Statutory information Board members and Directors and officers liability insurance The names and biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board as at the year end can be found on pages 31 to 33.
During the year under review, the Company purchased and maintained Directors' and officers' liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
Additionally, the Company has specific Public Offering of Securities Insurance, which commenced on 24 February 2015 with a five-year run-off period.
Save for such indemnity provisions in the Companys Articles of Association, there are no qualifying third-party indemnity provisions in force.
The Board considers that, following recent performance evaluations, all of the current Directors contribute effectively and have the skills and experience relevant to the future leadership and direction of the Company.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders that each of the Directors is re-elected at the forthcoming AGM.
Status of the Company The Company was incorporated in England & Wales on 26 January 2015 and started trading on 21 April 2015, immediately upon the Companys listing.
It is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs approved the Company as an investment trust upon its listing.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so that it is able to maintain its status as an investment trust.
The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the provisions of Section 439 of the CTA and has no employees.
Internal controls and risk management The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk on behalf of the Company.
Further details of the Companys principal risks can be found on pages 26 and 27 and internal controls can be found on page 48.
Share capital voting and dividend As at 31 December 2018, the Company had 827,000,000 ordinary shares in issue.
There are no other classes of shares in issue and no shares are held in treasury.
At the last AGM, the Board was granted authority to allot ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 827,000, representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Subsequent to the year end, on 6 March 2019 the Company issued 81,639,238 ordinary shares under this authority.
The Directors are seeking to renew this authority, which will expire at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 16 May 2019.
The ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and have one voting right per ordinary share.
There are no shares that carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
The shares are freely transferable.
There are no restrictions or agreements between shareholders on the voting rights of any of the ordinary shares or the transfer of shares.
The Company does not have a fixed life nor is the Company subject to a continuation vote as can sometimes be required of investment companies in accordance with their Articles of Association.
Each share ranks equally for any distribution made on a winding up.
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
Substantial share interests During the year to 31 December 2018, the Company received notification in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the following interests in three per cent or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage of Date notified shares lending total voting rights BlackRock, Inc 92,613,889 7,425,685 12.09% 24 December 2018 Following the year end, the Company received the following notification: Holder Ordinary Securities Percentage of Date notified shares lending total voting rights BlackRock, Inc 89,954,248 10,646,142 11.07% 15 March 2019 Woodford Investment Management Ltd 81,639,238 N A 8.98% 7 March 2019 Securities lending is the act of loaning a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm.
Interest held in funds where Woodford Investment Management Limited is the fund manager.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 41 Statutory information CONTINUED Independent auditor may not be renewed, although it considers this event unlikely.
The Companys independent auditor, Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Nevertheless, alternative options the Board would pursue in the Thornton, has expressed willingness to continue to act as the event of non-renewal include instituting a new facility and repaying Companys auditor for the forthcoming financial year.
The Audit the loan obligation through the liquidation of quoted and certain Committee has carefully considered the auditors re-appointment, as unquoted assets if required.
required in accordance with its Terms of Reference, and, having regard to its effectiveness and the services it has provided to the The Board has given careful consideration to the Companys Company during the period under review, has recommended to estimated annual expenditure on operating costs, the Companys the Board that the independent auditor be re-appointed at the risks and internal controls, the Companys asset allocation and forthcoming AGM.
Resolutions are therefore to be proposed for its diversification, portfolio risk, financial controls, and the restrictions re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to agree its set to the Companys level of gearing.
Following the Boards detailed remuneration for the forthcoming financial year.
In reaching its analysis, it has concluded that there is a reasonable expectation decision, the Audit Committee considered the points detailed on that the Company will be able to continue to operate and to meet page 51 of the Audit Committees report.
its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period to 31 December 2023.
Audit information As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors Management and administration who held office at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as Company Secretary they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Link Company Matters Limited the Company Secretary is the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps corporate Company Secretary of the Company on the basis of a fee required of a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit of 59,770 per annum exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket expenses information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of plus any additional ad hoc expenses that may fall outside the scope that information.
of their agreement that are normally charged on a time-spent basis unless otherwise agreed with the Board.
The company secretarial agreement can be terminated by either party by providing six months Articles of Association written notice.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
Administrator Global greenhouse gas emissions for the period from 1 January Northern Trust Global Services SE the administrator, a company 2018 to 31 December 2018 authorised and regulated by the FCA, has been appointed as the The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its administrator of the Company.
The administrator is responsible for the operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissionsCompanys general administrative functions, such as the calculation producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report of the NAV and maintenance of the Companys accounting records.
The fee payable to the administrator is based on the Companys net assets.
The fees for the period under review equated to 0.02 per cent Going concern of the Companys net assets exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern expenses.
The administration agreement can be terminated by either basis.
Having had regard to the Companys projected income and party by providing six months written notice.
expenses, the Directors consider that going concern is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the AIFM Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Link Fund Solutions Limited, a UK-based company authorised and existence for at least the next 12-month period.
The Directors shall regulated by the FCA, has been appointed as the Companys AIFM continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing for the purposes of the AIFMD.
The AIFM monitors the Portfolio the financial statements.
Manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys assets are valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant Viability statement regulations and guidance.
The fees payable to the AIFM are on a In accordance with Principle 21 of the AIC Code of Corporate sliding scale, based on the Companys proportion of Woodford Governance, published in July 2016, and provision C. 2.2 of the UK Investment Management Limiteds gross assets.
Throughout the Corporate Governance Code, published by the FRC in April 2016, period, the fees payable were based on 0.01 per cent of the the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the Companys total assets.
The AIFM agreement can be terminated five-year period to 31 December 2023.
The Directors consider that by either party providing three months written notice.
a period of at least five years is required to assess the viability of an investment company that holds predominantly young unquoted or Portfolio Manager  companies, as they believe this to be a The Companys Portfolio Manager is Woodford Investment reasonable period of time for such young companies to make Management Limited, an investment management firm authorised meaningful progress on the journey towards fulfilling their long-term and regulated by the FCA.
Neil Woodford has primary responsibility potential.
In its assessment of the viability of the Company, the for management of the Companys portfolio.
Further details of how the Directors have considered each of the Companys principal risks Portfolio Manager is remunerated can be found in note 4 on pages and uncertainties detailed on pages 26 and 27 and in particular the 68 and 69.
The Portfolio Managers agreement may be terminated impact of the total collapse of one or more of the Companys by the AIFM or the Portfolio Manager providing three months significant holdings.
The Board has considered the Companys likely written notice.
The Board is mindful that the loan facility 42 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Depositary Resolutions relating to the following items of business will also be The Companys depositary is Northern Trust Global Services SE proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the depositary, a company authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and regulated by the FCA and PRA.
The Resolution 11: authority to allot shares Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the depositary provides Resolution 11 set out in the Notice of AGM is an ordinary resolution custody services to the Company.
In addition to safekeeping of and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot up to 90,863,923 custodial assets, the depositary is responsible for verifying asset ordinary shares of 1p each with a nominal value of 908,639 or 10 ownership of all other assets, together with the collection of income, per cent of the Companys shares in issue at the date at which this and to oversee that the Company is run in accordance with the FCAs resolution is passed, which will replace the current authority granted Investment Funds Sourcebook.
The fee payable to the depositary is to the Directors at the last AGM.
This authority will expire at the AGM based on the Companys net assets.
The fees throughout the period to be held in 2020 when a resolution to renew the authority will under review equated to 0.01 per cent of the first 10 billion of the be proposed.
Companys net assets exclusive of VAT and out-of-pocket expenses and a fee of 0.0075 per cent on all assets over 10 billion.
The The shares will only be issued at NAV or at a premium to NAV at the depositary agreement can be terminated by either party by providing time of issue and at a time when the Directors believe it to be in the six months written notice.
best interest of the Companys shareholders.
Continuing appointment of the AIFM and Portfolio Manager Resolution 12: authority to disapply pre-emption rights The Board keeps the performance of the AIFM under continual Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution review.
As the AIFM has delegated the investment management and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot up to 90,863,923 function to Woodford Investment Management Limited, the ordinary shares of 1p each, with a total nominal value of 908,639 or performance of the Portfolio Manager is also regularly reviewed.
10 per cent of the Companys shares in issue at the date at which this The Board, through delegation to the Management Engagement resolution is passed, for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis, which will Committee, has considered the performance of the AIFM and the replace the current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the This authority will expire at the AGM to be held in 2020 when a continuing appointment of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager on the resolution to renew the authority will be proposed.
terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The remuneration of the AIFM is fair both in absolute terms and compared The Directors intend to use this authority at a time when they believe to that of managers of comparable investment companies.
The it to be in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole and to Directors believe that by paying the portfolio management fee as a satisfy demand for the Companys shares.
The shares will only be percentage of excess returns over a cumulative 10 per cent per annum issued at NAV or at a premium to NAV at the time of issue.
hurdle rate, subject to a high watermark, the interests of the Portfolio Manager are more closely aligned with those of shareholders.
Resolution 13: authority to buy back shares Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution Change of control and will, if passed, authorise the Directors to buy back up to There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might 136,205,021 ordinary shares of 1p each, with a nominal value of be affected by a change of control of the Company.
1,362,050, or 14.99 per cent of the Companys shares in issue, at the date at which this resolution is passed, which will replace the Post year-end events current authority granted to the Directors at the last AGM.
No shares Post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 24 on page 81 of the have been bought back under this authority.
The maximum price financial statements.
exclusive of expenses which may be paid by the Company in relation to any such purchase is the higher of: Regulatory disclosures information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 i five per cent above the average of the mid-market value of shares The Company has nothing to disclose in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4. for the five business days before the day of purchase: or ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the AGM highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday, 16 May at 10.30am.
Shareholders are being asked to vote on various items of The minimum price that may be paid is 1p per share, being the nominal business, being: price per share.
The decision as to whether to buy back any ordinary shares will be at the discretion of the Board.
Ordinary shares bought the receipt and adoption of the Company's annual financial back in accordance with the authority granted to the Board will either statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, together with be held in treasury or cancelled.
If the shares are held in treasury, they the strategic report, Directors' report and the auditor's report on may be reissued from treasury but will only be reissued at a price that those financial statements: is in excess of the Companys then prevailing NAV.
The Company will the receipt and approval of the Directors' remuneration report: fund any buyback by using the Companys cash resources or utilising approval of the Directors remuneration policy: the Companys loan facility.
This authority will expire at the AGM to be the re-election of Directors: and held in 2020 when a resolution to renew the authority will be proposed.
the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor and the authorisation of the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 43 Statutory information CONTINUED Resolution 14: notice period for general meetings Resolution 14 set out in the Notice of AGM is a special resolution and will, if passed, allow the Company to hold general meetings other than annual general meetings on a minimum notice period of 14 clear days, rather than 21 clear days as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM to be held in 2020.
The Directors will only call general meetings on 14 clear days notice when they consider it to be in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and will only do so if the Company offers facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The full text of the resolutions being proposed at the AGM can be found on pages 90 and 91.
The Board considers that all of the resolutions described above and disclosed on pages 90 and 91 are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders and are likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Board and Portfolio Manager recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By order of the Board Link Company Matters Limited Company Secretary 4 April 2019 44 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
