Investment team Paul Lamacraft Saku Saha An experienced finance industry professional, Paul began his Sakus previous role was as analyst and investment director career at Ernst & Young now EY and his most recent role, prior for the Invesco Perpetual UK Equities team.
In this role, he was to joining Woodford, was as a fund manager on the UK Equities responsible for analysing investment opportunities and team at Invesco Perpetual.
His private equity and corporate assisting Neil Woodford, with a specific focus on early-stage finance background provides our team with invaluable expertise.
His many years at a senior level in Paul is focused on comprehensive and diligent analysis of the British Army, stationed at home and abroad, have equipped fundamentals to deliver positive long-term outcomes and has him with exceptional discipline and rigour in his analysis and a particular specialism in the early-stage and early-growth interpretation of market intelligence.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 35 Investment team CONTINUED Stephen Lamacraft Lucinda Crabtree For the six years prior to joining Woodford, Stephen made his Lucinda brings invaluable expertise and knowledge to the mark at Invesco Perpetual as a UK fund manager.
Over the past decade, she has for 120m of assets, his strategy focused on fundamental worked in various analyst roles covering the pharmaceutical analysis, an approach inspired by his mentor and colleague and biotechnology sectors at a number of investment banks, Neil Woodford.
An intensely competitive addition to the including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan.
Lucinda also has Woodford team, Stephen is highly focused on performance significant experience working within the industry itself, having and has a naturally challenging mind that endeavours to worked at AstraZeneca and Grnenthal Group.
Lucinda enhance the businesss collective understanding of graduated from University College, London in 2004, with a investment opportunities.
He has a particular focus on the BSc first class in Physiology and Pharmacology and a PhD mature, blue-chip elements of the portfolio.
36 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Harry Raikes Alex Correia Harry joined Woodford as an early-stage investment analyst Alex Correia joined Woodford in 2017 as an investment analyst, in 2015 from Envestors, an FCA-regulated corporate finance with a particular focus on the constituents of the FTSE 350 adviser, where he evaluated business proposals and conducted index and other mature international businesses.
Alex graduated due diligence research for high-growth unquoted companies from the London School of Economics in 2014 and spent the seeking up to 10m in equity funding.
While studying for a BSc first three years of his career with City Financial, initially as an in Economics and Finance at Bristol University, Harry completed M&A analyst and then on American research desk focusing internships at Kite Lake Capital and Fidelity Biosciences on the consumer, technology and resource sectors.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 37 Investment team CONTINUED Grant Wentzel Dominic Eccles Grant has held a number of significant roles including senior Dominic began his career in financial services in 2008 when vice president at JPMorgan London and director at Lehman he joined the customer service team at Aviva.
Client service Brothers London and Tokyo.
Before joining Woodford in May and asset control administration roles at Transact followed 2014, he had been a director at Barclays London for five years.
and in 2010 Dominic secured his first analyst role with MF Grant is an exceptionally experienced trader, dedicated to Global.
In 2012, he joined Legal & General as an investment making sure the fund management team can execute its support analyst and in 2013 he was appointed lead operations investment strategy successfully.
analyst at BP Investment Management.
38 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc The Directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018.
