Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Appointment and powers of Directors other than certain restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Group is Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put up for appointment at the next AGM.
Other disclosures Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to The Group is not party to any significant arrangements which take effect, such direction as may be given by the Group in general meeting by special alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a resolution, the business of the Group shall be managed by the Directors, takeover bid.
who may exercise all powers of the Group which are not required to be The Group does not have any employee share schemes where the shares exercised by the Group in general meeting.
to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the Articles of Association Group which are not exercisable by employees.
The Groups Articles of Association may only be amended by a special Equal opportunities for all resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Integral to a high performing culture is the concept of equal opportunity Share capital and inclusion for all colleagues, which we promote through an environment free from discrimination, harassment and victimisation.
The authorised and called-up share capital of the Group, together We believe that everyones efforts are worthwhile and offer all colleagues with details of shares allotted and cancelled during the year, are shown regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, gender including in note 6.5 of the Group financial statements.
gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, disability, At the AGM of the Group held in June 2017, a special resolution was religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade union membership the passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June 2016 for the opportunity to be their best, using their individual talents and abilities.
purchase by the Group of up to 233,561,903 ordinary shares, representing This includes applications for employment made by people with disabilities, approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at that time.
which are given full and fair consideration.
Respect underpins our behaviour During the period, 20,279,315 2017: 381,043 ordinary shares were issued towards all disabled candidates, as well as colleagues who have a disability to employees exercising share options and 2,584,182 2017: 2,733,049 or become disabled in any way during the course of their employment.
out of the Groups trust shares.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and we will make reasonable adjustments to the selection process, work environment or Share capital and rights attaching to the Groups shares practices in order to help people with disabilities.
With a heightened Under the Groups Articles of Association, any share in the Group may awareness of the impact of mental health on society we are a more mindful be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, than ever that not all disabilities can be seen and therefore ensure the same voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Group may from time-torespect and support is provided to those candidates or colleagues whose time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such disabilities are not visible.
determination, as the Directors may determine.
All candidates and colleagues are treated equally in respect of At a general meeting of the Group, every member has one vote on recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The decisions we make are based on relevant merits and of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either abilities, with decisions made free from bias.
by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at It is also a priority that we remain receptive to the needs of our customers a general meeting.
and the wider communities by providing the same level of respect and No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend taking an inclusive approach respect.
or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise Health and safety policy any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers and visitors to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares to its premises.
In order to achieve this, a comprehensive health and and they or any interested person failed to supply the Group safety manual is in place for each division of the Group and subsidiary with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that companies within the Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect policy and procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe working registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Group practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups health and of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information safety policy is approved by the Executive Committee.
required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
Health and safety improvement plans are in place for each division which The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not are monitored to ensure continuous improvement in performance a fully paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way and practice.
which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as preventing dealings in By order of the Board the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer Jonathan Burke of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Group is not Company Secretary aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Group 13 March 2018 53
