Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Investment Committee Role of the Investment Committee Review and approve disposals and acquisitions of investment The property assets which will also be approved by the Board: Workspace Advantage in particular, those with a value of more than 2m.
Approve and monitor asset management initiatives greater Remuneration than 0.1m.
Approve and monitor progress on all refurbishment and Helping to deliver redevelopment projects to ensure they are progressing in line The Workspace Advantage: with budget and are on target to meet completion dates.
Review and approve additional business development projects.
Owning and investing in the right assets is key to delivering The Composition of the Committee Workspace Advantage for our Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer.
customers and enhancing the Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer.
value of our portfolio for Chris Pieroni, Operations Director.
John Robson, Asset Management Director.
Richard Swayne, Head of Investment.
Clare Marland, Head of Corporate Communications.
Jamie Hopkins Mike Webber, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis.
Chairman of the Simon Webb, Head of Professional Services.
Investment Committee Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary Secretary to the Investment Committee The Investment Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins.
The Remuneration Brickfields, Hoxton E2 8HD Policy rewards Activities in 2017 18 Opening 2019 Signed off significant refurbishment and redevelopment activity, Located in trendy Hoxton, just including monitoring progress of ongoing projects, such as performance in up the road from Shoreditch.
Brickfields in Hoxton and China Works on the South Bank.
Wrapped around a central atrium to allow natural light to Approved the acquisitions of the Centro estate in Camden in keeping with the flood the space.
Complete with January and April 2018 for a total of 185m, and The Salisbury, an on-site caf, stylish meeting located in Finsbury Circus, for 158.7m.
successful delivery Agreed the disposals of Stratford Office Village in September 2017 for 14m and Zennor Road Industrial Estate, in Balham, in August 2017 for 30m.
Received updates from the development team on planning consents awarded for a major refurbishment scheme at The Shaftesbury Centre, in Ladbroke Grove and for a mixed use development scheme at The Chocolate Factory and Parma House, Wood Green, Haringey N22.
Maria Moloney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree the overall remuneration principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management team.
20 The Investment Committee met 20 times during the year ended 31 March 2018 112Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
