Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions Going Concern and Viability Statement continued Going Concern The key assumptions To mitigate this risk, the Group a The Groups strategic review Risk category: Risk category: The Groups activities, strategy underpinning the plan are: continually reviews funding covers a five-year period.
and performance are explained Conservative growth in pricing requirements and maintains a b O ur current project pipeline 10.
Cyber security in the Strategic Report on pages with stable occupancy levels close relationship with existing spans five years.
This covers 3 to 71. for the like-for-like properties.
and potential funding partners to the time for the currently Principal risk: Principal risk: Refurbishment and ensure the continuing availability planned major refurbishments Changes in the political, infrastructure and Loss of data or income due to cyber security attack Further detail on the financial of debt finance.
Also, the redevelopment schemes are and redevelopments to performance and financial delivered in line with current maturity of debt facilities is progress from initiation to environmental dynamics of London lead to reduced on our business and on that of our customers.
position of the Group is provided spread over a number of years plans and reach stabilised completion.
in the financial statements on occupancy levels within one to avoid a concentration of risk c The average period to maturity pages 140 to 178. in one period and gearing is to two years at current of the Groups committed Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact market-based pricing levels.
relatively low with LTV of 23% facilities is 5.5 years.
Impact on demand for space Loss of critical data.
The Directors, having made as at year end.
The Retail Bond, which if London adversely affected Financial loss due to fraud.
appropriate enquiries, have a becomes repayable in The conclusion of these Impact by a major incident.
Impact Reputational damage reasonable expectation that the There are a number of mitigating October 2019 and revolver sensitivity analyses is that the High High amongst customers.
Group and the Company have bank facilities of 150m, which factors that were not considered Group would have adequate Mitigation Potential loss of income.
adequate resources and in the scenarios tested but which become repayable in June means to maintain headroom Probability post-mitigation Having been based within Probability post-mitigation sufficient headroom on the 2022, can be extended on could be actioned: in its facilities and covenants Unlikely London for over 30 years, Unlikely Mitigation Groups bank loan facilities Disposal of assets.
to continue operations for the we have a deep knowledge Monitoring information on to continue in operational Reduction in dividend.
On this Change from last year of our markets and locations.
Change from last year security threats and targets.
For this reason, Reduction in refurbishment The Groups strategy and basis, the Directors have a No change No change the Directors believe that it is business model are described programme.
reasonable expectation that the We regularly monitor the Monitoring guidance and best appropriate to continue to adopt on pages 16 and 28.
Group will be able to continue in Risk appetite London economy and Risk appetite practice issued by Government the Going Concern basis in The Board conducted this operation and meet its liabilities Medium commission research reports.
review for the five-year period to The Board has considered the as they fall due over the five-year We also hold regular meetings key risks and mitigating factors 31 March 2023, which was selected period stated above.
with the GLA and the councils Review of IT systems and Viability Statement for the following reasons: that could impact the Group, in the London boroughs in which infrastructure in place to ensure In accordance with provision details of which can be found on we operate to ensure that we are these are as robust as possible.
C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the pages 46 to 56.
Those risks that Link to strategy Right aware of any changes coming Link to strategy Right market market Risk sensitivity analyses Right Right Right Right Code, the Board has assessed the could have an impact on the Right markets.
brand properties through ahead of time.
brand properties Risk management in action The The Workspace Workspace Advantage Advantage prospects of the Group taking ongoing success of the Groups Right properties.
Right Right Cyber security and the safety people customers people customers account of the current position strategy were identified and the Specific risk Risk category Sensitivity analysis Right customers.
Risk management in action Right brand.
and security of our systems and and principal risks of the business.
resilience of the Group to the With the ongoing uncertainty data remains key for us.
This area A decline in demand Valuation.
Reductions in pricing impact of these risks in severe in the political and economic is more of a challenge due to the for space which Customer.
and occupancy as Link to KPIs Link to KPIs The assessment is based on the yet plausible scenarios has environment on the back of the constant evolution of technology impacts on occupancy London.
Groups Strategic Review which been evaluated.
EU Referendum, it is important and the risks which are posed.
the last recession over interest.
is performed on an annual basis that we remain vigilant to any a two-year period.
by the Board and Executive Sensitivity analyses are prepared potential issues or impacts that Work has been undertaken 6.
The Strategic to understand the impact of the Changes in the Valuation.
Expansion in yields we foresee.
We have yet to see by the Head of I. T. Operations 7.
Review includes a debate of the identified risks on solvency and London real estate London.
as experienced during any specific impact on our to map out risks and controls in 9.
Groups strategy and business liquidity.
The specific risks which environment which the last recession over business, but we continue to much greater depth.
Staff have model, which are central to were evaluated are shown in the impact on commercial a two-year period.
monitor our key performance also been required to complete understanding the future table on the right.
indicators each month so that a detailed cyber security training prospects of the business and we could quickly react to any module with ongoing training Terrorist events in London.
Reduction of 10% a review of the Groups five-year The Group benefits from having trends identified.
We also ensure and workshops planned.
London impacting Business in pricing and plan.
Particular attention is given thousands of customers spread we have adequate financing on the infrastructure interruption.
10% reduction in to existing development and across 66 locations in London.
arrangements in place from a and attractiveness of occupancy within one redevelopment commitments, These customers are in a wide variety of sources and a spread London as a global year and expansion in long-term financing arrangements, range of sectors with no sector of maturity dates, and undertake centre for business yields as experienced compliance with financing and representing more than 10% of a five-year plan with some and culture.
during the last REIT covenants and existing total rent roll and no individual scenario testing.
customer representing more one-year period.
For this Changes in the Financing.
Inability to refinance The latest strategy day was held reason, the highest risk to the in September 2018 and reviewed economic and debt facilities falling Group is an event or series of UK regulatory due in the five-year the detailed business plan for the events that would impact on five years to 2022.
The plan was environment period.
the London economy and impacting on the updated in April 2018 to extend property market.
it to 2023 and to include the availability and pricing of debt.
This plan was Of the scenarios tested, the most reviewed at the Audit Committee significant impact would be to Changes in the Valuation.
Reduction in cash meeting on 30 May 2018. the level of available facilities London residential Development.
proceeds from resulting from an inability to market which impacts London.
non-contracted The business plan is underpinned refinance existing facilities.
on ability to realise redevelopment by a detailed financial model cash proceeds at schemes.
based on assumptions around redevelopment the key drivers of revenue, profit, schemes.
capital expenditure and cash flow.
56Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5 I LOVE SPINNING PLATES 58Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information H Ho ow R w Ro os sh hi K i Kl la ai ir r h he el lp ps u s us d s fide el li iv five er T r Th he e W Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce Ad e Adva van nt ta ag ge e I a I am a m allw wa ay ys o s on t n th he m e mo ov five e.. W Wiit th 2 h 23 p 3 pr ro op pe er rt tiie es t s to m o ma an na age ge, I s I sp pe en nd m d my d y da ay ys v s viis siit tiin ng s g siit te es s a alll o l ov five er L r Lo ond ndo on n, c, ch ha at tt tiin ng t g to o c ce en nt tr re m e ma an na age ger rs a s ab bou out n t ne ew w c cu us st to om me er rs m s mo ov viin ng i g in o n or t r to ou o our r F Fac aciilliit tiie es T s Te ec ch hn niic ciia an ns a s ab bou out t a an ny i y is ss sue ues o s on s n siit te e.. T Th he er re es a l s a lo ot o t on m n my p y plla at te b e bu ut t iit ts w s wo or rt th i h it w t wh he en I s n I se ee h e ha ap pp py y c cu us st to om me er rs u s us siin ng ou g our s r sp pac ace e.. R Ro osh shi i Kl Kla ai ir r A As ss se et M t Ma an na ag ge er a r at t W Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce e, p, piic ct tu ur re ed i d in n t th he n e ne ew wlly r y re ef fu ur rb biis sh he ed d c ca af fe e, G, Gr ra an nd dp pa J a Jo oe es s, a, at t T Th he C e Ch ho oc co olla at te F e Fa ac ct to or ry y iin W n Wo oo od G d Gr re ee en n.. T To r o re ea ad a c d a co om mp pr re eh he en ns siiv five e r re ev viie ew o w of e f ev five er ry yt th hiin ng g w we h e ha av five d e do on ne i e in 2 n 20 01 18 8 g go t o to p o pa ag ge es 6 s 62 t 2 to 7 o 71 1.. 58Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 60 60 61Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
