Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maximising our advantage Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions Super connected: Aligning risks and strategy O Ou ur s r st tr rat ateg egi ic p c pr rio ior ri it ti ie es s Delivering The In order to deliver our strategy and The Workspace Advantage R Rig igh ht t m ma ark rke et t R Riig gh ht p t pr ro op pe er rt tiie es s R Riig gh ht c t cu us st to om me er rs s R Riig gh ht t p peo eopl ple e R Riig gh ht b t br ra an nd d Workspace Advantage throughout the business we must ensure that we maintain a balance W We o e op pe er ra at te w e wiit th hiin n W We d e fide elliiv five er c r ca ap piit ta all O Ou ur c r cu us st to om me er rs s W We n e ne ee ed t d th he e W We w e wo or rk h k ha ar rd t d to o requires all parts of between safeguarding against potential risks and taking advantage t th he L e Lo on nd do on m n ma ar rk ke et t a an nd i d in nc co om me g e gr ro ow wt th h a ar re a e at t t th he h e he ea ar rt t r riig gh ht p t pe eo op plle a e an nd d e en ns su ur re o e ou ur b r br ra an nd d of all potential opportunities.
w wh hiic ch c h co on nt tiin nu ue es t s to o b by u y up pg gr ra ad diin ng a g an nd d o of e f ev five er ry yt th hiin ng g e ex xp pe er rt tiis se t e to d o fide elliiv five er r iis r s re efl fle ec ct tiiv five o e of o f ou ur r our business to work b be a r e a re es siilliie en nt a t an nd d a ac cq qu uiir riin ng t g th he r e riig gh ht t w we d e do a o an nd w d we e o ou ur s r st tr ra at te eg gy y.. p pr ro od du uc ct t, o, ou ur r together.
v viib br ra an nt m t ma ar rk ke et i t in n p pr ro op pe er rt tiie es i s in n ar are e c comm ommiit tt te ed d c cu us st to om me er rs a s an nd d w wh hiic ch t h to o o op pe er ra at te e.. dy dyn na am mic ic llo oc ca at tio ion ns s.. t to p o pr ro ov viid diin ng t g th he em m o ou ur c r cu ullt tu ur re e..
In isolation risk mitigation helps w wiit th a b h a be es st t- -iin n- - us manage specific subjects and Risk categories cl cla as ss s s se er rvi vice ce.. areas of the business.
However, when brought into our day-today activities successful risk R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : management has helped us 1 1.
F. Fiin na an nc ciin ng g R Re ed du uc ce ed a d av va aiilla ab biilliit ty o y of fi f fin na an nc ciin ng o g op pt tiio on ns r s re es su ullt tiin ng i g in i n in na ab biilliit ty y M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n maximise our advantage in 2018. t to m o me ee et b t bu us siin ne es ss p s plla an ns o s or s r sa at tiis sf fy l y liia ab biilliit tiie es s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 50 0 Market understanding Monitoring the fundamentals R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : of the London market helped 2 2.
V. Va allu ua at tiio on n V Va allu ue o e of o f ou ur p r pr ro op pe er rt tiie es d s fide ec clliin niin ng a g as a r s a re es su ullt o t of e f ex xt te er rn na al m l ma ar rk ke et t M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n us spot opportunities as well as o or i r in nt te er rn na al m l ma an na ag ge em me en nt f t fa ac ct to or rs s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 50 0 assess what our customers want.
Property acquisition R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : In 2018 risk mitigation helped us 3 3.
C. Cu us st to om me er d r fide em ma an nd d D fide em ma an nd fo d for o r ou ur a r ac cc co om mm mo od da at tiio on d n fide ec clliin niin ng a g as a r s a re es su ullt o t of s f so oc ciia all, M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n assess the right opportunities e ec co on no om miic o c or c r co om mp pe et tiit tiiv five f e fa ac ct to or rs s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 51 1 where we knew we could deliver our unique customer offer.
R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : Development 4 4.. fide Dev five ello opme pmen nt t C Co os st i t in nfl fla at tiio on a n an nd t d tiim miin ng d g fide ella ays ys.. M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n We successfully guarded against o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 52 2 negative reputational impact on nine ongoing refurbishments R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : where we were investing to 5 5..
I In nv five estm stme en nt t U Un nd fide er rp pe er rfo for rm ma an nc ce d e du ue t e to i o in na ap pp pr ro op pr riia at te s e st tr ra at te eg gy o y on a n ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on ns s M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n deliver The Workspace a an nd d d diis sp po os sa alls s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 53 3 Advantage.
R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : Understanding and 6 6.
B. Br ra an nd a d an nd r d re ep pu ut ta at tiio on n F Fa aiillu ur re t e to m o me ee et c t cu us st to om me er a r an nd e d ex xt te er rn na al s l st ta ak ke eh ho olld fide er e r ex xp pe ec ct ta at tiio on ns s.. M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n responding to market trends o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 53 3 page 8 A business model designed R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : to create long-term value 7 7.
R. Re eg gu ulla at to or ry y T Th he i e in nt tr ro od du uc ct tiio on o n of n f ne ew r w re eq qu uiir re em me en nt ts t s th ha at i t in nh hiib biit a t ac ct tiiv viit ty y. F. Fa aiillu ur re e M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n page 16 t to m o me ee et r t re eg gu ulla at to or ry r y re eq qu uiir re em me en nt ts l s le ea ad diin ng t g to fi o fin ne es o s or t r ta ax p x pe en na allt tiie es s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 54 4 A focus on Doing the Right Thing helps us to manage our resources and relationships R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : page 22 8 8.
B. Bu us siin ne es ss i s in nt te er rr ru up pt tiio on n M Ma ajjo or e r ev five en nt ts m s me ea an t n th ha at W t Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce i e is u s un na ab blle t e to c o ca ar rr ry o y ou ut i t it ts s M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n Chief Executives strategic b bu us siin ne es ss fo s for a s r a su us st ta aiin ne ed p d pe er riio od d.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 54 4 review page 28 Business review page 62 Our governance page 72 R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : 9 9.
R. Re es so ou ur rc ciin ng g F Fa aiillu ur re t e to p o pr ro og gr re es ss w s wiit th s h st tr ra at te eg gy d y du ue t e to i o in na ab biilliit ty t y to r o re ec cr ru uiit a t an nd d M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n r re et ta aiin c n co or rr re ec ct s t st ta aff ff.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 55 5 R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : 1 10 0.. L Lon ondon don C Ch ha an ng ge es i s in t n th he p e po olliit tiic ca all, i, in nf fr ra as st tr ru uc ct tu ur re a e an nd e d en nv viir ro on nm me en nt ta al d l dy yn na am miic cs s M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n o of L f Lo on nd do on l n le ea ad t d to r o re ed du uc ce ed d d fide em ma an nd f d fr ro om o m ou ur c r cu us st to om me er rs s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 56 6 R Ri is sk c k ca at te eg go or ry y: : P Pr ri in nc ci ip pa al r l ri is sk k: : 1 11 1.
C. Cy yb be er s r se ec cu ur riit ty y L Lo os ss o s of d f da at ta o a or i r in nc co om me d e du ue t e to c o cy yb be er s r se ec cu ur riit ty a y at tt ta ac ck o k on o n ou ur r M Mo or re i e in nfo for rm ma at tiio on n b bu us siin ne es ss a s an nd o d on t n th ha at o t of o f ou ur c r cu us st to om me er rs s.. o on p n pa ag ge 5 e 56 6 46Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information External audit Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions continued Whilst our strategy remains We are fortunate to have Risk Management Structure Overall, we review risks from Activities in 2017 18 Our Risk Management Structure broadly unchanged, 2017 18 created a positive culture within We have an established Risk two angles: has been an exciting year Workspace which encourages Management Structure in place Board and Audit Committee with us undertaking significant open communication and to help us capture, document 1.
Principal Business Strategic 1 2 acquisition activity and engagement.
This enables staff and manage risks facing our Risks accelerating our capital from all areas of the business business.
We monitor this These are risks which impact We have undertaken extensive We have undertaken a variety of Executive Committee expenditure on a number of to feel free to raise risks or structure to ensure it is achievement of our strategy review of Data Protection to internal audits of our properties large refurbishment and asset opportunities, no matter how appropriate for our company and objectives.
ensure all staff are fully aware covering financial, operational, management schemes.
We have small, to their managers and size, culture and business model.
They are identified, assessed of GDPR legislation and health and safety and facilities also continued to reshape the teams.
Having this culture helps and managed by the requirements.
We have also management issues.
This review portfolio with the sale of some ensure that information is Our aim is to manage each Executive Committee.
created a specific Data process also helps strengthen industrial centres.
Taking communicated across the of our risks and mitigate them Strategic risks are ultimately First line Second line Third line Protection Risk register to fully communication with our staff advantage of opportunities business well.
so that they fall within the risk owned by the Board.
understand our risk exposure out on-site.
of defence of defence of defence but ensuring we are considering appetite level we are prepared The Board and the Audit and document the controls Management Financial control.
Ongoing review the risks related to these Risks are considered at every level to tolerate for each risk area.
Committee receive regular we have in place to mitigate controls.
and audit by opportunities is key, and we aim of the business including when updates on these Principal these risks.
Policy and Risk Risk Committee.
to do this as part of our business approving corporate transactions, The Risk Management Structure Risks three times a year.
activity rather than as a property acquisitions and is underpinned by close working The Board is satisfied that we Quality control.
disposals and whenever relationships between the continue to operate within our Areas of focus for 2018 19 Key undertaking refurbishment Executive Directors, Senior desired risk appetite for our We have a rolling plan of risk management objectives and over the Performance 2017 18 has also seen continued and redevelopment projects.
Management and other team Strategic Risks.
coming year plan the following activities: Indicators.
change and uncertainty within members, which enhances Compliance.
the political and economic The Executive Committee our ability to efficiently capture, Our Strategic Risks are shown 1 2 environment and there remains meets weekly to discuss key communicate and action any in the heat map and in detail some uncertainty over the performance measures and Continuing to ensure we are Implementing risk management risk issues identified.
on pages 50 to 56. outcome of the EU Referendum.
any change in these, meaning safeguarded with regard to software to help effectively Current assessment of Principal Business Risks We havent seen or assessed any they are ideally placed to notice cyber security and that we are capture findings from our We have a Risk Committee, 2.
Operational risks direct impact of this environment any concerning changes or keeping aware of risks and internal property site reviews, which meets regularly and has These are lower level risks on our business, but are early warnings.
issues in this area changing as third party audits and detailed responsibility for co-ordinating covering day-to-day continuing to ensure we are technology changes.
We are information to show our key risk management activities processes and procedures closely reviewing Key Further information on our KPIs progressing with a detailed controls are operating.
Performance Indicators and can be found on pages 35 to 40. review and updating of our prepares regular reports to the These cover all areas of the our forecast to detect any issues.
IT risks as this is a rapidly Board and Audit Committee.
business, such as Finance, We continue to ensure low levels Risk appetite evolving area.
Operations, Investment of gearing and active cash and Risk appetite reflects the overall The Risk Committee comprises and Development.
level of risk acceptable with the Chief Executive Officer, These risks are assessed, 7 2 regards to our principal business the Operations Director and managed and owned by Risk culture risks.
The Board is responsible Company Secretary, alongside the Executive Committee.
Risk management continues for deciding the amount of risk the Head of Finance, the Head Day-to-day operational risks 4 to be an integral part of all it is willing to take.
of IT Operations and other Senior are closely reviewed and 9 5 3 our activities.
Risks and Managers and representatives managed by the Executive 7 11 10 6 1 opportunities are considered High risk, after considering from across the Company.
The Committee and Senior 8 in every business decision we the controls we have in place Risk Committee engages with Management.
It is embedded in our to mitigate risks, is not generally staff throughout the business Changes in operational risks culture to consider potential risks tolerated.
We work towards a and our small size helps to are reported to the Board of any new business decision.
medium to low risk profile, ensure good communication and Audit Committee 4 We focus on key risks which between each business area.
9 5 3 ensuring that we have mitigating 2 11 could impact on the actions in place to bring each In addition, frequent visits by 1 10 6 achievement of our strategic head office staff to our business risk down to within the agreed 8 goals and therefore on the risk appetite.
Currently all our centres help to ensure awareness Further details on the performance of our business.
and understanding of any Risk Committee can be principal strategic risks are subject to the same moderate property-specific risks and issues.
found in our Governance We also invite centre managers section on page 111. risk appetite.
to attend Risk Committee meetings on a rolling basis.
Insignicant Low Medium High Severe Impact Risk registers for all business Pre-mitigation 1 Financing areas are maintained and risks Post-mitigation 2 Valuation are assessed against a defined 3 Customer demand scoring mechanism to ensure 4 Development consistency.
5 Investment 6 Brand and reputation 7 Regulatory 8 Business interruption 9 Resourcing 10 London 11 Cyber security 48Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Probability Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions continued Laura Hamblett, Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: Assistant Centre Manager 1. Financing 2.
Customer demand at Clerkenwell Workshops.
Principal risk: Principal risk: Principal risk: Reduced availability of financing options resulting Value of our properties declining as a result of external Demand for our accommodation declining as a result in inability to meet business plans or satisfy liabilities.
market or internal management factors.
of social, economic or competitive factors.
Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Inability to fund business Covenants Loan to Value.
Fall in occupancy levels plans.
Impact Restricted ability to invest Impact Impact Falling rent roll and Severe in new opportunities.
Severe Mitigation Severe property valuation.
Market-related valuation risk Probability post-mitigation Negative reputational impact Probability post-mitigation is largely dependent on external Probability post-mitigation Mitigation Unlikely amongst lenders and in the Unlikely factors which we cannot Unlikely Every week the Executive investment community.
However, we continue Committee meet with Senior Change from last year Change from last year to do the following to ensure Change from last year Management to monitor No change Mitigation No change we are aware of any market No change occupancy levels, pricing, We regularly review funding changes, and are generating demand levels and reasons for Risk appetite requirements for business plans Risk appetite the maximum value from Risk appetite customers vacating.
This ensures Medium and ensure we have a wide Medium our portfolio: Medium we react quickly to changes in range of options to fund our Monitor the investment any of these indicators.
prepare a five-year business plan Monitor market yields Our extensive marketing which is reviewed and updated and pricing of property programme ensures that we are Link to strategy Right annually.
There is further detail Link to strategy Right transactions across the Link to strategy Right in control of our own customer market market market Right Right Right Right Right Right Right markets.
brand properties in the Viability Statement on Right markets.
brand properties leads and pipeline of deals.
The The The Workspace Workspace Workspace Advantage Advantage Advantage Right properties.
Right Right Alternative use opportunities Right properties.
Right Right We also utilise social media, Right Right people customers people customers people customers pursued across the portfolio Right customers.
backed up by a busy events We have a broad range of and continue to drive progress Right people.
programme which has further funding relationships in place made in achieving planning Right brand.
helped us to engage with Key metrics Link to KPIs and regularly review our consent for mixed-use customers.
us as we provide not only space 8.
Link to KPIs but also an opportunity to 5.
300m We also maintain a specific Risk management in action network with other businesses Key metrics interest rate profile via use of We have maintained a low LTV based in our portfolio.
200m new Private Placement Key metrics fixed interest rates and swap ratio, protecting us from any Notes and 100m of increased arrangements on our loan potential adverse changes We also stress test our business bank facility facilities so that our interest in the market.
plans to assess the sensitivity 5% payment profile is stable.
we could tolerate if demand 91.6% Increase in underlying During the year we have made from our customers reduced.
property valuation Like-for-like occupancy Risk management in action significant progress with our This can be found in the Viability 23% Having made plans to acquire programme of refurbishment Statement on page 57.
Loan to value remains several large buildings during works, enhancing the standard low after new acquisitions the year and continue with and desirability of our properties.
Risk management in action 12,189 our extensive number of We launched a second phase refurbishment schemes, it was of our successful Workspace Enquiries in the year imperative we continue to have Advantage campaign to raise good financing arrangements our brand awareness.
We always aim to have a variety of funding sources and We continue to liaise with 90% maturity dates.
In the summer our customers at each step of Customer advocacy score of 2017, we raised 200m of their journey with Workspace.
new Private Placement Notes We seek out their feedback and for eight and 10-year periods, comments on their experience helping us get the funding with Workspace, and utilise to action our acquisition and results to make changes refurbishment plans, alongside and improvements.
We also increased our bank We also continue to increase our facility by 100m.
social media presence, and have seen increasing popularity of our networking business events.
50Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions continued Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: 4.
Brand and reputation Principal risk: Principal risk: Principal risk: Cost inflation and timing delays.
Under performance due to inappropriate strategy Failure to meet customer and external stakeholder on acquisitions and disposals.
Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Failure to deliver expected Poor timing of disposals.
Damage to brand and returns on developments.
perception amongst Impact Cost overruns.
Impact Failure to achieve expected Impact customers and stakeholders.
High Delayed delivery of key High returns.
High Adverse publicity impacting projects.
Negative reputational impact on demand from new Probability post-mitigation Poor reputation amongst Probability post-mitigation amongst investors and Probability post-mitigation customers.
Unlikely contractors and customers Unlikely sell-side analysts.
Unlikely Worse reputation amongst if projects are delayed.
Change from last year Change from last year Mitigation Change from last year No change Mitigation No change We undertake regular No change Mitigation For every potential development monitoring of asset performance To ensure we understand Risk appetite scheme, we work hard to gain Risk appetite and positioning of our portfolio Risk appetite our customers and their Medium a thorough understanding of Medium with periodic detailed portfolio Medium everevolving requirements we the planning environment and reviews.
undertake twice-yearly customer ensure we seek counsel from surveys and have a system of appropriate advisers.
For each new acquisition real-time feedback in place.
we undertake thorough due We developed a customer Link to strategy Right We undertake a detailed Link to strategy Right diligence and detailed appraisals Link to strategy Right engagement plan to ensure market market market Right Right Right Right Right Right Right markets.
brand properties development analysis and Right markets.
brand properties prior to purchase.
brand properties we are interacting with our The The The Workspace Workspace Workspace Advantage Advantage Advantage Right properties.
Right Right appraisal prior to commencing Right properties.
Right Right customers in a variety of ways, people customers people customers people customers Right customers.
We also monitor acquisition Right brand.
including the use of social media.
Appraisals are presented for Right brand.
performance against target Right brand.
Investment Committee approval returns via the monthly We maintain regular Link to KPIs and sign-off is required for Board Pack.
communication with all Link to KPIs 5.
stakeholders and key Link to KPIs 3.
Property disposals are subject shareholders.
The Investment Committee to detailed review, appraisal presentations, roadshows and 8.
Key metrics reviews progress on and Board approval.
an annual Capital Markets Day.
refurbishments and Key metrics Key metrics redevelopments every fortnight Risk management in action Risk management in action against project timings and cost In the year we acquired The We launched a second phase 8.6% budgets both during and after Salisbury, a landmark building in of our successful Workspace Like-for-like rent roll growth the completion of a project.
This acquisition Advantage campaign to raise 6 368m was reviewed and analysed in our brand awareness.
Mixed-use redevelopment Acquisitions in financial year detail prior to exchange so that projects underway or any potential risks were taken The use of social media channels, contracted for sale into account.
Detailed such as Twitter, to engage with investment appraisals and due our customers continues to be 125m diligence work was undertaken.
very successful and helped to Following acquisition, monthly create business communities Proceeds from disposals reviews on performance against within our centres.
expectations have been provided to the Board.
Work ongoing at redevelopment site, Fuel Tank in Deptford.
52Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions continued Risk category: Risk category: Risk category: 7.
Resourcing Principal risk: Principal risk: Principal risk: Failure to meet regulatory requirements leading Major events mean that Workspace is unable to carry Failure to progress with strategy due to inability to fines or tax penalties, or the introduction of new out its business for a sustained period.
to recruit and retain correct staff.
Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Dashboard Risk impact Fines or penalties for failure Loss of critical data.
Reduced ability to action to adhere to regulations.
Loss of access for customers strategy successfully.
Impact Failure to identify and respond Impact to work at our business Impact Insufficient resource to Medium to the introduction of new High centres.
High manage increased demands requirements.
Probability post-mitigation Health and Safety breaches.
Probability post-mitigation Potential negative impact Probability post-mitigation Possible Negative impact on reputation Unlikely on reputation amongst Unlikely Mitigation amongst investors and customers.
We have a robust recruitment Change from last year partners suppliers.
Change from last year Change from last year process in place to ensure that No change No change Mitigation No change there is an appropriate level of Mitigation We have robust Business interviewing and scrutiny of Risk appetite REIT conditions are monitored Risk appetite Continuity Plans and procedures Risk appetite new joiners.
Medium and tested on a regular basis and Medium in place which are regularly Medium reported to the Board.
We work tested and updated.
We have various incentives to closely with HMRC and our tax align staff objectives with those advisers to ensure we are aware IT controls and safeguards are of the Group to help ensure staff of emerging issues and keeping in place across all our systems, are working in the best interests Link to strategy Right up-to-date with changes.
Link to strategy Right including a specific standalone Link to strategy Right of the Group and its stakeholders.
market market market Right Right Right Right Right Right Right people.
brand properties data centre back-up facility.
brand properties This is supported by a robust The The The Workspace Workspace Workspace Advantage Advantage Advantage Right brand.
Right Right Close working relationship Right people.
Right Right appraisal and review process Right Right people customers people customers people customers maintained with appropriate Right brand.
Risk management in action Right brand.
authorities and all relevant issues We have developed a crisis openly disclosed.
management plan to document Our HR team run a detailed Key metrics Link to KPIs Link to KPIs how we would deal with a major training and development 10.
The Risk Committee provides incident or downtime with our programme to ensure staff 2.
Adjusted trading profit after regular updates to the Board systems.
This is to enhance are supported and encouraged interest.
195 on emerging risks and issues.
our business continuity plans to progress their learning and 3.
and ensure that key senior study opportunities.
Staff trained on GDPR 4. Dividend per share.
The Company Secretary issues staff are aware of roles and in year 5.
a detailed briefing to the Board responsibilities in the event Risk management in action 6.
Our staff are what makes our 7.
business work and drive the 8.
The Groups Head of Health success of the Company, 9.
and Safety meets regularly with alongside making our business the Chief Executive Officer to centres a fun and vibrant place Key metrics keep abreast of any actual or to work for both staff and potential Issues.
We wanted to build on the culture we have and Risk management in action ensure we are communicating 22 Regulatory risk has been a key this well, so a series of staff Internal promotions in year focus for Workspace in 2017 18 workshops were held to discuss, with impending changes to debate and celebrate the culture GDPR requirements and also we have and consider how we us falling into the HMRC Senior can further improve and Accounting Officer regime enhance this.
SAO with gross assets being over 2bn.
We also continue to develop our staff with the aim to making GDPR We have reviewed our taxation them feel committed and Extensive review of our data has been strategy document which engaged to work towards undertaken throughout the year in advance outlines our overall approach delivering our overall objectives.
of GDPR requirements with us reviewing our to tax and the controls we have We have had a number of document retention policies, documenting in place to ensure compliance.
internal promotions in the year all our key data in information asset registers This is being published on our reflecting the commitment and and a detailed training programme for all website.
We have also quality of our staff.
This has been a useful review undertaken some detailed programme and helped to identify some reviews of key taxation areas and efficiencies and changes to how we store, developed a rolling programme retain and manage data.
54Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
