Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maximising our advantage Understanding and responding to market trends Workspaces 1.
Listen to the constantly changing trends leading-edge constantly that affect the London market.
offer is proving changing trends increasingly that affect the appealing to London market.
Maintain an London trend London trend London trend London trend up-to-date London is still seen The spotlight on flexible London continues Smaller businesses are as a global hub for space continues to grow, to attract significant driving the economy To help us maintain understanding business along with demand from investment capital our market of what our across the business advantage we: customers need spectrum and respond appropriately.
Evolve and Description Description Description Description innovate to Despite continuing political and In 2017, flexible space providers Transaction volumes in Londons Since 2010, the number of small stand out from economic uncertainty, there is took up over 21% of Central investment market rose 33% in and medium-sized enterprises 4 2 2 no sign of London losing its London office space.
The 2017, overcoming the political in London has grown by 41%.
the crowd in lustre as a business and cultural majority of this space is let to headwinds of the previous year.
These businesses are powering centre.
London represents 23% operators, but the year also saw This demand for London real the economy, providing 60% a competitive of national output and generates traditional landlords launching estate has continued into 2018, of private sector jobs and 47% landscape.
6 just under 400bn every year flexible space products as with 2.25bn worth of of turnover.
businesses of all shapes and commercial deals transacted 5 sizes are now demanding in Q1 2018. flexibility.
What this means for What this means for What this means for What this means for Workspace Workspace Workspace Workspace London remains the ideal home Increased interest in our market With significant capital chasing Our offer is open to all but for Workspace.
With 5.8m is positive for Workspace as our commercial assets in London, the built-in flexibility means 2 workers and 128,000 new jobs model has long been focused our investment team has built The Workspace Advantage is created in the year to October on flexibility.
We continue to extensive knowledge of the particularly attractive to growing 2017, we believe the capital reiterate our differentiated assets that would work for our businesses.
We continue to see holds great opportunities for position to customers and model and is nimble enough strong demand for our space our business.
There is no let investors to ensure all to move quickly when an and reported 351 expansions up expected a Knight Frank stakeholders understand opportunity arises.
We have a in the year as customers have mitigation activities including Super connected: survey predicts almost 900,000 The Workspace Advantage strict hurdle rate for acquisitions grown with Workspace.
the assessment of potential Delivering The jobs will be created in the and what differentiates our but have a strong track record new risks if the market changes.
of finding value in the market.
requires all parts of A business model designed our business to work 5.8m 10.7m 2.25bn 41% to create long-term value 3 5 Workers in London Sq.
ft. of flexible space Commercial deals in Q1 2018 Increase in small businesses together.
page 16 4 2 in Central London in London since 2010 A focus on Doing the Right An up-to-date market Thing helps us to manage understanding is critical our resources and to our overall success.
relationships page 22 Chief Executives strategic Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Our market knowledge means Right Market Right Market Right Properties Right Customers review page 28 we can ensure our business Using risk to help make the Right Customers Right Market model and strategy are aligned Right Properties right strategic decisions to current market trends.
It also page 46 allows our Audit and Risk Business review page 62 Committees to monitor our risk 1.
GLA Economics Current Issues Note 57, May 2018.
The London Report 2018, Knight Frank.
Central London Quarterly Offices Q1 2018, Knight Frank.
Human Capital: Disruption, Opportunity and Resilience in Londons workforce, 6.
Small Business, Big Ambition: FSB General Election Manifesto 2017.
8Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 9Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Understanding and responding to market trends continued Workspace operates in an Workspace history 2.
Evolve and innovate to stand out from increasingly popular segment in flexible space of what our customers need and the crowd in a competitive landscape.
of the real estate market, with With a 30-year history offering flexible space fast becoming leases on flexible terms, respond appropriately.
With that Workspaces business model comes inevitable confusion, as generating value through there are many different players ownership of properties and offering different products under a focus on direct customer different descriptions, from relationships has not changed.
co-working to managed space to flexi space.
However, we are very aware Customer trend Customer trend Customer trend Customer trend of the need to constantly Businesses want Employers are Technology is allThere is a drive for Competition innovate and evolve our built-in flexibility and increasingly focused important, both in the companies to articulate This year has seen a further shift offer as trends develop and a well-designed work on providing healthy provision of solutions a wider purpose beyond in the real estate market as ways customer requirements change, of working continue to change.
environment that workplaces for customers and in making a profit Major landlords and developers, encourages collaboration creating a more who traditionally let space to We have a rolling programme engaging customer large corporates, are now either of refurbishments and experience signing leases to skilled operators redevelopments to upgrade who can bring in the smaller, our historic and characterful more disruptive businesses buildings to modern standards, of the future, or alternatively, and we are constantly on the launching new products lookout for new buildings in Description Description Description Description themselves in order to try and dynamic locations to add While the growth of SMEs Cushman & Wakefield reports With operations becoming Many businesses are considering tap into this market directly.
and start-ups in London has that up to 90% of companies increasingly digital, all businesses their role in the local community undoubtedly driven increased operational expenditure is on expect best-in-class technology and in society as a whole.
We work hard to ensure that our 1 demand for flexibility, this trend employees.
It is therefore no as a basic requirement in their Investors are also increasingly customer offer, The Workspace has now reached larger surprise that employers have space.
A survey conducted for focused on ESG Environment, Advantage, remains up-to-date.
Securing and woken up to the productivity the Federation of Small Social and Governance factors We provide inspiring spaces that retaining talent is a challenge benefits that healthy workplaces Businesses found that 94% and the impact that companies customers personalise and furnish for every business and the right can deliver.
A recent survey of companies surveyed interact have on the environment and themselves, with best-in-class, working environment can have found that 87% of real estate with customers and suppliers on society.
reliable and secure technology a great impact on that.
leaders said health and wellbeing online, while 94% use internet throughout the building.
2 was the biggest change in banking for their business.
sustainability issues in the past 2 five years.
What this means for What this means for What this means for What this means for Workspace Workspace Workspace Workspace We have always built flexibility Many of our customers cycle or Workspace has committed to We know that our customers into our offer, as we want our run to work and we are installing rolling out WiredScore want to have a positive impact customers to be able to grow dry cycle storage and showers accreditations across its on the world around them.
or contract but remain with at our centres as a result.
portfolio, with 50 buildings In line with our Doing the Right Workspace.
The design of our For example, at China Works, targeted for Wired Certified Thing strategy, we run a number spaces has become increasingly a major refurbishment near Gold or Platinum by 2019. of initiatives, from education important, and we are constantly Vauxhall, we have retrofitted Internally, technology is crucial on recycling to facilitating evolving the look and feel of our the basement with 75 bicycle to enhancing the customers apprenticeships, with our buildings, as well as the spaces, six showers and experience, for example, through customer and supplier base amenities we provide, in line 36 lockers.
the use of Virtual Reality tours for Londons disadvantaged with changing trends.
351 311 15 40,000 Customer expansions Cycling spaces installed across Workspace buildings Wired Raised for various charities in 2017 18 the portfolio in 2017 18 Certified Gold or Platinum by Workspace people and customers across our portfolio Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Link to our strategy Right Properties Right People Right Brand Right Brand Right Customers Right Properties Right Customers Right People Right Brand 1.
The Occupier Edge, Sixth Edition 2018, Cushman & Wakefield.
Engage The Future of Sustainability Issue 1, Greengage.
Reassured, Optimised, Transformed: Driving digital demand among small businesses, Federation of Small Businesses, September 2015.
10Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 2 SEEING AROUND CORNERS 12Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 13 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information H Ho ow M w Me es su ut U t Ul lu us so oy yl lu u, C, Cl lu us st te er r C Ce en nt tr re M e Ma an na ag ge er i r in E n Ea as st t L Lo on nd do on n, h, he el lp ps u s us d s fide el li iv five er r T Th he W e Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce Ad e Adva van nt ta ag ge e Se See eiin ng a g ar rou ound c nd co or rn ne er rs i s is a s an a n ar rt I t Iv five e p pe er rf fe ect cte ed o d ov five er t r th he l e la as st c t cou oup plle o e of y f ye ea ar rs s.. IIt m t me ea an ns s s se ee eiin ng t g th hiin ng gs b s be ef fo or re t e th he ey y h ha ap pp pe en n. F. Fr ro om t m th he b e biig t g th hiin ng gs s, l, liik ke a e a c cu us st to om me er r r ru un nn niin ng ou g out o t of s f sp pa ac ce e, t, to t o th he e lliit tt tlle e, s, su uc ch a h as w s wa at te er b r bo ot tt tlle es i s in t n th he e m me ee et tiin ng r g ro oo om ms n s no ot b t be eiin ng r g re efi filllle ed d.. IIn m n my j y jo ob b, I w, I wo or rr ry a y ab bou out h t ho ow I c w I ca an n d do m o mo or re f e fo or ou r our c r cu us st to om me er rs s. K. Kn no ow wiin ng g w wh ha at t t th he ey l y liik ke e a and d nd do on nt l t liik ke e i is a s allll p pa ar rt o t of m f my d y da ay y. S. Sh ho ow wiin ng w g we c e ca ar re e a ab bou out t t th ha at i t is a b s a biig p g pa ar rt o t of h f ho ow w W Wor orks ksp pac ace e do doe es s t th hiin ng gs s.. M Me esu sut t U Ulu lus so oy ylu lu C Cllus ust ter er C Cen ent tr re e M Ma ana nager ger, p piic ct tu ur re ed w d wiit th M h Ma ar rn niie e O Ot tt to on n, C, Ce en nt tr re M e Ma an na ag ge er r, P Piilll B l Bo ox x, B, Be et th hn na al G l Gr re ee en n.. T To s o se ee t e th he r e role o ole our ur p pe eo ople a ple an nd o d our v ur va alu lue es s pl pla ay i y in v n va alu lue c e cr re ea at tiio on n g go t o to p o pa ag ge es 1 s 16 t 6 to 1 o 17 7.. 12Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 14 14 15Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
