Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maximising our advantage A business model designed to create long-term value Key inputs H Ho ow w w we c e cr re ea at te a e and c nd ca ap pt tu ur re v e va allue ue Key outcomes The key inputs are what we Our value-creating activities Platform Marketing and Creating value means we can need to run Workspace.
Our are split into Portfolio Asset direct relationships which grow the business, continue value-creating activities are ownership which ensures control allow us to attract and retain to attract and retain the right designed to develop and and provides us with the ability the right customers.
people as well as provide the strengthen each of them.
to adapt properties and best service to our customers.
1 1 Portfolio We generate value through Super connected: Financial strength Adding value to intensifying use at existing Financial strength Our Business Review is Delivering The our properties sites, often creating brand-new Strong cash flow and prudent Consistent returns to on pages 62 to 71 and our Workspace Advantage balance sheet management We own all our properties business centres in partnership shareholders, a 30% increase Balance Sheet on page 147. requires all parts of and operate them to generate with residential developers.
allow us to execute our strategy.
in the dividend and a strong income over the long term.
balance sheet that gives us our business to work We have a strong pipeline Acquisition and ongoing confidence to continue to together.
of refurbishment and ownership of assets grow the business.
redevelopment projects, Workspace acquires properties Our aim is to create value for and also take advantage across London.
of acquisition opportunities assets enables us to constantly 2 2 to further grow the business.
upgrade and transform them To deliver this, our value creating to increase their value and drive The right people The right people Our People are discussed activities are guided by: Workspace people display There are three core valuerental growth.
We will dispose Working for a leading business.
in detail in our Resources and Our values, which help drive creating activities: of properties where we believe deep knowledge in their Access to development Relationships section on pages our behaviours and deliver subjects, have an inquisitive we can no longer add value or opportunities and a values- 22 to 27.
Like-for-like rental growth if the property falls below our nature and thirst for innovation, driven culture that rewards Governance which helps us and show genuine care for our We carry out light internal robust return targets.
Right refurbishments to enhance both customers, our communities market The ongoing mitigation Right London is and each other.
of our principal risks and growing and market uncertainties which helps changing Existing projects show us where and when 3 3 We have a rolling programme we think we can create value.
Our properties of refurbishments to upgrade Our properties Details of our properties are Market insight which guides Right Right or expand our existing We have a portfolio of high Properties that customers outlined in the Business Review brand properties how we use the key inputs Right Right quality, well-located assets Increasing Creating properties and grow our and London love.
Our portfolio on pages 62 to 71. to our Business Model.
recognition modern growth brand properties footprint in London.
value has increased to 2.3bn Our strategy which is regularly and reputation environments The in the year.
Guided by our values, governance, Workspace risk mitigation, market insight and strategy Advantage Understanding and responding to market trends Platform Personalisation page 8 4 4 Adding value for There are no constraints placed A focus on Doing the Right Doing the right thing our customers on our customers, with flexible Doing the Right Thing Our sustainability performance Right Thing helps us to manage our Right Right Right We work hard to improve our people We focused on improving is detailed in our Resources Workspaces marketing lease terms, a range of spaces resources and relationships customers Driving people customers practices internally and actively platform provides us with and secure, unlimited data recycling rates in 2017 18, and Relationships section Open to all page 22 performance encourage suppliers and holding educational roadshows on pages 22 to 27 and at valuable customer relationships downloads and uploads.
Chief Executives strategic customers to do the same, and insight.
We market to all at our properties, with those www.
co. uk review page 28 to ensure we have a positive centres showing a 10% investors  businesses across London Communities Using risk to help make the impact on our communities and our unique customer Workspace customers are improvement in recycling right strategic decisions and society as a whole.
connected to each other via page 46 a range of networking and Business review page 62 There are three core valuebusiness insight events run Our governance page 72 5 5 creating activities: by our centre managers.
Customer relationships Customer relationships The relationships we have with Being part of a community of We enjoy strong relationships Connectivity Workspace customers across Our customers benefit from our suppliers and partners and with the thousands of our proactive approach, the communities in which we Workspace invests in London provides a range businesses in our space.
state-of-the-art technology of benefits, from social which helps them focus on their operate are detailed in our Our success is dependent business.
In 2017 18 we carried Resources and Relationships infrastructure to ensure connections to insights that on staying ahead of the trends customers can work how support business growth.
out minor refurbishment works section on pages 22 to 27. and delivering the best service at several centres, upgrading and where they want.
the space and service for our customers.
16Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 17Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 3 Im going to run this business one day 18Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information H Ho ow S w Sa am T m Ta ay yl lo or r, w, wh ho we o we h he el lp pe ed p d pl la ac ce a e as a s an a n ap pp pr re en nt ti ic ce e a at C t Co og ge en nt t, h, he el lp ps u s us d s fide el li iv five er r T Th he W e Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce Ad e Adva van nt ta ag ge e X XL LP c P ca am me t e to m o me w e wiit th t h th he e c ch ha anc nce t e to j o jo oiin C n Co oge gen nt a t as a s an n a ap pp pr re en nt tiic ce n e ne ea ar rlly t y tw wo y o ye ea ar rs a s ag go o a an nd I w d I wa as s s so e o ex xc ciit te ed d!!
T To l o le ea ar rn a n an nd t d th hr riiv five u e un nde der r C Co oge gen nt h t ha as b s be ee en a n am ma az ziin ng s g so f o fa ar r.. T Th ha an nk ks t s to W o Wo or rk ks sp pac ace a e an nd X d XL LP P, t th hiis a s ap pp pr re en nt tiic ce es sh hiip h p ha as g s giiv five en n m me ho e hop pe f e fo or a d r a diiff ffe er re en nt c t ca ar re ee er r, w wh hiic ch I r h I re ea alllly a y ap pp pr re ec ciia at te e, a, as s t th he u e un niiv five er rs siit ty r y rou out te w e wa as s jju us st no t not f t fo or m r me e.. S Sa am m Tay Tayl lo or r A Ap pp pr re en nt tiic ce a e at t W Wo or rk ks spa pac ce e su sup ppl pliie er r, C Co og ge en nt t E Ellec ectr triic ca all S Se er rv viic ce es Lt s Ltd d, p piic ct tu ur re ed w d wiit th I h Ia an H n Hiille ey y, C Co om mm mu un niity ty P Pr ro ojje ect cts s M Ma an na ag ge er a r at X t XL LP P, o, ou ut ts siid fide e T Th he F e Fr ra am me es s, S, Sh ho or re ed diit tc ch h.. T To s o se ee h e ho ow w w we h e he ellp p t to b o br riin ng t g th he n e ne ex xt g t ge en ne er ra at tiio on n iin nt to t o th he b e bu us siin ne ess pl ss pla ac ce e g go t o to p o pa ag ge 2 e 24 4.. 18Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 20 20 21Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
