Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Another year of strong performance Chairmans statement This year, we have seen London Everyone at Workspace Governance overview 2018 financial highlights retain its robust nature as a from centre managers to NonTo understand how governance global centre for business.
The Executive Directors is focused underpins The Workspace city continues to be a thriving, on delivering The Workspace Profit before tax Advantage: vibrant hub of commerce and Advantage.
The Board and Nomination Committee on culture, despite the political I would like to thank all our page 100 and economic uncertainty that colleagues for wholeheartedly Audit Committee on page 104 abounds.
With a growing number embracing our strategy and for Risk Committee on page 111 of businesses attracted to London working so hard to achieve our Investment Committee on and those already here continuing objectives.
The work we have 170.4m page 112 to rethink their occupational done internally this year to Remuneration Committee strategies, it remains the ideal articulate our Company culture on page 113 home for Workspace.
and values has highlighted the Adjusted trading profit after interest fantastic ethos that Workspace Against this backdrop, the people bring to work each day.
business has delivered another The drive that our people exhibit excellent set of results, driving extends beyond the day-to-day both income and capital growth.
operations of our business, Net rental income has risen 21% and I am extremely proud 60.7m 20% to 95.6m and we have seen our of the work we do to support EPRA Net Asset Value per share our local communities.
EPRA NAV per share With London continuing to offer This strong financial performance strong growth opportunities, and outlook has given the Board and the structural shift in the the confidence to recommend a real estate market towards our 30% increase in the total dividend, business model, the Board and demonstrating our commitment I have every confidence in the 10.37 8.8% to a progressive dividend policy future of this business.
and our continued focus on driving income growth.
We strongly believe that we Dividend per share have the right strategy, the right Over the last year, the Board business model and the right has approved the acquisition team in place to continue to of some larger properties in very deliver value for shareholders attractive locations.
Properties over the long term.
such as The Salisbury in the City 27.39p 30% and Centro Buildings in Camden are fantastic additions to the Workspace portfolio, and we Like-for-like rent roll are excited about the future Daniel Kitchen asset management and income Non-Executive Chairman growth opportunities these will provide.
We also have a huge amount of activity ongoing across our existing portfolio, with 8.6% a number of new and extensively refurbished buildings launching from our project pipeline over 2018 non-financial highlights the next year.
Average enquiries per month 1,016 Customer advocacy 90% See pages 66 to 70 of the Business Review, notes 8 and 9 on pages 159 and 160 and the Glossary for definitions.
2Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
