Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information l a t n e l a m i c Maximising our advantage A focus on Doing the Right Thing helps us to manage our key resources and relationships Our properties Our customers Our people Our suppliers Our communities Our brand Doing the right thing The strategy has been in place Over the following pages, Resource: Relationship: Resource: and partners Relationship: Resource: Our Doing the Right Thing for over a year now and has we look at our key resources Over the last 30 We foster direct Our people are our Resource: It is important to A strong and strategy ensures that we operate delivered some excellent results.
and relationships in more detail, Right years, we have built relationships with greatest resource From building both Workspace confident brand responsibly in our dealings with From providing volunteering highlighting particular market a portfolio of our customers to and we have a contractors to and our customers helps us market all stakeholders and reinforces and fundraising support to achievements in the year and fantastic properties ensure were able diverse mix of skills architects, cleaners that we engage directly to our commitment to the our selected charities to targets for the following year.
Right Right brand properties some full of to listen, understand and experience in and technology with and positively customers and sustainable growth of this championing environmental Doing the Right Thing history and others and respond to our teams.
providers, we rely impact the drives enquiries business.
initiatives that ensure our their needs.
on suppliers and communities in brand new.
buildings and supply chains have Right Right responsibility Relationship: partners to help which were based.
a positive rather than negative people customers Page 26.
Ensuring our Page 27. to future proof us deliver The impact on the environment.
these buildings and people are Workspace Page 27. ensure they are motivated and Advantage.
sustainable so that committed is key to they can continue the success of this Relationship: to play an important business.
Maintaining good Awards, accreditations and partnerships role in their working relationships Super connected: communities.
Page 24. with these groups is Delivering The Global Real Estate FTSE4Good Index Better Buildings of vital importance.
Sustainability Partnership BBP Workspace Advantage Page 24.
Benchmark GRESB Page 24. requires all parts of We were once again included We gained a Green Star for the We are a member of the BBP, our business to work in the FTSE4Good Index, which fourth year in a row.
This year we a collaboration of the UKs helps us assess our achievements together.
improved our score from 76 to leading commercial property against a transparent and 81, exceeding both the GRESB owners working together to evolving global corporate We depend on developing Average score of 63 and the improve the sustainability responsibility standard.
The long-lasting relationships and Peer Average score of 73.
FTSE4Good Index Series harnessing our key resources GRESB public disclosure level measures companies to ensure we can continue to Islington Sustainable was Grade A group average Environmental, Social and grow our business and deliver Grade B. GRESB allows us and Energy Partnership Governance ESG practices.
our investors to measure our This year, we achieved 3.2 out sustainability performance of 5 Absolute Rating and 82% Workspace has a representative To achieve this sustainable within the real estate sector.
growth we: Acquire, develop and future European Public Real Investors in People proof properties in the most Estate Association exciting locations across EPRA London.
We continued to hold our We were awarded another Gold Build strong partnerships Investors in People accreditation for reporting in line with the 2017 with our suppliers.
for the 19th year in a row, having European Sustainability Best Empower our people to achieved the highest possible Practice Recommendations deliver the best offer to our level, a Gold Award in September EPRA SBPRs for the fourth customers.
2016 re-accreditation is every year in a row.
These awards are Leverage our unique brand three years.
In order to achieve intended to raise the standards positioning within the industry.
Gold, we had to provide 126 and consistency of sustainability Continuously reinforce and additional evidence reporting for listed real estate strengthen our customer requirements.
The Standard companies across Europe.
defines what it takes to lead, Positively impact the support and manage people Carbon Disclosure communities in which we well for sustainable results.
Project CDP operate, supporting the next generation to enter the Green Electricity We achieved a B in our Carbon workplace.
Disclosure Project score, exceeding the sector score The majority of our electricity average of C. Scores were based supplies are on a green tariff.
Understanding and on disclosure, awareness, SSE Green is 100% renewable responding to market trends management and leadership with energy generated by a variable page 8 regards to carbon management mix of hydro-electric, offshore A business model designed and climate change risk.
This year to create long-term value we have calculated our marketpage 16 based emissions in addition Chief Executives strategic to location-based emissions review page 28 for our Scope 2 reporting.
Using risk to help make the right strategic decisions page 46 Business review page 62 Our governance page 72 22Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 n o o S r i v n E Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information A focus on Doing the Right Thing helps us to manage our key resources and relationships continued New cycle storage 48 Workspace people Our suppliers and Our people at China Works.
completed an 8.5 mile partners row down the Thames, To be successful Harnessing the right culture is raising 23,500 for AHOY.
important in any organisation to We could not operate our enhance performance and unite business without calling on the the business around common services of key suppliers and you need a mix of behaviours that will help it to partners.
We take great care in achieve its goals.
selecting the organisations we work with, and it is in our interest At Workspace, we have a great properties and to build strong relationships fantastic culture and pride and ensure our goals and ourselves in employing people commitment to sustainability with a diverse mix of skills, are aligned.
But to be Case study: Case study: Our properties Case study: Cycling facilities Apprenticeships Articulating our values Thanks to an increased focus Over the last two years, we At Workspace, we value successful over the This year, we have kicked off a amongst our customers on the have started holding workshops long-term ownership of our project to articulate the values health and wellbeing of their with our charity partner XLP, properties.
We believe this helps and behaviours that make employees, as well as a desire to educate our suppliers on us to generate more value for Workspace people unique to promote sustainable the value of apprenticeships long term you also shareholders, but it also means and that form the successful methods of transport, we have and to facilitate introductions that we are building sustainable culture that is delivering invested in the cycling facilities with some of the young people properties that will last long into The Workspace Advantage.
We take pride in the need the right people, the year, we have installed 311 work we do to reposition, This project has highlighted bicycle storage spaces, 30 This year, we caught up with refurbish or redevelop our the unique qualities showers and 212 lockers into Sam Taylor, one of those buildings to ensure they meet Workspace people bring our business centres.
Following our customer needs and are suitably to work and exhibit every day.
also rolled out a mobile bicycle introduction to XLP, Sam was future proofed.
Our people demonstrate deep service and repairs surgery employed as an apprentice by knowledge in their subjects, Jamie Hopkins that visits our centres regularly.
Cogent Electrical Services Ltd, Over the year, we have have an inquisitive nature Chief Executive Officer one of our suppliers.
Sam has continued our efforts to reduce and thirst for innovation and been employed for 18 months the environmental impact of show genuine care for our Targets for the coming year now and has worked across our properties and their related customers, our communities Continue to roll out installation many of our developments, supply chains.
On-site, our asset and each other.
of solar panels at suitable including The Frames in managers and centre teams sites.
Read his work hard to create healthy Reduce our absolute Scope 1 thoughts on the opportunity Long service awards environments for our customers.
and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas on page 20.
We believe it is this culture that Emissions across our portfolio encourages long-term service by 16% by 2020. and are proud that our people Ensure any new electricity Targets for the coming year can build long careers at contracts are on a green tariff.
Roll out XLP apprenticeship Workspace.
During the year, workshops for customers, 27 people achieved long service as well as suppliers.
Case study: awards, of which 17 were for Achieve a CCS score Cocoa Studios at The Biscuit 10 years or more.
of at least 38 50 for all Factory developments and major This is a brand-new building refurbishments in 2018 19. on the wider Biscuit Factory Number of workshops held Divert at least 95% of nonestate.
The building has been to help articulate our values hazardous demolition waste We have begun to install solar rated BREEAM Excellent panels across our estate.
Five and construction waste by Design Stage, which takes weight from landfill for all properties have been fitted with into account the 76 cycle 8 solar panels so far, generating developments and major storage spaces, exceeding refurbishments in 2018 19.
87,738 kilowatt hour per annum, requirements, natural and we have plans to install Procure at least 95% of timber ventilation in all office units, The number of people involved from certified sustainable them at a further six properties.
 in the articulation of our values Overall in 2017 18, we increased sources FSC Equivalent glazing, water metering and in 2018 19. our renewable energy generation leak detection in place and from solar by 78% year-on-year.
100 The site has also achieved a Considerate Constructors Score CCS of 40 50 and an A grade EPC rating.
24Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information A focus on Doing the Right Thing helps us to manage our key resources and relationships continued Learning and development This year, as an extension of Courses taken during the year Case study: Our customers Our communities A thirst for knowledge and included: our hugely successful InspiresMe Recycling initiatives learning is one of our values work experience programme, Certificate in Marketing.
We have continued to roll out The relationships we build and Our extensive footprint across and, as a result, we run a regular Accountancy ACCA we decided to wrap up all of initiatives to improve recycling maintain with our customers are London means that we operate programme to provide training the activity we do with young Association of Chartered rates across the portfolio.
We among the most critical for the in many different communities and development opportunities Certified Accountants, people under the InspiresMe held 12 recycling roadshows business, and constantly throughout the city, and we to all our employees.
This umbrella and aim to roll it out CIMA Chartered Institute during the year, with the enhancing these relationships take our role as a landlord and ensures they remain motivated of Management Accountants further across our network.
centres visited demonstrating, is central to our strategy.
employer in those communities and committed and are We will work with our centre and AAT Association of on average, a 10% The Workspace Advantage is all seriously.
constantly enhancing their Accounting Technicians.
managers to build relationships improvement in recycling about providing a best-in-class skills and experience.
with schools local to all our Real Estate MSc.
We have put in place service to our customers and Through our programme buildings and invite customers to new, clear consistent signage giving them support that of refurbishments and Our rigorous training programme, take part in InspiresMe activities, Supporting our team throughout our centres and goes beyond the space they redevelopments, we aim to bring led by both internal and external to do the right thing such as the careers workshops.
launched our recyclopedia, let from us.
high-quality business space to providers, covers a wide range Our desire and ability to give a customer information pack the local communities, along of topics, including: back to our communities came Case study: to provide recommendations We continue to roll out our with the valuable custom and People management.
through strongly in the AHOY and education on recycling.
programme of business insight footfall that comes with that.
employee workshops we held Following the success of the As part of this work, we have events, which bring customers Networking and events.
to help articulate our values.
three Workspace teams who also committed to tackling together from across the whole One of the priorities of our Doing Social media.
The Doing the Right Thing took part in the Meridian Pull food waste, with food waste portfolio and provide valuable the Right Thing strategy is to Conflict resolution.
committee works hard to Challenge in 2016, last year streams introduced at 80% insight and learning alongside leverage the business skills and Data protection.
provide opportunities for we decided to expand the of our cafs and a fast food networking opportunities.
This knowledge we have internally Energy and sustainability.
employees to volunteer or challenge.
In March 2018, waste event held in year, event themes included the at Workspace, as well as the fundraise for our chosen causes.
eight Workspace boats, with conjunction with the North rise of the bots, digital finance network of companies in our Over the last year, we have also six people in each, rowed London Waste Authority at and the impact of neuroscience space, to support disadvantaged launched a series of training During the year, members of 8.5 miles down the Thames The Chocolate Factory in on brand psychology.
The days, held twice annually, for our our team gave 61 work days to to Greenwich.
The teams had Wood Green, with 66 support we provide takes a on-site staff.
These are run by a volunteer for charities, plus an set themselves an ambitious customers in attendance.
We have seen a great response number of forms, from running mix of internal managers and additional 60 personal days, and fundraising target of 16,000 from our customers to initiatives careers events and assembly help to build relationships along with customers, raised for AHOY, the charity that uses Our efforts during the year that have a positive impact on talks at a school local to our between site and head office 40,000 for various charities.
watersports to work with have paid off, and we achieved Case study: our communities and the Our brand head office, to offering CV colleagues, while ensuring that all disadvantaged and at-risk an average recycling rate Brand Tracker environment, and therefore workshops, interview practice employees are aware of updated Case study: young people.
Fundraising across our buildings of 66% As part of the campaign continue to engage with Our brand is one of the most and apprenticeship opportunities systems and processes, as well Engaging our Facilities team initiatives included a raffle, above our target of 65%.
we launched in 2017, we customers on these.
Social important tools at our disposal to young people from inner city as non-operational initiatives, to reduce gas consumption bring-and-buy sale and commissioned a brand tracker media is one of the tools we use to excite and engage with estates through our partnership such as those from our Doing Having started to roll out themed events throughout survey to better understand to communicate with customers, customers, and consequently with the charity XLP.
Targets for the coming year smart metering at our the year.
The teams exceeded how far our brand reaches and the social posts that use the to drive enquiries for our space.
Work with our customers to properties, we had access to their fundraising target, raising consumers outside of our #doingtherightthing hashtag are During the year, we provided 148 increase the average recycling data that allowed us to engage a total of 23,500 for AHOY.
customer base and the level Days Workspace staff spent some of our best-performing Our customers want to put their hours of training for centre staff rate across all buildings where with our in-house Facilities of awareness of Workspace volunteering or fundraising posts, with engagement on own brand and identity on the on a wide range of subjects.
Workspace are responsible for Management team to reduce versus key competitors in for charitable causes average 11% higher than space they let from us, so our Targets for the coming year waste management to 70% gas consumption and the market.
brand is not hugely visible inside Roll out InspiresMe events We recognise the importance of by 31 March 2019, whilst greenhouse gas emissions.
However, our with local schools for supporting our people to pursue maintaining 100% diversion We held several educational The survey was conducted in-house Marketing team works customers across Workspace wider learning passions.
workshops throughout the both before and after the hard to ensure that the brand business centres.
support a range of development Launch customer benefits year and quarterly meetings Amount raised by Workspace campaign went live to analyse is highly visible to businesses Continue to work with charity activities, providing coaching platform online for customers with senior team members to staff for the 2018 AHOY charity its effectiveness.
We were as they start their search for partners, XLP and MyBnk, and mentoring, sponsorship to cross-promote services track progress.
Following rowing race pleased to see that awareness office space.
to run workshops for of further education and and products.
these efforts, gas consumption of Workspace increased disadvantaged young people professional qualifications, as Continue to expand the decreased by 3% in the year.
23,500 strongly following the The Workspace Advantage in London.
well as providing paid leave to Workspace events programme.
campaigns, with particular cut brand campaign that we ran complete recognised training through on our customer offer.
Targets for the coming year last year was effective in further courses that support career Workspace Business Insight We also saw immediate action raising awareness of our brand Continue to engage our aspirations.
taken as a result of the Facilities Managers on and offer.
campaigns, with web traffic improving energy performance Over the last year, we supported increasing significantly and of buildings they manage.
six people in undertaking first-time visits to the site Continue to support externally recognised courses as up 38% year-on-year.
employees through training part of our strong commitment and professional development to attracting and retaining the programmes.
very best talent, and making Targets for the coming year Workspace a great place to work.
Ongoing communication of The Workspace Advantage positioning using social, digital and traditional media.
Continue the annual survey to track brand awareness.
26Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 27Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
