CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE This statement of compliance summarises how The Board considers that WPP complied in all material respects with the principles of the the Company has implemented the principles Code.
The Board also confirms that it complies with all of the provisions of the Code, with the and provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate exception of A.
The Code requires that the role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Governance Code the Code.
The Code is should not be exercised by the same individual.
While this is ordinarily the case for the available at www.
Company, following the resignation of the previous Chief Executive, Sir Martin Sorrell, on 14April 2018, the Board appointed Roberto Quarta as interim Executive Chairman until a new Chief Executive was appointed.
Roberto Quarta held this role for just under five months, until 3 September 2018, when Mark Read was appointed as the new Chief Executive.
The FRC issued a new Code in July 2018 the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018.
TheBoard will assess its governance practices against the principles of the new Code during2019 and will report on its implementation in next years Annual Report & Accounts.
1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for The Non-Executive Directors have a diverse range As at the date of this report, the Board is promoting the long-term success of the Company of skills, experience and backgrounds.
As detailed composed of 12 Directors.
Two current members by directing and supervising the Companys in their biographies on pages 90 and 91, the are Executive Directors and 10, including the policy and strategy and is responsible to Non-Executive Directors work across the globe in Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors.
One shareholders for the Companys financial and media and advertising, investment banking and Non-Executive Director will be retiring at the operational performance and risk management.
investment management, pharmaceuticals, AGMin 2019, following which the Board will be Responsibility for the development and logistics and bioenergy, FMCG, international composed of 11 Directors.
The independence of implementation of Company policy and management consulting, private equity and angel each Non-Executive Director is assessed annually strategyand for day-to-day management issues investing, business education, manufacturing, by the Board.
The Board has confirmed that all of isdelegated by the Board to the Group Chief consumer products and retail management, the Non-Executive Directors standing for election Executive and Group Finance Director.
The list internet start-ups, government and non-profit and re-election at the 2019 AGM continue to ofmatters reserved to the Board can be organisations.
They provide constructive demonstrate the characteristics of independence.
com about challenge and assistance to the Group Chief corporate-governance.
Executive in developing the Companys strategy.
2 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Nomination and Governance Committee Details of 2018 Board attendance at Board and The Senior Independent Director is Nicole leads the process for appointments to the Board Committee meetings are set out on page 92.
Seligman who is available to shareholders and and makes recommendations to the Board.
acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and TheNomination and Governance Committee The Company provides insurance cover for its asan intermediary for the other Directors with ischaired by the Chairman of the Board and Directors and Officers.
The Senior comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
The Independent Directors role includes terms of reference of the Nomination and A.
2 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and Governance Committee are available on the As noted above the role of the Chairman and succession and this year the Board evaluation Companys website at wpp.
com about Chief Executive are ordinarily separated.
Nicole Seligman was appointed to the corporate-governance.
separate roles are set out in writing and are Board in January 2014 and is a member of the agreed by the Board.
Compensation Committee and the Nomination Mark Read was appointed to the Board on and Governance Committee.
As the Senior 3 September 2018 and Cindy Rose has been A.
3 THE CHAIRMAN Independent Director, Ms Seligman customarily appointed to the Board with effect from The Board is chaired by Roberto Quarta, who attends the Audit Committee meetings at the 1 April 2019.
For more details on the appointment chairs the Nomination and Governance invitation of the Chairman of that Committee.
process refer to the Nomination and Governance Committee and is a member of the Compensation Committee report on page 98.
Committee and attended all meetings of the Audit Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
3 COMMITMENT The Chairman provides the leadership of the Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Board and is the main point of contact between Directors do not set out a fixed time commitment the Board and the CEO.
The Chairman represents for Board attendance and duties but give an the Board in discussions with shareholders and indication of the likely time required.
It is investor bodies, ensures that systems are in place anticipated that the time required by Directors to provide Directors with timely and accurate will fluctuate depending on the demands of the information, represents the Company in external business and other events.
gatherings, and is also responsible for the Board governance principles.
He has led the ongoing emphasis on management development and CEO and senior management succession planning.
102 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE B.
EFFECTIVENESS C. ACCOUNTABILITY E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS B.
4 DEVELOPMENT C. 1 FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING E. 1 DIALOGUE WITH SHAREHOLDERS On joining WPP, Non-Executive Directors are given The Board is responsible for the presentation of a The relationship with shareholders, potential an induction which includes one-to-one meetings fair, balanced and understandable assessment of shareholders and investment analysts is given with management and the external auditors, the Companys position and prospects, within the high priority by the Company.
briefings on the duties of Directors of a Jersey Annual Report as well as all publicly available company, the Companys Share Dealing Code, financial information.
We have an appropriate The Company has a well-developed and WPP Code of Conduct and the UK Corporate system in place to meet this responsibility.
See continuous programme to address the needs of Governance Code.
The induction also covers page 175 for further information.
shareholders, investment institutions and analysts theBoard Committees that a Director will join.
for a regular flow of information about the AllDirectors are fully briefed on important C. 2 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Company, its strategy, performance and developments in the various business activities The Company operates a system of internal competitive position.
Given the wide geographic which the Company carries out worldwide and control, which is maintained and reviewed in distribution of the Companys current and regularly receive extensive information concerning accordance with the UK Corporate Governance potential shareholders, this programme includes the Companys operations, finances, risk factors Code and the FRC guidance on risk management regular visits to investors, particularly by the and its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and internal control.
Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance and obligations as Directors.
The Directors are Director and the Head of Investor Relations, in the also frequently advised on regulatory and best C. 3 AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS UK, Continental Europe and the major financial practice requirements which affect the During 2018, the Audit Committee comprised centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific Companys businesses on a global basis.
three Non-Executive Directors and was chaired by and Latin America.
The Companys Chairman Jacques Aigrain.
On 1 April 2019, Cindy Rose was meets with investors and regularly consults with B.
5 INFORMATION AND SUPPORT appointed as a Director of the Company and a investors governance representatives and All Directors have access to the services of the member of the Audit Committee.
The Company provides a Company Secretary and may take independent MrAigrains extensive recent and relevant preliminary announcement, an interim professional advice at the Companys expense in financial experience are set out on page 90. management statement at the end of the first and conducting their duties.
Theterms of reference of the Audit Committee third quarters that includes a trading update, an are available on the Companys website at interim report at half year and a trading update B.
Refer and presentation at the AGM.
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, an topage 99 for the review of the Audit external facilitator with no connection to WPP, Committees responsibilities and how these The Company ensures that it has a proper was engaged to lead the Board effectiveness weredischarged in 2018. dialogue with shareholders and their evaluation that was started in 2018 and representative bodies through Executive and completed in 2019.
More information on the Non-Executive Directors in relation to D. REMUNERATION evaluation is on page 95. remuneration and corporate governance matters.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director D. 1 THE LEVEL AND COMPONENTS B.
7 RE-ELECTION provide thorough feedback to the Board on issues OFREMUNERATION The Directors submit themselves for annual raised with them by shareholders.
The Companys compensation policy is designed re-election at each AGM, if they wish to continue to attract the best talent and ensure people are serving and are considered by the Board to be The Companys website, wpp.
com, provides rewarded fairly and competitively.
Directors may be appointed by current and historical financial information, out a reward structure that looks at the short, shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the including trading statements, news releases and medium and long term and is designed to Board on the recommendation of the Nomination presentations and the Companys statement of its promote sustainable performance aligned with and Governance Committee and must then stand corporate governance practices.
Shareholders approved the for re-election at the next AGM, where they may Directors Compensation Policy at the 2017 AGM be re-elected by ordinary resolution of the E. 2 CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF GENERAL MEETINGS and this is available on the Companys website.
With only specific exceptions to The AGM is a key opportunity for the Board to ensure Board continuity, Non-Executive Directors communicate with the Companys shareholders.
D. 2 PROCEDURE shall not stand for re-election after they have Notice of the 2019 AGM will be available on the The Compensation Committee is responsible for served for the period of their independence, as Companys website.
All Directors will attend the setting and managing the compensation of all determined by applicable UK and US standards, AGM and the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Executive Directors.
Controls and procedures are which is nine years.
the Compensation Committee and the in place to manage compensation of all other Nomination and Governance Committee will employees in the Group.
