249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 16 Strategic Report Sector Outlook Finally, we view the appointment of Alex Azar as the United Global Pharmaceuticals States Secretary of Health and Human Services by President For the most part, returns for global pharmaceutical stocks Donald Trump as another fide-risking event on the political mirrored that the of the MSCI World Healthcare Index, with front.
Mr. Azar is an ex-pharmaceutical industry executive some negative divergence in the final quarter of the financial from Eli Lilly & Co. who will be able to walk the fine line year, owing mostly to market volatility and rising interest rates.
between lowering healthcare costs for patients while For comparison, net total returns, on a sterling adjusted basis, preserving a market based drug pricing system in the were -5.2% for global pharmaceutical stocks as measured by United States.
the New York Stock Exchange ARCA Pharmaceutical Index compared to -2.5% for the MSCI World Healthcare Index.
Overall, we view the fundamentals of the global Underwhelming performance in the subsector during the year pharmaceutical companies as positive, albeit unevenly can be attributed to a variety of issues.
Valuation, as mentioned, remains undemanding remains undemanding, political rhetoric coming from the with price to earnings ratios towards the low end of the Donald Trump presidency has created a modest but constant historical range for the group.
Innovation remains strong with overhang for drug stocks, mostly over fears of significant a number of data read outs and new drug launches expected changes to drug pricing legislation in the United States.
Earnings growth rates, however, are somewhat has led, in our observation, to less generalist investor disparate, ranging from low single digits to high teens as participation in the sector.
Further, only modest M&A efforts patent expirations, pipelines, and new products are somewhat and certainly a lack of transformative business development dissimilar from company to company.
deals kept many investors at bay.
Biotechnology Nonetheless, we view the overall political landscape as a net After a difficult 2016, which was marked by election-related positive for therapeutic stocks.
A major macro policy overhang political overhangs on drug pricing policy in the United States, for therapeutics stocks entering 2017 was the possible repeal the biotechnology sector partially rebounded over the course and replace of the Affordable Healthcare Act ACA, or of the financial year, especially in U. S. dollar terms.
The ACA was President Barack Obamas first half of the Companys financial year, the biotechnology healthcare reform law that was designed to provide universal recovery was characterised by broad participation by both the healthcare insurance coverage in the U. S. However, despite large capitalisation and emerging capitalisation names in the the Republican party being in control of both chambers of biotechnology industry.
However, starting in the last quarter of Congress and the White House, the repeal of Obamacare failed 2017, a marked divergence in performance between the small despite many attempts to do so.
The removal of this and large capitalisation members of the sector emerged, with uncertainty was a positive for the sector.
smaller capitalisation biotechnology significantly Whilst President Trump failed at his attempts to repeal the outperforming their larger capitalisation counterparts.
ACA, he was successful in getting a major tax reform bill Investor sentiment for large capitalisation biotechnology passed into law.
Importantly for global biopharmaceutical soured considerably when Celgene, a bellwether stock for the companies, the new law lowered corporate tax rates to 21% group, announced multiple negative surprises in the autumn from 35% and lowered repatriation taxes to 15.5% or lower, of 2017, including a high profile clinical trial failure, lower than in some cases from 35%.
This has resulted in higher expected sales of a key growth driver, and ultimately a earnings, increased share buy backs, and larger dividends for lowering of their long-term guidance.
The result was a sudden large biopharmaceutical companies.
loss of U. S. $30 billion in market capitalisation within a month Moreover, the appointment of Dr. Scott Gottlieb as which spooked investors, resulting in a broader selloff in large commissioner of the FDA has been a positive for therapeutic cap biotechnology stocks as generalist investors fled the stocks, as we had anticipated last year.
Smaller capitalistion biotechnology companies did ended with a record number of new FDA drug approvals with comparatively better as investors believed that the larger 46.
Additionally, Dr. Gottliebs efforts to address the backlog of capitalisation names would need to acquire emerging generic drug approvals was also successful, with over 1,000 biotechnology companies to reaccelerate their growth and distinct approvals in 2017. deal with future patent expirations on their key products.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 17 Strategic Report Sector Outlook therapy, patisiran, for hereditary ATTR amyloidosis with Valuations among large capitalisation biotechnology polyneuropathy.
We expect the outlook for the biotechnology companies remain very attractive, with some companies sector for the Companys next financial year to remain positive, trading at historically low double-digit price-to-earnings given low valuations, continued M&A activity, strong multiples.
While investors have been concerned about innovation, and a favourable regulatory environment.
declining earnings growth and the exclusivity of many of the large capitalisation companies lead drugs, we believe many of Specialty Pharmaceuticals these concerns are well discounted into share prices.
In the reported financial year, concerns over pricing for Valuations are so low that we would not be surprised if some branded drug franchises remained a notable overhang for of the large capitalisation biotechnology companies specialty pharmaceutical companies and has hampered themselves became M&A targets.
Takeda Pharmaceuticals performance of a majority of sector participants.
In addition, proposed acquisition of Shire indicates there may be such U. S. political rhetoric, potential new U. S. government M&A appetite.
policies initiatives and aggressive formulary management by Overall M&A transaction volumes in biotechnology were third-party payors has not been helpful.
That said, we continue somewhat muted during most of the financial year, likely due to believe that several companies in this sector are to uncertainty about corporate tax reform in the U. S. We had well-positioned and primed for outperformance.
For this expected clarity on tax reform could spark an acceleration in select group, current valuation reflects worst-case scenarios M&A activity in the sector, and there does appear to be with regards to franchise pricing power but ignores potential evidence for this thus far in 2018.
Numerous M&A transactions contributions from meaningful proprietary pipeline have been announced since passage of the tax reform bill, programmes compounds poised to emerge as valuable growth including Celgenes acquisition of CAR-T company Juno drivers in the not-to-distant future.
As a result, in instances Therapeutics for.
U. S$9 billion, Sanofis acquisition of a where our due diligence and valuation analyses imply haematology company Bioverativ for U. S. $11.6 billion, and favourable risk-reward profiles, we have increased exposure to Novartis acquisition of gene therapy company AveXis for select companies with significant pipeline disclosures over the U. S. $8.7 billion.
Lastly, the level of innovation in the biotechnology sector In Europe, we remain constructive on a select group of remains very strong.
Completely new modalities of treatment companies benefiting from improving trends, new launch delivering significant clinical benefit emerged.
The first two cycles, and increased M&A.
Some companies should benefit CAR-T cellular therapies, a therapy that involves harvesting a from newly-installed management teams implementing fresh, cancer patients own T-cells, modifying them externally to more effective strategies that enhance shareholder value over attack the patients cancer, and then reinserting them back time.
We expect M&A to remain a dominant theme, as into the patient, were approved in 2017: Novartis Kymriah for companies continue to pursue creative business combinations leukemia and Kite Pharmaceuticals Yescarta for lymphoma.
driven by potential revenue, operating and tax synergies.
These cellular therapies have shown dramatic reduction in tumour burden in patients with advanced blood cancers.
Generic Pharmaceuticals The all-important US generic market remains in the throes of a Additionally, the very first gene therapy was approved in the systemic price erosion cycle, the result of consolidation of United States in late 2017: Spark Therapeutics Luxturna was pharmaceutical and wholesaler distribution channels and approved for the treatment of a rare genetic eye disorder exacerbated competitive dynamics, the latter stemming from an leading to progressive blindness.
Other biotechnology uptick in the number of generic approvals by the FDA.
Despite companies have also released promising results of gene this challenging backdrop, investors have warmed up to some of therapies for disorders such as haemophilia, the better-positioned companies in the sector in response to beta-thalassemia, and sickle cell disease.
initial indications that price declines are moderating.
In general, Lastly, we saw positive developments in treatments involving companies with broad, diversified product portfolios have fared modifying the transcription and processing of ribonucleic acid better than their more narrowly-focused peers.
Biogen continued the launch of their antisense drug that significant consolidation of the U. S. generic market will Spinraza, which helps restore muscle development in patients enable a more stable and favourable U. S. pricing environment, with the genetic disease spinal muscular atrophy, and Alnylam however this could take considerable time as sector leverage announced positive Phase III results for their RNA interference See Glossary beginning on page 72.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 17 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 18 Strategic Report Sector Outlook remains high.
Furthermore, we believe segments of the HMOs Health Maintenance Organisations significantly industry have been permanently scarred, leaving acquisition outperformed companies that administered services to patients, premiums impaired indefinitely.
This dynamic occurred for two main reasons: utilization of healthcare services came in lower than expected As anticipated, players with greater geographic reach have and corporate tax reform disproportionately benefited benefited from solid performance in key EU and Asian markets, companies with low financial leverage due to new rules against which has provided some offset to weaker US performance.
Separately, scrutiny regarding these markets, pricing erosion remains moderate and in line drug prices drove underperformance in drug supply chain with expectations, in stark contrast to conditions observed by stocks that stand to profit from higher inflation.
Some sizable markets Italy, Spain still offer solid growth potential as generic utilisation We do not expect HMOs to duplicate their strong continues to ramp up from modest levels.
Throughout Asia, outperformance in the coming year for a variety of reasons.
economic expansion, favourable demographics, supportive First, price competition may intensify driven by non-profit governmental policies, and other contributing factors continue competitors like Blue Cross Blue Shield that are motivated to to drive robust generic utilisation.
Second, tax reform benefits may be difficult to retain in a competitive marketplace as payors may Medical Devices give on price to capture share gains.
Third, a strengthening The reported financial year was a strong one for Medical economy creates stable or increasing utilisation of healthcare Device stocks and was marked by continued, stable growth services, putting pressure on costs.
Finally, we note valuations and further penetration into new high growth therapeutic are elevated when compared to historical norms.
The sector benefited from a favourable macro putative M&A activity may offer support to valuations, it is environment and a strong U. S. economy, and remained unclear if regulators will approve pending deals.
insulated from several political healthcare headwinds, notably We remain cautious on the drug supply chain because they healthcare reform and drug pricing.
M&A flow was also could be negatively impacted by news flow and rhetoric on healthy with Becton Dickinsons acquisition of C. R. Bard and drug price reform legislation, ongoing opioid litigation, many tuck-ins across the sector.
decelerating drug price inflation, and increased competition Looking ahead to the second half of calendar 2018, we expect from new entrants such as Amazon.
this positive fundamental backdrop to persist and for companies to lay the groundwork for revenue growth Life Science Tools Diagnostics acceleration into 2019 and beyond, while also benefitting on The life sciences tools sector continued its momentum the bottom line from U. S. tax reform.
M&A should continue at throughout much of the Companys previous financial year.
The a steady pace, with several large companies boasting ample subsectors leadership position within healthcare diverged firepower for tuck-ins and others ripe for portfolio more as political, macro, and strategic uncertainties were optimisation and divestitures.
The lack of a spotlight on the sector has paid dividends in allowing the sector to enjoy an elevated valuation.
We continue to favour companies that can sustainably deliver premium organic revenue growth through exposure to On a forward looking fundamental basis, bioprocessing, fueled underpenetrated high growth markets such as transcatheter by increased manufacturing focus for biosimilars and the heart valves, surgical robotics, spinal cord stimulation devices, buoyant capital markets for bio-pharma, continued to be the extremities implants, and left atrial appendage closure main driver in organic growth.
The sector remains well technologies.
Our investments reflect a preference for positioned to capitalise on these secular trends in bio-pharma.
companies that have demonstrated strong growth and are However, given the premium valuation ascribed to the sector, poised for further growth inflections with new product headline noise around global tariffs, especially relating to launches and or indication expansions in the second half of China, is a risk factor that should be taken into consideration.
Although impact of the proposed China tariff is difficult to quantify, the noise created in the market is a material Healthcare Services downside event for the group given its relatively high exposure The financial year favoured payers over providers.
In other into that geography.
words, companies that paid for healthcare services such as U. S. Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 19 Strategic Report Sector Outlook Meanwhile, capital markets are becoming more accessible to Overall, we contend that end markets for tools remain and will Chinese biotechnology companies.
The Hong Kong Stock continue to be attractive during 2018.
Political insularity for the Exchange announced its decision to amend the Main Board most part, is also attractive given the markets sensitivity on Listing Rules Listing Rules to allow New Economy difficult-to-assess twitter headlines.
However, all things companies, including pre-revenue biotechnology companies, factored in, elevated valuation is reflective of the said security to list on the Main Board.
We believe this will help expand our in the tools subsector.
investment universe in the region.
Emerging Markets In India, our stock selection process takes into account Healthcare companies in emerging markets continue to grow geographic and product revenue profit mix, pipeline quality faster than their counterparts in the West, driven by rising and vesting, manufacturing compliance status, and balance income levels, the increase in the proportion of GDP spent on sheet health.
Manufacturing compliance violations remain a healthcare, and local governments policy support.
notable risk and we continue to closely monitor dynamics in In China, our investment strategy focuses on innovation and the US generic market, which has been adversely impacted by high-quality generics in the pharmaceutical sector.
The a severe pricing erosion cycle.
Chinese government has been undertaking various initiatives From an investment perspective, we prefer companies with and reforms to improve the robustness and efficiency of their significant revenue diversity, including meaningful exposure to drug approval system and to increase the quality of generic higher-growth European markets, domestic Indian markets, drugs sold in China.
By the end of 2017, the Chinese FDA and other emerging markets, as this reduces dependence on granted priority review to over 350 drugs which fit into one of the currently challenged U. S. market.
We also favour the categories including innovative drugs, drugs addressing companies with generic portfolios biased toward near-term urgent unmet clinical needs, and first-to-market generics.
opportunities targeting difficult to formulate products, During the same year, the Chinese FDA issued comprehensive including injectables, depots, patches, and certain orals and guidance for the mandating of bioequivalence testing, also topicals.
We closely scrutinise companies compliance referred to as quality consistency evaluation, for many of the histories and prefer those with manufacturing redundancies, generic drugs currently marketed in China, to confirm that at least for key products in important markets.
Lastly, we keep they truly have equivalent efficacy to the original brand.
In a keen eye on leverage and are intensely focused on the cash December, the Chinese FDA published the first batch of 17 generating abilities of our portfolio companies.
generic drugs that have passed quality consistency evaluation.
We expect more batches and favourable policies for those drugs to come in 2018.
The Chinese government also made significant progress Sven H. Borho and Trevor M. Polischuk towards reimbursement of pharmaceutical products.
The OrbiMed Capital LLC long-anticipated new version National Drug Reimbursement Portfolio Manager List NRDL consisting of 2,535 drugs was released in February 15 June 2018 2017.
The number of reimbursable drugs expanded from the version in 2009 by 18% and we believe the expansion is positive for the industry growth in the next few years.
In July 2017, another 36 high-priced drugs were enrolled into NRDL with a range of price cuts after negotiation with the government: this was the very first time that the price negation mechanism was adopted for NDRL in China.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 19
