249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 12 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Sven Borho Trevor Polischuk Overall, since the Companys inception in 1995 to 31 March Performance Review 2018, the total return of the Companys net asset value per The financial year ended 31 March 2018 was defined by a share is 2,812.7%, equivalent to a compound annual return of return of industry fundamentals driving share price returns: 15.8%.
This compares to the blended benchmark rise of although global currency moves did provide some notable 1,143.9%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 11.6%.
With the shock of Brexit and a Republican win in the U. S. Presidential election in 2016 moved to the backburner, Contributors to Performance investors refocused on more pertinent growth drivers Overall, outperformance was generated by a mix of sub-sector throughout the year.
In the healthcare sector that meant allocation and stock picking across emerging biotechnology, reported financials, new drug approvals, pipeline healthcare services, emerging markets, and life science advancements, and merger and acquisition M&A activity tools diagnostics.
In emerging biotechnology, overweight represented the principal reasons for share price movements.
positioning and stock picking created approximately 3.5% of However, despite a solid first nine months, healthcare equities both positive absolute contribution and alpha generation.
In were once again stumped by macro factors that clipped much healthcare services, astute stock picking and catalyst-driven of the gains in the final quarter of the financial year.
trading led to over 3.0% of positive contribution and an Without question, the start of the Companys financial year additional 2.5% in alpha generation.
In emerging markets, began with renewed optimism due to the pro-business agenda overweight allocation resulted in approximately 1.5% of from U. S. President Donald Trump that the market embraced.
positive absolute contribution and alpha generation.
Finally, in Whilst the Presidents first year has not been without life science tools diagnostics, stock picking also created controversy in part due to his excessive use of his Twitter positive returns, with over 1.0% of contribution and nearly account the penultimate legislation of the year was the 0.5% of alpha generation.
passage of a major U. S. tax reform bill that positively impacted The top contributor during the year was BeiGene, a corporates bottom line across industries.
China-based, commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company Overall, volatility remained low throughout the year, until a late focused on the development of cancer therapies with year spike that was short lived.
In fact, the VIX the Chicago significant commercial exposure in the large Chinese market Board Options Exchange measure of volatility of the S&P 500, as well as worldwide.
The shares performed strongly during remained remarkably low and range bound in the first nine the year following the announcement of a collaboration with months of the financial year, recording an all-time low in Celgene on the development and commercialisation of its solid November 2017 8.56 before spiking in February 2018 and tumour treatment candidate, tislelizumab, an anti-PD-1 reaching a multi-year high 50.30 in tandem with a broad antibody, and the expansion of BeiGenes commercial footprint market sell off.
The cause was multifold, including monetary in the large Chinese market to include Celgenes oncology tightening by the U. S. Federal Reserve, regulatory products Abraxane, Revlimid and Vidaza.
BeiGene also uncertainties around major technology companies, inflationary continued to progress its own oncology pipeline including the fears, and continued opaqueness around U. S. policy.
The result BTK inhibitor, zanubrutinib, which has shown promising data was a spike in correlation that saw equity markets across in B cell malignancies, and pamiparib, a PARP inhibitor in industry sectors and around the world swoon.
development for the treatment of solid tumours.
The net result was a modest decline in global healthcare Another top contributor was Intuitive Surgical.
The MSCI World Healthcare Index, measured on a net develops robotic systems and associated instrument sets for total return, sterling adjusted basis, declined by 2.5% for the use in a broad array of surgical procedures.
Robotic procedure year ended 31 March 2018.
However, we are pleased to report volumes accelerated in 2017 against a strong 2016 comparison.
that the Company was able to outperform the Benchmark Moreover, new system placements, a leading indicator for result and post positive returns for this period.
The net asset procedure utilisation strongly outperformed analyst value per share total return was 2.8% and the share price expectations.
Hospital adoption and enthusiasm for robotics total return was 5.3%.
have dramatically increased in new general surgical categories, notably hernia repair.
Competition concerns have abated Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 12 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 13 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review somewhat as launches have been further delayed and details The California-based Edwards Lifesciences develops products reveal less comprehensive solutions than expected.
Further, and services to treat late-stage cardiovascular disease, investor enthusiasm for the companys flexible catheter system including transcatheter heart valve replacements, surgical currently in development has increased, leading to a strong heart valve repair products, and haemodynamic monitoring multi-year outlook for the company.
The result was a steady systems for critical care settings.
The companys share price increase in the share price throughout the year.
rebounded strongly off of a weak beginning to 2017 with a powerful cadence of earnings reports throughout the year Juno Therapeutics is a development-stage biotechnology after investors were initially concerned over slowing market company focused on chimeric antigen receptor CAR T cells growth.
More recently, the company also held an investor day which are genetically engineered to combat cancer.
Junos event that highlighted continued runway for market lead candidate, JCAR017, has shown a potentially penetration and new opportunities in mitral heart valve best-in-class profile with an impressive six-month complete therapy.
This combination of strong outperformance and response rate of 50% in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B recovery in investor enthusiasm over the pipeline has resulted cell lymphoma DLBCL and a substantially improved safety in material stock price appreciation.
and tolerability profile over other CAR T products.
In January 2018, Celgene acquired Juno for a 91% premium to its Detractors from Performance share price.
As is typical in healthcare investing, detractors in the financial Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine is the largest drug innovator in year were largely idiosyncratic in nature, with individual stocks China in terms of research and development R&D from different sectors declining primarily due to unexpected expenditure, spending nearly U. S. $300 million in 2017.
The negative catalysts or news flow.
A main culprit, often resulting company focuses on oncology and surgery drugs.
Besides its in acute share price declines, is the failure of a clinical trial.
leadership in the Chinese pharmaceutical market, the That said, negative offsets to performance were limited.
Of company has been expanding its footprint into the global most import was our overweight allocation to large market.
It has approximately ten generic drugs approved in the capitalisation biotechnology stocks.
The group performed U. S. and has licensed out many pipeline candidates to poorly when measured in pound sterling terms in the financial overseas pharmaceutical companies.
In 2017, the company year and sold off during the market tumult in the last quarter accomplished some significant milestones, leading to strong of the year.
This resulted in an approximate 3.0% absolute loss share price appreciation.
First, Hengrui became the first and 1.5% of negative alpha.
Other detractors were more among its Chinese peers to start a Phase III clinical trial in modest.
Alpha headwinds from medical devices due to stock immuno-oncology, notably for their anti-PD-1 monoclonal picking totalled 1.25%.
For generic pharmaceuticals, our antibody.
The trial targeted over 400 patients with late-stage performance was impeded by approximately 0.75%.
Finally, non-small cell lung cancer.
Second, the company filed for large capitalisation pharmaceuticals combined for less than conditional approval of pyrotinib, a novel, irreversible dual 2.0% of negative contribution but the alpha impact was neutral tyrosine kinase inhibitor, based on strong survival data from a given our underweight positioning in the sector.
Phase II study in metastatic breast cancer patients.
Third, On a single stock basis, the largest detractor during the year Hengruis tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the treatment of gastric belongs to a different descriptor, such as reversion to the cancer, apatinib, was added to the National Drug mean or perhaps even profit taking.
Wright Medical Reimbursement List in China, resulting in a spike in patient develops joint replacement devices, primarily for shoulder, foot demand.
The companys dominant leadership in the Chinese and ankle, trauma and sports medicine procedures, as well as pharmaceutical market is likely sustainable, thanks to the orthobiologic products.
In the previous financial year, our companys strong in-house research, clinical development, investment in the company resulted in the largest contribution and commercialisation capabilities, coupled with continued to performance.
Yet the companys share price had a favourable government healthcare policies.
challenging time in the current financial year, as the company We believe China will continue to gain market share in the embarked on a sales force expansion plan, accelerated it, and global pharmaceutical market and become a driving force for later experienced disruption and a lower ramp to productivity the innovation in the healthcare sector, such as biological than expected.
Anticipated competition also increased as a key drugs, cell therapy, and healthcare artificial intelligence.
competitor, Zimmer Holdings, launched a stemless shoulder Therefore, we expect to maintain a healthy exposure in the product to compete with Wrights Simpliciti product, a key China market.
high growth product for the company.
Nevertheless, there are Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 13 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 14 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review reasons for optimism for the company as the new sales force tumour treatment candidate epacadostat, a IDO-1 enzyme matures, the company garners new product approvals, and inhibitor, in combination with PD-1 inhibitors in metastatic launches several key new products over the course of 2018 melanoma.
However, investors grew increasingly skeptical and beyond.
about this pipeline product prior to its pivotal phase III trial readout.
Celgene is a large capitalisation biotechnology company with a global presence and a focus on the therapeutic categories of Coherus Biosciences is a pure-play biosimilars company haematology and immunology inflammation.
The stock working on developing biosimilar versions to a number of performed well during the first half of the Companys financial blockbuster biotechnology products, including Neulasta, year but announced a number of negative developments in Enbrel, and Humira.
The company encountered several October 2017 that led to a precipitous drop in investor setbacks in the financial year, two of which were of most confidence and a corresponding drop in share price.
First, the companys lead programme is the company announced that a key pipeline asset under development of a biosimilar version of Neulasta, a white blood development for the treatment of Crohns disease failed to cell growth factor marketed by Amgen.
The stock gapped show sufficient efficacy in a Phase III trial.
Second, the lower after the FDA rejected the filing and asked the company company announced lower-than-expected sales for its to conduct further testing of its product using a more sensitive blockbuster psoriasis drug Otezla apremilast in the third assay prior to approval.
The delay reduces Coherus time to quarter.
And finally, but not coincidentally, the company market advantage versus other biosimilar competitors.
The lowered its long term 2020 financial guidance.
This company suffered additional setbacks in their attempt to combination of events led to more than a 30% drop in share overturn a key patent for Humira, Abbvies U. S. $18 billion price in local currency over the course of a month.
biologic drug for rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and inflammatory bowel disease.
This likely delays the launch of Unfortunately, the share price in Celgene bore more weakness Coherus biosimilar version of the drug in the U. S. to the early when the company announced that their multiple sclerosis to mid-2020s.
late stage candidate, ozanimod, received a refusal-to-file letter from the U. S. Food and Drug Administration FDA, Derivative Overlay Strategy effectively and surprisingly denying regulatory review for this OrbiMed continues to employ a derivative overlay strategy to novel drug candidate.
Moreover, the setbacks at Celgene glean market intelligence and offer additional contributed to a broader selloff in large capitalisation outperformance.
While the strategy has generated meaningful biotechnology stocks as whole.
Whilst Celgenes valuation outperformance since 2006, the cumulative contribution over plummeted, a near correction did not happen to close the the last several years has been modestly positive.
The options financial year as investors put the stock in the sin bin.
strategy is primarily used to create target effective entry prices As a leader in the revolution in the field of immuno-oncology, for favoured stocks, leverage specific catalysts and capture investor expectations for Mercks Keytruda pembrolizumab special situation opportunities.
Two derivative specialists were understandably high.
Only Mercks Keytruda, through an implement the strategy in careful consultation with the accelerated process, has been able to obtain approval for the portfolio management team.
OrbiMed adheres to strictly treatment of frontline, advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
defined risk limits and in practice maintains a net exposure The share price had reflected this success for first half of the well below the 5% restriction.
However, when the company announced that In addition to the derivative overlay strategy, we utilise the confirmatory trial for Keytruda in frontline lung would be thematic over-the-counter basket swaps for both tactical and delayed for over a year and the European filing for Keytruda strategic investment purposes.
Swaps are an efficient and was being withdrawn, the company lost more than U. S. $25 effective way to gain exposure to a therapeutic category or to a billion in market capitalisation.
specific theme for example oncology: M&A: geography.
Incyte is a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on novel therapeutics for unmet needs in the treatment of cancer.
Shares in Incyte declined as the company Sven H. Borho and Trevor M. Polischuk faced multiple setbacks during the financial year, including an OrbiMed Capital LLC unexpected delay in the U. S. regulatory filing of its rheumatoid Portfolio Manager arthritis treatment Olumiant baricitinib with partner Eli Lilly.
15 June 2018 Incyte had previously shown promising early data of its solid Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 14 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018
