249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 11 Strategic Report OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed was founded in 1989 and has evolved over time to be industry veterans, and finance professionals with over 20 years one of the largest dedicated healthcare investment firms in of experience.
OrbiMed has managed the Companys portfolio The firm has a global investment horizon and the OrbiMed since its launch in 1995.
Strong returns and many investment footprint now spans three continents with offices in New York, awards signify the aggregate talents of this exceptional team.
San Francisco, Herzliya Israel, Shanghai, and Mumbai.
OrbiMed had over U. S. $14 billion in assets under The lead managers with responsibility for the Companys management as of 31 March 2018, across a range of funds, portfolio are as follows: including investment trusts, hedge funds, mutual funds, Sven H. Borho, CFA, is a founder and and private equity funds.
Sven heads the public equity team and he is the Investment strategy and process portfolio manager for OrbiMeds public Within the guidelines set by the Board, the OrbiMed team equity and hedge funds.
He has been a work constantly to identify sources of outperformance, or portfolio manager for the firms funds since alpha, with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare, 1993 and has played an integral role in the there are many primary sources of alpha generation, growth of OrbiMeds asset management activities.
Clinical events such as the Hestarted his career in 1991 when he joined OrbiMeds publication of new clinical trial data is a prominent example predecessor firm as a Senior Analyst covering European and historically has been the largest source of share price pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies volatility.
Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by worldwide.
Sven studied business administration at U. S. European, or Japanese regulatory authorities are also Bayreuth University in Germany and received a M. Sc.
Subsequent new product launches are Econs.
Accounting and Finance, from The London School carefully tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal of Economics: he is a citizen of both Germany and Sweden.
events and, of course, merger and acquisition activity.
D. is a Partner at OrbiMed focused on The team has a global focus with a universe of coverage that the global pharmaceutical industry.
Trevor covers the entire spectrum of companies, from early stage joined OrbiMed in 2003 and became a companies with pre-clinical assets to fully integrated Partner in 2011.
Previously, he worked at biopharmaceutical companies.
The universe of actively Lehman Brothers as a Senior Research covered companies is approaching 1,000.
Analyst covering the U. S. pharmaceutical OrbiMed emphasises investments in companies with industry.
Trevor began his career at Warner underappreciated products in the pipeline, high quality Lambert as a member of the Global management teams, and adequate financial resources.
Marketing Planning team within Parke-Davis.
Trevor holds a A disciplined portfolio construction process is utilised to Doctorate in Neuropharmacology & Gross Human Anatomy and ensure the portfolio is focused on high conviction positions.
A. from Queen's University, Canada.
Finally, the portfolio is subject to a rigorous risk management process to moderate portfolio volatility.
The team The OrbiMed Investment Team continues to expand and now has over 80 investment professionals that cover all aspects of research, trading, finance, and compliance.
This includes over 20 degree holders with MD and or PhD credentials, healthcare Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 11
