STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL WPP IS A CREATIVE TRANSFORMATION COMPANY We build better futures for our clients through an integrated offer of communications, experience, commerce andtechnology WPP is a creative transformation company with a Bybringingthem together WPP can meet clients Our people are our most important assets and service offering that allows us to meet the present needs as they react to the changing marketplace ourability to attract and retain diverse talent is and future needs of our clients.
Our business model and complex social, economic, and environmental acritical element of our competitiveness.
is client-centric, and we leverage resource and pressures, while expanding our own business in Compensation and incentives are aimed at making skills across our internal structures to provide the high-growth sectors.
WPP a home for the best and brightest, and are best possible service.
WPP works with 369 ofthe aligned with our strategy for growth.
Our delivery Fortune Global 500, all 30 of the Dow Jones 30, Revenues are principally derived from fees for model is based on an increasingly flexible cost and71of the NASDAQ 100. services on a rate per hour or per project basis.
structure, with the use of consultants, freelancers Client engagements include fixed-fee contracts, and incentives allowing an agile response to any We are committed to the principles of retainer agreements and commissions on media market volatility.
sustainability in business, through our assignments placements.
Some client arrangements include for clients, our substantial pro bono work and the performance incentive provisions designed to Our transformation programme, encompassing management of our own operations.
We aim to linkrevenue to quantitative and qualitative goals.
anew vision and offer, a simplified structure build better futures not only for our people and including a consistent shared service infrastructure clients but our wider communities.
We focus on revenue less pass-through costs as a and the development of Campus co-locations, reflection of top-line performance.
Pass-through investments in creativity, technology and talent, Our networks and agencies operate in all major costs comprise fees paid to external suppliers and a new emphasis on building the Companys global markets, offering a range of services across where they are engaged to perform part or all of a culture, will enhance WPPs proposition to four key areas: communications, experience, specific project and are charged directly to clients clientsand drive top-line growth.
Each of these areas predominantly media and datacollection costs.
iscritical to success for modern clients.
