249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 06 Strategic Report Investment Objective and Policy The Company invests in the global healthcare sector with the objective of achieving a high level of capital growth.
In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company invests worldwide in a diversified portfolio of shares in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and related securities in the healthcare sector.
It uses gearing, and derivative transactions to enhance returns and mitigate risk.
Performance is measured against the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis Benchmark.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Investment strategy assets in other closed ended investment companies The implementation of the Companys Investment Objective including investment trusts listed on the London Stock has been delegated to OrbiMed by Frostrow as AIFM under Exchange, except where the investment companies the Boards and Frostrows supervision and guidance.
themselves have stated investment policies to invest no Details of OrbiMeds investment strategy and approach are more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended set out in the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 12 to 14. investment companies including investment trusts listed While the Boards strategy is to allow flexibility in managing on the London Stock Exchange.
the investments, in order to manage investment risk it has Derivative strategy and limits imposed various investment, gearing and derivative In line with the Investment Objective, derivatives are guidelines and limits, within which Frostrow and OrbiMed are employed, when appropriate, in an effort to enhance returns required to manage the investments, as set out below.
and to improve the risk-return profile of the Companys Any material changes to the Investment Objective, Policy and portfolio.
There are two types of derivatives currently Benchmark or the investment, gearing and derivative employed within the portfolio: Options and Equity Swaps: guidelines and limits require approval from shareholders.
The Board has set the following limits within which derivative Investment limits and guidelines exposures are managed: The Company will not invest more than 15% of the portfolio Derivative transactions excluding equity swaps can be in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition: used to mitigate risk and or enhance capital returns and At least 60% of the portfolio will normally be invested in will be restricted to a net exposure of 5% of the portfolio: larger companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of at and least U. S. $5bn : Equity Swaps may be used in order to meet the Companys At least 20% of the portfolio will normally be invested in investment objective of achieving a high level of capital smaller companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of growth, and counterparty exposure through these is less than U. S. $5bn : restricted to 12% of the gross assets of the Company at the time of acquisition.
Investment in unquoted securities will not exceed 10% of the portfolio at the time of acquisition: Further details on how derivatives are employed can be found in note 16 beginning on page 64.
A maximum of 5% of the portfolio, at the time of acquisition, may be invested in each of debt instruments, The Company does not currently hedge against foreign convertibles and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical currency exposure.
and biotechnology companies: Gearing limits A maximum of 20% of the portfolio, at the time of The Board and Frostrow believe that shareholder returns can acquisition, may be invested in companies in each of the be enhanced through the use of borrowings at appropriate following sectors: times for the purpose of investment.
The Board has set a healthcare equipment and supplies maximum gearing level, through borrowing, of 20% of the net assets.
OrbiMed are responsible for deciding on the healthcare technology appropriate level of gearing at any one time, subject to acting healthcare providers and services: within the 20% limit.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 06 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp01-pp25 03 07 2018 12:25 Page 07 Strategic Report Investment Objective and Policy Leverage limits Dividend Policy Under the AIFMD the Company is required to set maximum It is the Companys policy to pay out dividends to shareholders leverage limits.
Leverage under the AIFMD is defined as any at least to the extent required to maintain investment trust method by which the total exposure of an AIF is increased.
status for each financial year.
The Company has two current sources of leverage: the overdraft facility, which is subject to the gearing limit: and, derivatives, which are subject to the separate derivative limits.
The Board and Frostrow have set a maximum leverage limit of 140% on both the commitment and gross basis.
Further details on the gearing and leverage calculations, and how total exposure through derivatives is calculated, is included in the Glossary beginning on page 72.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 07
