qxp 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 26 Governance Board of Directors Sir Martin Smith Sarah Bates Sven Borho Independent Non-Executive Chairman.
Joined the Board in 2007 and became Chairman Joined the Board in 2013.
Sir Martin Smith has been involved in the Sarah is currently non-executive Chair of Sven H. Borho, CFA, is a founder and Managing financial services sector for more than 40 years.
Sarah has announced her Partner of OrbiMed.
Sven heads the public equity He was a founder and senior partner of Phoenix intention to retire from her responsibilities at team and he is the portfolio manager for Securities, becoming Chairman of European St. Jamess Place and it is expected that this will OrbiMeds public equity and hedge funds.
He has Investment Banking for Donaldson, Lufkin & take place in early July 2018.
Sarah is also nonbeen a portfolio manager for the firms funds Jenrette DLJ following the acquisition of executive Chair of Polar Capital Technology Trust since 1993 and has played an integral role in the Phoenix by DLJ.
He was subsequently a founder plc, and a former Chair of the Association of growth of OrbiMeds asset management activities.
of New Star Asset Management Ltd. and has a Investment Companies.
Sarah is a member of He started his career in 1991 when he joined number of other directorships and business the Investment Committee of the Universities OrbiMeds predecessor firm as a Senior Analyst interests, including being Chairman of GP Superannuation Scheme and from 1 July 2018, of covering European pharmaceutical firms and Bullhound, and a directorship with Oxford the Investment Committee of the BBC Pension biotechnology companies worldwide.
Sarah is Chair of Trustees of the studied business administration at Bayreuth Diversity Group Charity and is a Trustee of the University in Germany and received a His pro-bono interests include serving as Liver Group Charity.
She also has a number of M. Sc.
Accounting and Finance, from Chairman of the Orchestra of the Age of voluntary appointments on charity investment TheLondon School of Economics: he is a citizen Enlightenment and serving on the boards of a committees.
Sarah attended Cambridge of both Germany and Sweden.
number of other arts organisations including the University and has an MBA from London Glyndebourne Arts Trust and also ClientEarth.
Sven does not sit on any of the Companys Board Business School.
He has chaired the English National Opera and is Committees.
a Governor of the Ditchley Foundation.
Shareholding in the Company: 7,200 Shareholding in the Company: Nil Shareholding in the Company: 11,871 Beneficial 2,725 Trustee Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 26 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp26-pp31.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:26 Page 27 Governance Board of Directors Dr David Holbrook Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Doug McCutcheon Independent Non-Executive Director.
A qualified physician, David manages the new Humphrey is a Director of JPM Claverhouse Doug is the President of Longview Asset seed fund established by LifeArc formerly Investment Trust plc and Allianz Technology Management Ltd. and Gormley Limited, known as MRC Technology.
He was formerly Chairman of independent investment firms.
Until 2012, Trustee of the Liver Group Charity.
He was Fidelity European Values PLC and a Director of Doug was an investment banker at S. G. formerly Investment Director of the life science Murray Income Trust PLC and BlackRock Warburg and then UBS for 25 years, most activities of the seed fund of the University of Commodities Income Investment Trust plc.
recently as the head of Healthcare Investment Cambridge.
David attended London and Oxford Prior to this Humphrey was a fund manager Banking for Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Universities, and has an MBA from Harvard and Director of Schroder Investment Asia-Pacific.
Doug is involved in several Business School.
He has held senior positions Management Limited and in a 22 year career philanthropic organisations with a focus on in a number of blue chip biopharmaceutical was a member of their Group Investment and healthcare and education.
He attended Queens organisations including GlaxoSmithKline and Asset Allocation Committees.
Prior to joining University, Canada.
Schroders, he was with Peat Marwick Mitchell Doug is Chairman of the Management & Co now KPMG where he qualified as a David is Chairman of the Nominations Engagement & Remuneration Committee.
Committee and is the Senior Independent Shareholding in the Company: Director.
Humphrey is Chairman of the Audit 15,000 Committee.
Shareholding in the Company: 1,094 Shareholding in the Company: 1,500 All Directors seek either appointment or re-appointment to the Board at the Annual General Meeting each year.
Meeting attendance The number of scheduled meetings held during the year of the Board and its Committees, and each Directors attendance level, is shown below: Management Engagement & Nominations Remuneration Type and number of meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Committee held in 2017 18 4 2 1 1 Sir Martin Smith 4 1 1 Sarah Bates 4 2 1 1 Dr David Holbrook 4 2 1 1 Samuel D. Isaly 3 Humphrey van der Klugt 4 2 1 1 Doug McCutcheon 4 2 1 1 Left the Board on 12 January 2018.
Mr Isaly was not a member of any of the Companys Committees.
Sir Martin is not a member of the Audit Committee Sven Borho joined the Board on 7 June 2018.
He does not sit on any of the Companys Committees.
All of the serving Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on 14 September 2017.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 27
