STRATEGIC REPORT Since the birth of modern brand marketing, 6BN OF OTHER marketers have debated one specific question: for maximum efficiency, what proportion of their marketing expenditure PEOPLES MONEY: should be allocated to achieve an immediate sales effect: and what proportion to THE WATERTIGHT protect and enhance a brands long-term profitability?
CASE FOR BUILDING An innocent person, addressing this question, might be puzzled.
Surely the YOUR BRANDS answer is obvious?
After all, the long-term is nothing more complicated than an extension of the short-term.
Keep getting the shortBY JEREMY BULLMORE term right and, hey presto, the long-term solves itself.
But a greater understanding of the nature of brands has committed this attractive theory to oblivion because we now know some untidy truths.
84 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 JEREMY BULLMORE STRATEGIC REPORT Short-term and long-term targets are Before the internet, activation was achieved Lets now return to those 996 advertising different in kind: can be best achieved mainly through the use of coupons in the campaigns that were forensically dissected through different media: demand different press and telephone numbers.
Today, online by the authors of the report.
forms of creativity: differ greatly in their techniques offer equivalent opportunities: susceptibility to research: and while one their function is the same and so are their Between them, over that time period, maybenefit volume growth, the other advantages.
They are simple to understand: theyspent an estimated total of 6 billion is more likely to maximise profitability.
you can pre-test them easily and cheaply: on media exposure.
Between them, these imbalances make and their pay-back value can be instantly That expenditure delivered an estimated comparisons difficult so the allocation assessed.
But the evidence is clear: total Return on Marketing Investment ofresources to each may fall well below activation-only campaigns do little or nothing ROMI of 211 per cent or 23.2 billion.
to enhance the overall desirability of a brand.
Emotional campaigns were more than Indeed, some promotions, in particular price twice as efficient as rational ones.
These highly significant findings and promotions, may actually cheapen a brand in Creatively awarded campaigns, as many more are derived from a report first the minds of its potential users.
identified by the Gunn Report, were published six years ago.
Today, its lessons almost twice as likely to generate positive deserve even more urgent attention.
Successful brands, as every bit of evidence results as non-awarded campaigns.
shows, need both activation and brandThe report is called The Long and the building.
Of the two, brand-building or They delivered sales, yes: but even Short of It: Balancing Short and  campaigns are usually more importantly, these campaigns Term Marketing Strategies.
It was written the more valuable but also by far the more delivered buoyant brands, more resistant by LesBinet and Peter Field for the UKs difficult to create, to explain, to test and to to competitors price inducements and Institute of Practitioners in Advertising IPA measure.
Activation campaigns are usually confident in their future.
and their source material was the worlds rational and fact-based.
By contrast, the most most comprehensive library of provenly successful brand-building campaigns are low To commit, say, 60 per cent of your effective advertising campaigns: the IPA on fact but high on emotion.
They seldom marketing budget to advertising designed Effectiveness Databank.
take immediate effect but over time build tobuild, nourish, sustain, protect and and refresh an emotional bond between a advance your most valuable assets At the time of the report, theDatabank brand and its public.
They may take the form shouldnt have to be an act of faith.
held data from 996 campaigns that had of a creative idea which seems not directly Historyand6billion pounds worth of been entered in the biennial national and pertinent to the brand or its function.
They evidence are unequivocally on your side.
international effectiveness competitions are fiendishly difficult to pre-test and it between 1980 and 2010.
Thedata contained may be many months before theres any in each of those case studies had been hardevidence of their return on investment.
confirmed and formally endorsed by their respective clients.
An additional data source The creation of such campaigns is the was the Gunn Report, a record of advertising ultimate test of any advertising agency.
campaigns that had won at 46 major creative They cannot be conjured up by algorithms, competitions around the world and the bots or even management consultants.
closest approximation that exists to an They require a deep understanding of both objective ranking of that elusive quality brands and human beings with an added called creativity.
The media that serve them best are the big, broad, publicmedia.
Vocabulary can be confusing, particularly At a time when theres so much emphasis when discussing the long-term role for on the achievement of quarterly targets, Many thanks to the IPA for their permission advertising.
Andrew Ehrenberg called for monitored by metrics, obtaining approval to quote so liberally from The Long and the salience, others call for the creation of brand for such campaigns has never been more Short of It and for their help in the preparation fame.
The authors of The Long and the Short difficult: and thats why The Long and of this essay.
Any errors and omissions are mine: not theirs.
of It call the short-term function activation the Short of It is an even more imperative and the long-term, brand-building so well document than it was in 2013.
Two other reports from the IPA have followed stick with those: though it may be helpful to The Long and the Short of It, both of them think of activation as effecting an immediate highly recommended: Media In Focus, sale and brand-building as creating and Marketing Effectiveness in the Digital Era: maintaining saleability.
and Effectiveness in Context, A Manual for Brand Building.
85 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 86 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans letter 88 Our Board 90 Corporate governance report 92 Nomination and Governance Committee report 98 Audit Committee report 99 Compliance with the Code 102 Compensation Committee report 104 87 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018
