Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 04 Ocado at a glance Established in 2000 and listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 2010, Ocado is the UKs, and the worlds, largest dedicated online grocery retailer providing and delivering quality groceries and other products directly to customers homes.
Our objective is to be more than a supermarket, improving the experience for our customers allowing them to feel good shopping, while building a business that will deliver attractive financial returns.
The worlds leading online only grocery retailer Challenging the traditional retail business model WE ARE Cash generative Cashow covers interest and replacement capex Investing for future growth Carefully investing to secure our future growth and investor returns A significant market opportunity Huge grocery market and rapidly growing shift into WE online grocery shopping HAVE A unique business model with specic structural Centralised stock picking model driven by advantages technology A superior offer to customers which drives online Wider range, competitive prices and superior adoption service Proprietary intellectual property IP creating a Our own software and know-how powers our best in class operation operation and sets us apart from our competition A completely scalable business with considerable Operational leverage converts into margin as we inherent operational leverage scale the business Create a virtuous cycle of sustainable growth Increasing scale drives growth and returns, which WE and profitability can be reinvested to continue fuelling growth and PLAN improving profits TO Further enhance our offer to customers to drive Drive the feel good shopping experience for growth customers Leverage our technological know-how Utilise technology to improve the customer experience, growth, profitability and develop the business Deliver additional value from our IP Monetise our proprietary IP platform to enhance investor returns Service Delivering products in perfect condition, on time.
Measured Choice by service Providing the delivery KPIs.
widest choice of quality products.
Unique model Measured Measured Unique through Technology and logistics through SKU and internal skills enable a lower cost category growth.
proposition customer model to invest in the surveys.
exceptional value and confidence in pricing.
OCADO AT A GLANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 05 MARKETPLACE AND BUSINESS MODEL Ocado operates in a very large, but competitive, UK We utilise a different business model, built on technology and marketplace.
According to IGD over 163 billion was spent logistics skills rather than real estate, to full orders.
We invest in the UK grocery market in 2012, with food and grocery in this platform to deliver an ever more compelling proposition representing 54p in every 1 of retail spending.
The financial to a wider set of customers, and to drive growth through the creation of a virtuous cycle of investment, customer demand pressures on consumers has increased the importance of creating a differentiated offer which is understood and is and financial return.
We take significant costs out of the traditional grocery retail business model.
This allows us to attractive to customers.
invest in a market leading fullment and delivery service for our We are an online only grocery retailer.
While customers have customers, and build a sustainable, profitable business for been slower to adopt online for their grocery requirements than our investors.
in other general merchandise categories, online is increasingly important to grocery shoppers.
Various market estimates suggest 4-5% of food and grocery sales are now made online.
Faster broadband speeds, improved customer interfaces and better service provision has supported this growth.
Grocery retail is dominated by the large store formats hypermarkets, supermarkets and superstores which account for over 65% of sales.
Common to all formats across the sector is physical store space, with increasing space driving growth historically.
WHERE WE OPERATE Ocado marketplace LEEDS Our reach and delivery area now covers over 70% of the UK population.
We full MANCHESTER orders from our centralised Customer Fullment Centres in Hateld CFC1 and Dordon, Warwickshire CFC2.
From these CFCs we directly deliver orders to local catchment customers, CFC 2 with the remainder of orders being COVENTRY shipped to spoke sites, from where local delivery takes place.
OXFORD CFC 1 Key CFC DARTFORD Spoke WHITE CITY BRISTOL WEYBRIDGE WIMBLEDON SOUTHAMPTON Ocado delivery area covers over 70% of UK population.
OCADO AT A GLANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
