Directors report Business review South West Water continued Financial strength and operational excellence Business performance South West Water has continued its excellent start to K5 with strong operational delivery and high standards of customer service coupled with strong financial performance.
The company continues to outperform targeted operating cost reductions and capital programme efficiencies.
An increase in revenue and good operational cost control has resulted in South West Waters operating profit increasing by 14.9million.
With consistently low nancing costs, profit before tax has increased 9.8% from last year.
The company is front-end loading delivery of the required 2.8% per annum average operating cost efficiencies with 5.1% per annum delivered in the first two years of this K period 2010-2015.
This is being achieved through changing operational ways of working: right-sourcing and innovative contracting arrangements: energy procurement and reduced usage: and the rationalisation of administration and support services.
Capital expenditure in the year was 131 million, a 5% increase on last year.
The main focus of investment remains on the maintenance of existing assets.
The reliability of our network is 1 illustrated by our operating assets achieving stable serviceability for all operational areas.
Other key areas are: increasing our water resource availability and ensuring the resilience of our network even in extreme weather conditions: improving drinking water quality: delivering environmental improvements: and achieving high standards of bathing water quality.
efficiency performance on the K5 capital programme remains 2 on track to deliver 5% outperformance of the Ofwat 2009 Final Determination.
Pure Water Drinking water quality South West Water prides itself on achieving industry-leading water quality results.
In 2011 the quality of our water, as measured by Mean Zonal Compliance MZC, was equal to its best ever.
This marks the third year out of the past five in which a score of 99.98% has been attained.
The continued high standards of our drinking water can be directly attributed to our ongoing investment and innovation in our treatment processes.
In addition our water quality has benefited from a rigorous mains improvement programme and the implementation of a taste and odour strategy.
In 2011 12 South West Water made significant investments in drinking water quality, including upgrades to water treatment works at Drift Cornwall and Tottiford Devon.
Leakage control South West Water has maintained its exemplary industry-leading performance in leakage control, as it has done every year since targets were introduced.
In 2011 12 we successfully surpassed our previous record to achieve a record low of 81.3 megalitres lost on Top: Construction under way on the new Coswarth Reservoir, 1 Serviceability is the capability of a system of assets to deliver a reference level of service to near Newquay, Cornwall.
customers and to the environment now and into the future.
Serviceability is deemed to be stable when the assessment of trends in a dened set of service and asset performance indicators Bottom: Mel Selvester, one of our leakage inspectors, checks the demonstrates that service is in line with the reference level of service and, by inference, is likely to remain so into the future.
status of mains on Plymouth seafront.
2 Using 2009 Final Determination estimates of Construction Output Price Index COPI.
14 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements South West Water continues to outperform targeted operating cost reductions and capital programme efficiencies while investing in the long-term resilience of its network assets.
average per day over a twelve month period.
In addition we have beaten the rolling three-year average.
The strong leakage control performance has been due to a number of combined factors including swift leak detection and response times: the efficiency of our remote Phased Utilisation of Remote Operating Systems PUROS : and improved communication with our customers using both traditional and web-based platforms.
Water resources Despite below average rainfall last year, South West Water avoided putting water restrictions in place for a 15th consecutive summer.
This was achieved primarily as a result of strategic investment in expanding our reservoir system and distribution network.
Now fully operational, Park and Stannon lakes in Cornwall played a key role in ensuring resources were maintained during 2011 12.
In addition South West Water also made use of pumped storage schemes at Wimbleball, Stithians and Colliford reservoirs.
This involves abstracting water from rivers, while levels are healthy, to supplement the natural inow to our reservoirs.
South West Waters resource network has been further expanded in the past year, most notably through the addition of Coswarth service reservoir, near Newquay, Cornwall which will supply around 9,000 homes.
South West Water is also developing its first new borehole in 18 years at Greatwell, East Devon.
Our 2012 position The national concerns over drought in 2012 serve to highlight Top: Stannon Lake, Cornwall.
the importance of efficient water use.
South West Water is Bottom: Eleanor Dodd, helping a customer at the Source committed to a strategy that maximises the yield of its supplies customer contact centre at Peninsula House, Exeter, Devon.
and assets and we continue to raise awareness about how to use waterwisely.
Based on our current position we are confident of a 16th consecutive summer without water restrictions.
As would be expected, South West Water is monitoring the situation and will make the best use of its resources accordingly.
Pure Service Customer satisfaction At the core of South West Waters Pure Service strategy are the needs of our customers.
Since 2010 11 customer satisfaction has been measured by the Service Incentive Mechanism SIM.
This takes into account various customer service measures including the number of written complaints and the results of customer satisfaction surveys.
South West Water achieved a 15% improvement in customer service between 2010 11 and 2011 12 based on its SIM score 2010 11: 58.1, 2011 12: 66.9 and a 78% improvement over two years.
There were 25% fewer written complaints than the previous year.
Over the last two years written customer complaints have halved.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
