Directors report Business review Strategic Q&A Delivering on our strategy Overall2011 12 was another successful twelve months forPennon.
Group Director of Finance David Dupont, South West Water Chief Executive Chris Loughlin and Viridor Chief Executive Colin Drummond discuss a year of achievement and outline their strategic approach to the main challenges they face.
What were the highlights of the year In tougher economic times, how As expected, the full year profits for Viridor and how do they reect the Group vulnerable are South West Water and were below those of last year because strategy?
Viridor to an economic downturn?
the company was impacted by lower recyclate prices in the second half of the David Dupont DD year, reecting world economic conditions.
Group financial performance was once While neither business is immune, both We took action to recover more than again very strong, notwithstanding tough businesses have demonstrated their 50% of the impact of this through cost economic conditions.
South West Waters resilience in recent difficult conditions.
reductions and, while we are cautious profit increase reected further substantial South West Water experienced a small about the recovery of recyclate prices in efficiency gains and while Viridors profits reduction in demand, but this reected the the short-term, Viridors recent contract were a little lower than last year, this was trend in recent years as more customers wins and long-term investment are laying in part due to higher bid costs linked to its switch to meters and our larger users, with the foundation for significant growth in growing pipeline of future projects.
Viridor our assistance, focus on improving their subsequent years.
achieved some notable contract wins water use efficiency.
The bad debt charge during the year which lay the foundation for increased slightly in the first half of the year significant growth in the future.
The Group but has since stabilised.
continued to effectively manage nancing costs which outturned at a lower level than the previous year despite higher average net debt.
Overall the results demonstrate the successful Group strategy of developing its infrastructure utility businesses, with South West Water continuing to outperform the targets set by its regulator and Viridor building its business through a combination of long-term contract wins and construction now under way on four significant energy from waste plants.
The Group policy is to grow the dividend by 4% above RPI up to at least the end of 2014 15.
David Dupont, Group Finance Director Pennon Group 8 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Your dividend continues to be very strong in the sector.
How long can you sustain this performance?
DD The Group policy is to grow the dividend by 4% above RPI up to at least the end of 2014 15.
This policy reects the actual and expected financial performance of both South West Water and Viridor.
As usual the Board expects to review the dividend policy at the start of the next South West Water regulatory review period taking account of Ofwats next price Determination, and the expected growth from Viridors long-term contracts and energy from waste plants which are expected to come on stream around thistime.
There is very substantial investment going into Viridor.
DD At the year-end the Group had cash and facilities of 1,084 million, including 123million restricted cash, with 566million of new renewed facilities secured during the year.
These provide South West Water achieved very substantial resources to support the investment in Viridor over the next few its best ever leakage control years.
We are continuing to talk to a wide results and maintained its 15th range of finance providers and expect to source the remaining funding required on consecutive year without water atimely basis.
South West Water achieved a strong restrictions.
What were the key highlights and how Chris Loughlin, Chief Executive did you achieve them?
South West Water Chris Loughlin South West Water achieved its best ever leakage control results and maintained complaints and the results of customer are healthy to supplement the natural its 15th consecutive year without water satisfaction surveys indicated a 15% inow to our reservoirs.
We had repeated best ever improvement on the year before and a The recent national concerns over drought drinking water quality and saw a record 78% improvement over the last two years.
serve to highlight the importance of number of the regions bathing waters Earlier this year there was a lot of efficient water use.
South West Water is meeting the EUs highest compliance commentary in the press about likely committed to a strategy that optimises standard.
water shortages in England in 2012. its use of supplies and assets and we We were able to exceed our leakage How are you placed in the South continue to raise awareness with our control targets through early detection West?
customers about how to use water wisely.
In addition our CL What has been the impact of the new remote working system allowed our Based on our current position we are adoption of private sewers so far?
leak detection inspectors to work more confident of a 16th consecutive summer Do you expect further investment dynamically in the eld by substantially without water restrictions.
As would be over the next couple of years?
reducing the amount of time needed to expected, South West Water is monitoring process leakage reports.
CL the situation and will make the best use of On 1 October 2011 the Private Sewer South West Waters ongoing programme its resources accordingly.
Transfer legislation resulted in South West of capital investment in water resources Last year we avoided any shortages Waters sewer network increasing by more meant we had adequate supplies to prevent through a combination of utilising new than 50%.
This had a knock-on benefit for a water shortage.
Similarly, our investment resources such as Park and Stannon the majority of our customers who are no in both drinking and waste water treatment reservoirs both former china clay pits longer at risk of high sewer maintenance ensured continued high standards.
The region costs and now are only responsible for Alongside our strong operational did experience a drier winter than average drains located within, and serving, their performance we achieved a significant but we tackled this through the use of properties.
increase in customer service levels.
This involves Service Incentive Mechanism score abstracting water from rivers while levels which includes the number of written Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
