S C R O E N M N U E S C N T O T C O A OVERVIEW Business at a glance The Group is the market leader in the commercialisation of sports content across digital platforms and has developed a range of B2B and B2C products which deliver five revenue streams Overview The Group licenses a large portfolio ofdigital sports rights with contracts Content relating to more than 200 sports leagues, distribution tournaments and events.
Utilising this rights portfolio, the Group creates a range of products, combining sports video, editorial and data content that are distributed direct to consumers and to business clients including sportsbodies, Advertising & Technology rights agencies, broadcasters, sponsorship & production bookmakers and publishers.
display Across the Groups owned portals, video-on-demand player and managed websites, the Group reaches in excess of150 million sports fans per month on PCs, laptops, tablets, smartphones and connected TVs.
Advertising & Subscription sponsorship video All business areas are delivered according to the Groups growth strategy which is set out more fully on pages 12 to 23 Enhance digital Expand Grow audience Pursue Launch on sports rights geographically complementary newdigital portfolio strategic platforms acquisitions 4 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 S I D P E O M R T S S T F R A O N P S S OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW The Group owns the digital sports media rights to over 200 Content distribution leagues, tournaments and events and utilises this rights More in Business Review page 26 portfolio todeliver a range of B2B products covering live video, sports data, sports news and editorial, and sports statistics.
These products are sold to online bookmakers, broadcasters, mobile operators and other business clients around the world.
93m YOY revenue growth of 43% 2011: 65 million The Group generates display advertising and sponsorship Advertising & sponsorship revenues through the sale of display advertisements on the display Groups own branded websites and mobile services including More in Business Review page 28 Goal, the worlds largest football website, Spox, Mackolik, Sahadan and Soccerway.
In 2012, the Group had an average of 43 million monthly unique users across these sites.
The Group also acts as an advertising sales agent for a network of third-party sports 18m websites including the Premier Leagues official website.
YOY revenue growth of 164% 2011: 7 million The Group generates video advertising and sponsorship revenues Advertising & sponsorship through the sale of pre-roll video advertisements on its video-onvideo demand broadcast platform the ePlayer.
The ePlayer is embedded More in Business Review page 30 onthe websites of over 1,000 leading publishers and sports portals in 24 territories.
In 2012, 4.5 billion videos were streamed and 1.8 billion pre-roll adverts sold with content including National Football League, Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association 13m all US, Serie A Italy and La Liga Spain.
YOY revenue growth of 95% 2011: 7 million The Group generates subscription revenues from consumers Subscription paying monthly or annual fees to watch internet delivered live More in Business Review page 32 video and video-on-demand sports content via Livesport.
tv and a range of third-party subscription products on behalf of football clubs, sports bodies and broadcasters.
12m YOY revenue growth of 29% 2011: 10 million The Group generates technology and production revenues Technology & production from arange of clients by: designing, building and managing More in Business Review page 34 websites and mobile products on behalf of sports rights holders: ingesting, encoding and streaming live and on demand content on behalf of sports rights holders and broadcasters and by lming and editing sports matches for rights holders.
15m YOY revenue decline of 2% 2011: 15 million Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
