At a glance The Groups portfolio of categories Africa across a range of developed and developing markets forms the platform for our futuregrowth.
Africa remains the Groups largest region and in Nigeria, Africas most populous country circa 160 million people and our biggest single market, we continue to operate in four categories: Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and Food and Nutrition.
The Personal Care and Home Care businesses have established local brands with ongoing renovation programmes leading to continued maintenance and growth of our market-share.
The Electricals business leads the core refrigerator and freezer market.
Within the Food and Nutrition category we have two joint ventures: Nutricima, with Glanbia Plc operating predominantly in the nutritional beverage sector: and PZ Wilmar, with Wilmar International Limited that will operate in the branded oils and spreads market and will also refine crude palm oil once the plant is commissioned at the end of the calendar year.
In Ghana and Kenya our established businesses and brands are well placed to benefit from anticipated future growth in these countries and the wider region.
Revenue 2011: 339.1m 362.2m Home Care Personal Care Electrical Goods Food and Nutrition page 10 for more info PZ Cussons Plc 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Asia Europe The Asian markets in which we operate provide a naturally Our business in Europe comprises a broad range of categories balanced geographic portfolio, containing both mature and and markets.
Personal Wash in the UK is serviced by our Personal emerging markets with excellent opportunity for growth.
Wash Centre of Excellence facilities in Manchester and focuses on the Imperial Leather, Carex and Original Source brands.
Polands Indonesia is the fourth most populous country in the world with growth is generated by the core Home Care business and also by a population of circa 240 million, currently growing at a rate of replicating the innovation from the UK Personal Wash category.
The economy is the largest in South East The Food and Nutrition category is represented in Greece by Asia, with GDP growth rates of around 6% and consistent growth Minerva and associated brands.
Product innovation is key to in GDP per capita over the last decade.
Our Cussons Baby brand maintaining the leading positions within these markets and this is the market leader and our distribution network also enables year has seen the development and June 2012 launch of the our other Personal Care brands to be delivered to consumers Mum & Me range of products and the launch of Carex Protectthroughout the region.
Australia represents a more mature market Plus in the UK.
where we have leading positions in the Home Care category through our dish and fabric care products.
Our businesses in This has been the first full year of the Beauty division, based Thailand and the Middle East are smaller and less well established in London.
The Beauty division markets and sells Sanctuary, but have good growth potential.
St Tropez, Charles Worthington and newly acquired Fudge and will maximise the international and cross selling potential of these brands.
Revenue 2011: 176.1m Revenue 2011: 305.5m 158.8m 337.9m Baby Care Personal Care Home Care Personal Care Food and Beauty Home Care Nutrition page 12 for more info page 14 for more info PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 05
