At a glance 52 Scotland 52 South East 102 Midlands 47 38 28 Frankie & Bennys 36 Frankie & Bennys 35 Frankie & Bennys 08 Chiquito 14 Chiquito 09 Chiquito 06 08 Garfunkels 20 Pub restaurants 02 TRG Concessions 62 08 TRG Concessions 29 TRG Concessions 01 Coast to Coast 03 Coast to Coast Northern Ireland 06 North West 62 05 Frankie & Bennys London 32 Frankie & Bennys 01 Chiquito inside the M25 46 09 Chiquito 13 Frankie & Bennys 08 TRG Concessions Wales 21 07 Chiquito 13 Pub restaurants 47 13 Frankie & Bennys 16 Garfunkels 24 03 Chiquito North East 38 05 Pub restaurants 05 Pub restaurants 27 Frankie & Bennys 05 TRG Concessions 21 09 Chiquito South West 24 East Anglia 24 01 TRG Concessions 46 15 Frankie & Bennys 13 Frankie & Bennys 01 Coast to Coast 06 Chiquito 24 03 Chiquito 102 01 Garfunkels 02 Pub restaurants 02 TRG Concessions 06 TRG Concessions 217 restaurants 69 restaurants 5 restaurants 12 new openings in 2012 4 new openings in 2012 Frankie & Bennys brings together classic Mexican for fun, fantastic food, amazing Coast to Coast takes its inspiration from the American and Italian style with food and drink atmosphere for a good time, guaranteed.
Lincoln Highway, which spans the United States that always provides great value for money.
The Chiquito menu offers a great range of of America from New York to San Francisco.
The kitchen buzzes with bustling activity as authentic Mexican & Tex-Mex dishes in a lively This is reected in our great range of authentic the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu environment, with fantastic music.
The dcor food and drinks, all served with superb pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and hospitality and service.
We offer the best of favourites while, in typical stateside fashion, Latin style.
Some restaurants have a rustic and classic American food Aberdeen Angus beef service at Frankie & Bennys is second to none!
relaxed feel while others demonstrate the buzz burgers, deep dish style Chicago pizzas, Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico distinctive steaks, amazing seafood dishes, meal or a catch up with friends and observe the City.
Chiquito favourite dishes include nachos, wraps and South-West American specials.
clatter and chatter of the open kitchen and the burritos, enchiladas and our signature sizzling Coast to Coast is more than just a restaurant, familiar classic 50s and 60s soundtrack playing fajitas, as well as the old favourites burgers, with a great bar serving speciality cocktails in the background.
The restaurant walls are lled ribs, salads and hand-cut steaks from the grill.
and a wide range of beers, spirits and traditional with family snapshots and memorabilia showing We specialise in great food, good times and milkshakes.
The music is an eclectic mix of life on the lower east side of the Big Apple, fantastic cocktails to ensure every meal Motown and American Rock, songs you may helping you into a New York state-of-mind.
Chiquito is open for lunch, lazy not have heard in a little while, but are absolutely First opened in 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & afternoons and lively evenings, so whether youre guaranteed to lift your spirits and make you Bennys has become one of the best known out shopping, meeting friends after work or smile.
We currently have five restaurants open casual dining brands in the United Kingdom, and planning a party its the only place to be!
Trading and see significant opportunities to grow trades successfully in leisure and retail locations, in the UK for over 20 years, Chiquito continues to Coast to Coast into a great brand.
standalone sites and at six airports.
The estate attract a broad mix of young adults, couples, comprises of over 215 restaurants spread across teenagers, families and large parties.
Almost 70 the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
leisure, retail and stand-alone restaurants cover the UK with more openings planned.
com 02 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Strong brands focused on the growing casual eating-out market 42 million 422 meals a year restaurants and pub restaurants Pub restaurants 45 pub restaurants 61 sites 25 restaurants 4 new openings in 2012 6 new sites opened in 2012 2 new openings in 2012 Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very TRGs Concessions business has a marketFounded in Londons West End in 1979, British.
Everybody knows what their perfect pub leading reputation for developing partnerships to Garfunkels is proud to be the original British caf looks like.
Each of ours has its own style and deliver catering solutions that meet the needs restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and dinner personality, and youll always nd a warm of our clients and their customers.
Currently all day every day.
Wake up to a traditional British welcome, set against a backdrop of ageless operating over 60 outlets in the UKs busiest fry-up or a warming bowl of porridge, we have interiors.
Mostly set in beautiful rural or semi-rural airports, other transport locations and shopping great coffee too, made just the way you like it.
locations, each pub has a local feel and many centres, we have more than 20 years of For lunchtime our salad bar really hits the spot, are set in intriguing buildings with fascinating experience providing exceptional hospitality to its fast, its fresh and you can make it any way histories.
We dont want all our pubs to look the travelling public.
Our specialist operating you want to.
And of course theres Garfunkels and feel the same instead we preserve the knowledge and exibility ensures successful classics like rotisserie chicken, hand-battered sh character of the building, which after all was performance across our diverse brand portfolio, and chips and tasty topped burgers fresh from what attracted us to the property in the first covering a wide range of popular categories the grill.
Everything has been chosen because place.
We serve a wide selection of cask ales including table service, counter service, we just love the taste.
Principally located across which changes frequently and always try to sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
To meet client Central London, each Garfunkels restaurant include a local brew or two.
We have decent and customer needs we deliver existing TRG offers a place to relax and take a break from the but not over the top wines and the essence of brands, create bespoke concepts and establish hustle and bustle outside, with a loyal following our freshly prepared food is classic British partnerships to franchise brands from third of visitors, local residents and workers who have dishes, complemented by more exotic inuences parties as appropriate.
Building on our track been eating at Garfunkels for years.
from other parts of the world: what we believe record of innovation, partnership and Garfunkels restaurants offer a friendly welcome is modern British cookery.
Seasonal and local performance ahead of sector growth will ensure and broad menu in a warm contemporary specials mean the menu always offers new we remain a market leader in this exciting sector.
setting, just what you need after a hectic choices alongside trusted favourites each time shopping trip in the West End or the perfect you visit.
Theres friendly, engaging service from way to complement a theatre visit.
the moment you arrive, ensuring that all your needs are taken care of.
We believe that, when done well, classic pubs will never go out of fashion, and that opportunities to expand in the sector are available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
We were delighted to receive the Good Pub Guides award for Pub Group of the Year for 2013. www.
co. uk The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 03
