Section 1 | Overview Serco in brief What we offer 3.
Enhancing our people and enabling strategies: our people Serco improves the quality, reliability and efficiency of services that matter strategy is designed to ensure we have the right people, in the right place, to millions of people around the world, by managing people, processes, at the right time.
We also look to have the right systems to support our technology and assets.
We help our customers focus their precious business, and to actively manage our brand and reputation.
resources on what they do best, confident that they can rely on us to Corporate responsibility CR is a fundamental part of the way we work, do what we do best in the moments that matter.
inuencing everything from the markets we choose to the way we manage and develop our people.
For the public sector, we deliver essential frontline services to defence, transport, Mustice and health customers in national, state and local For more on our strategy, see pages 14 to 15.
More on our approach governments.
For the private sector, we handle customer contact and to CR, including our people strategy and performance, can be found business activities for financial, retail, travel and telecoms companies.
on pages 66 to 77 Our vision and strategy Our vision is to be the worlds greatest service company.
This is Our track record of success a company that: Serco has a long track record of success.
This ows directly from delivering the best possible service for our customers, which is customers see as a hallmark of quality, so they want to be associated recognised by others in the many awards we win for service excellence.
with us, tell others about us, and talk proudly about what we do for them Since we listed in 1988, we have consistently grown our revenue and attracts the best talent in the world, where people can be challenged, broadened our portfolio, positioning us in faster growth and more rewarded and achieve their full potential, in a great culture that is profitable markets, while limiting the impact, if any, of our markets respected by our peers become challenging.
At the same time, we have continually looked communities welcome as a partner, because they know that we care to enhance our efficiency and to invest for the future.
and can use our talents and reach to solve the toughest problems they face, and For more on our recent performance, see the Operating Review investors see as a great share to own, because they trust us to on pages 40 to 57 and the Finance Review on pages 58 to 65 deliver growth, excellent earnings visibility and stable cash ows.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has three elements: The future Customers around the world are looking for efficient, high quality 1.
Building a balanced portfolio: we aim to have a contract portfolio and innovative service provision, from frontline delivery to back ofce that is strong and diverse, and that is appropriately balanced between efficiency.
This creates opportunities for Serco in new and existing public and private sector customers, frontline and middle back ofce markets.
Our prospects are supported by the high revenue visibility business process outsourcing BPO, and developed and developing provided by our order book, our pipeline of opportunities and the economies.
This allows us to select the most attractive growth growth potential we see across our markets.
opportunities, including making acquisitions that support our organic growth.
We also actively manage our portfolio, to ensure it continues For more on our markets and opportunities, see the Operating to t our strategy and has appropriate levels of performance and returns.
Driving improved service and margin: as Serco grows, we will increasingly have opportunities to transfer our capabilities around the world, so that more of our capabilities are available to more of our customers and best practice is fully shared.
With this increasing scale comes the chance to drive economies, in particular through the efficiency of shared services and common processes.
Docklands Light Railway Docklands Light Railway, London, UK, London, UK Transperth passenger information and support NorthLink Ferries, Scotland services, Perth, Australia 02 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012
