spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 results and highlights expanding our solutions portfolio Investment in the telecom and IT industries is being made on a large scale to meet the demand of consumers and enterprises for anytime, anywhere access to data, applications and services with the highest quality of experience.
We executed on our strategy in 2012 to increase the breadth of our test solutions portfolio, organically and through acquisition, to address growing and emerging opportunities, laying the groundwork for profitable growth in 2013 and beyond.
2 Before tax effect of items in note 1 and prior year tax.
3 Operating cash flow after tax, net interest and net capital expenditure.
4 overview business review governance financial statements Group revenue flat at $472.4 million 2011 $470.5 million impacted by Service Financial highlights Assurance down 29%.
Book to bill ratio was 97 2011 103 reflecting the weaker macroeconomic environment, particularly in the second halfyear.
Group adjusted operating margin was maintained at 25% after increased investment in product development.
Performance Analysis revenue up 4% with strong growth in 4G LTE wireless, data center and high speed Ethernet, largely offset by a decline of 26% in positioning test.
Final dividend proposed of 1.83 cents per Ordinary Share, giving a full year dividend of 3.22 cents per Ordinary Share.
Strong free cash flow of $84.0 million 2011 $69.3 million : cash closed at $248.6 million.
Significant strategic progress was made in 2012, through the introduction of Operational and new test solutions and the acquisition of Mu Dynamics, Inc. Mu and Metrico strategic highlights Wireless, Inc. Metrico, taking Spirent into adjacent growth markets.
Demand was driven by: Expansion in data center scale for cloud computing and mobile broadband: Migration of Ethernet technologies to higher speeds: Application security needs resulting from mobility and growth in applications: 4G LTE technology and services such as video and Voice over LTE VoLTE : Need for integrated infrastructure test automation to address time to market pressures.
Acquired Mu for cash of $39.8 million in April 2012.
Mu offers market leading expertise in cyber security.
Mus software has been integrated within Spirent TM TestCenter, resulting in the most comprehensive solution available to test applicationaware networks and security.
Acquired Metrico for cash of $52.2 million in September 2012.
Combining Metricos live network with Spirents labbased mobile device test expertise has resulted in an unparalleled endtoend test portfolio.
Expanded our wireless test capabilities for the deployment of 4G LTE networks, devices and services into the mobile device R&D market.
Further test capabilities developed to serve growth in location based services and global navigation satellite systems beyond GPS.
New solution developed that is practical, easy to use and cost effective for enterprises to rapidly deploy network services.
Disposal of the Systems division for a cash consideration of $63.2 million completed.
