02 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2 At a Glance SuperGroup Plc is the owner of the Superdry brand and operates in the branded fashion clothing sector.
Superdry targets the young fashion market with affordable, premium quality clothing and accessories for both men and women in the 15 to 25 age bracket, although the brand has become increasingly appealing to a much broader group.
Superdry focuses on high quality fashionable products fusing vintage Americana and Japanese inspired graphics with a British style.
Superdry clothes are characterised by: Super soft hand feel cotton with authentic vintage washes: Premium fabric with vintage detailing: World leading hand-drawn graphics: and Tailored fits with diverse styling.
The Group operates from 103 owned stores in the UK and Europe and through 101 franchised and licensed stores around the world.
Superdrys presence around the world: Europe: Asia Middle East: Rest of World: UK Austria Indonesia Columbia Republic of Ireland Finland Hong Kong Venezuala Belgium Denmark Taiwan Panama Netherlands Spain South Korea South Africa Luxembourg Greece Kuwait USA Germany Turkey United Arab Emirates Australia Italy Switzerland Malaysia Canada France The Groups business model is to establish a presence in a wide range of geographical territories through a combination of owned stores, franchises, concessions, licences and the internet.
This model is flexed, based upon the profiles and risks of each territory and, over time, depending on the success of the Superdry brand, a blend of these channels to market could be adopted.
In the UK, the Groups strategy is to increase its retail presence through owned stores and the internet to achieve greater control over the merchandising and pricing model of the Superdry brand.
In Europe the acquisition of SuperGroup Europe BVBA has provided a platform through an existing portfolio of stores and an experienced local management team that will develop both retail and wholesale revenues.
The Groups strategy is to: Expand the UK and European standalone Retail estate: Roll-out an e-commerce platform that increases its penetration of Group revenue: Drive international franchised store expansion across the world: and Develop an infrastructure that delivers operational efficiency and a platform for growth.
Through this strategy, the Group aims to grow revenues and profits.
