10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview TUI Travel at a glance What we do Why we do it Market overview Make travel Leisure Travel market: experiences Directly worth USD$2 trillion to global GDP in 2012 special Directly supports 98 million jobs worldwide Average growth rate of 4% since 1995 and set to continue 2012 will be the first year where international arrivals break the one billion mark Two sides to the market, customers demanding individualisation and those who demand commoditisation We have strategies that address both, explained in the How we do it section We are well positioned to benefit from the markets size and growth.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Strategic overview How we do it What are the risks?
How we measure it Strategic framework, Principal risks Our KPIs Business models and Strategy Return on invested capital Strategic risks Our Strategy 2012 12.2% vs 2011 11.3% Consumer preferences Through our global brand and desires 1 Cash conversion % portfolio and travel expertise Business improvement we are focused on delivering 2012 75% vs 2011 121% opportunities leisure travel experiences 1 Free cash flow adjusted for net pre-delivery payments of 53m 2011: 34m designed for our customers Emerging markets, ever changing needs Unique holidays mix as acquisitions and investments a proportion of total Two strong business models Mainstream Sector holidays Operational risks addressing the different 2012 65% vs 2011 62% customer demands within Global financial factors the market.
The demand for Direct distribution mix, Economic environment individualisation is addressed as a proportion of total Talent management through our Tour Operating Mainstream Sector holidays model and the demand for Political volatility, natural 2012 65% vs 2011 63% commoditisation is addressed catastrophes and outbreaks through our Online Online distribution mix, as a proportion of total Compliance risk Accommodation model Mainstream Sector holidays Regulatory environment Our Strategic Drivers 2012 33% vs 2011 30% Content, Brands & Distribution, Technology, Growth & Scale Turnaround and cost and People savings delivered Our Values 2012 42m Customer Driven, Playing to Total Transaction Value in Win, Responsible Leadership the Online Accommodation and Value Driven business 1.8bn, an increase of 10% over the prior year Carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines average carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK : 2 2012 73.0g CO RPK vs 2 2011 75.9g CO RPK 2 FOR MORE SEE PAGE 14 FOR MORE SEE PAGE 18 FOR MORE SEE PAGE 20 www.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 12 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview Why we do it Market overview The political climate The Market Both segments are being driven by high The economic environment As a global organisation, we feel the impact growth in online bookings and, while the of government regulation in all of the The global economic recovery has slowed uncertain economic environment has had markets in which we operate.
Some of our down over the past six months.
In addition an effect on consumer travel spending activities, such as those undertaken by our to the Eurozone crisis and the unrest in habits, demand for leisure travel remains airline, are heavily regulated.
Many of our the Middle East and North Africa, growth strong.
lawmakers, particularly in Europe, are in a number of major emerging market becoming increasingly focused upon economies has been lower than previously Our business models see How we do it: measures to protect customers.
The IMF projects real GDP growth Business models section aims to cater worldwide at 3.5% for 2012.
Growth is to these trends individualisation and The policy of our political and regulatory expected to be driven by emerging and commoditisation to best serve the affairs team is to seek to engage with developing economies which are forecast changing needs of our customers.
We legislators at an early stage in relation to to expand by 5.6% in 2012.
In comparison, consider individualisation to be the Tour all of those areas of regulation that might advanced economies are expected to grow Operator market and commoditisation have a material impact upon the way we by only 1.4%.
as the Online Accommodation market.
Our focus is always to work with governments to bring forward Our two largest source markets, the UK The sustainability challenge legislation that is fit for purpose, is no more and Germany, are expected to grow by burdensome on industry than it needs to 0.2% and 1% respectively in 2012.
Within Travel and tourism accounts for 9% of be and does not discriminate between the Eurozone, the unemployment rate global GDP.
The industry will continue different business models.
currently stands at 11.4%, up 120 to be one of the worlds fastest growing percentage points from last year.
Compared sectors, with emerging economies in Our engagement with the European to other Eurozone countries, both Germany particular seen as engines of such growth institutions has been particularly important and the UK have withstood the economic and the UNWTO expecting international over the last 12 months as we seek to crisis in the Eurozone with unemployment tourist arrivals to exceed 1 billion in 2012. achieve a proper balance between the at just 5.5% in Germany and 8.1% in the Travel and tourism today is responsible for aviation industry and the customer in the UK.
9% of global employment but also for 5% area of passenger rights.
This will also of global carbon dioxide emissions.
From remain an area of focus in the coming The economic outlook for 2013 seems a sustainable development perspective this 12 months.
more positive with real GDP growth poses a challenge the growth of an worldwide projected at 3.9% driven by the The work of the European institutions in industry highly dependent on fossil fuels expansion of both advanced and emerging relation to the revision of the European and biodiversity in a world of finite natural markets.
While advanced economies are Directive on Package Travel also continues.
forecast to grow at 1.9%, emerging and We are confident that the European developing economies are projected to Our businesses have been facing up to this institutions are convinced of the need for expand by 5.9%.
For TUI Travel, reform and will bring forward a proposal responding to these issues means bringing in the first quarter of 2013.
The leisure travel market sustainability centre stage, to build on the Over the last 12 months, Eurozone efficiency and resilience of our business Demand for international tourism remained countries have had to come to grips with and the services it provides.
Our strong in 2011 with international arrivals austerity measures placed on them by Sustainable Holidays Plan is a major step growing by 4.6% compared to 2010.
The national governments, some more severe forward for TUI Travel in our journey percentage increase was slightly below than others.
We continue to monitor the towards providing special travel experiences 2010 7%, driven primarily by economic developments across the region and do not whilst minimising environmental impact, factors coupled with unrest in the Middle expect this to have a major impact on our respecting the culture and people in East and North Africa, which were the only business.
The good relationships we have destinations and bringing real economic regions to record a decline in arrivals, -8% with our suppliers and the flexibility in our benefit to local communities.
See our and -9% respectively UNWTO.
business model means we are well Sustainable Development section for more Europe, home to the majority of our core positioned to deal with any eventuality.
markets and accounting for over half of all Aviation taxation also remains on the international arrivals worldwide, together agenda as governments across the world with Asia, were the fastest growing regions look for ways to increase revenue.
is to remind them of the importance of the The travel and tourism market continues travel and tourism industry as a driver for to experience a clear polarisation of growth.
On one hand, we have customers In the UK, the debate on airport capacity who demand individualisation, i. e. unique Reference continues.
We will take a full part in that holidays with bespoke services.
On the World Travel and Tourism Councils Economic Impact debate as it develops in order to ensure Report 2011. other hand, we have customers who that the specific requirements of leisure United Nations World Tourism Organisation UNWTO, are increasingly moving towards airlines and passengers are fully United Nations Environment Programme UNEP and commoditisation, i. e. flights in combination World Meteorological Organisation WMO October 2007 understood.
with hotels with minimal levels of Climate Change and Tourism: Responding to Global Challenges.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 Strategic overview Tour Operator Market Online Accommodation Market individualisation commoditisation Our Footprint Our 10 core markets, including the UK, Sweden, The total Online Accommodation market accounts Market Size Germany, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, for 82bn of global travel spend.
& Coverage Poland, Switzerland and Canada, account for 405bn The Accommodation Wholesaler market accounts of global travel spend Euromonitor.
Our four largest for 15bn of this spend with the Accommodation source markets of the UK & Ireland, Germany, Online Travel Agent OTA market accounting for France and Sweden make up 70% of this spend.
Due to the niche nature of Specialist & Activity Our Groups addressable market in the businesses, it is hard to quantify total worldwide Accommodation OTA segment including UK and spend on these holidays but their geographical Asia-Pacific focus markets makes up 7.5bn of the reach and popularity continues to rise.
Our core markets are projected to grow at a 3% Online Accommodation is the fastest growing Market Growth CAGR over the next five years.
The mainstream segment of the travel market and is expected to holiday market remains resilient and has actually grow at a CAGR of 7.5% over the next five years.
seen resurgence in a tough economic environment.
We are the number one tour operator in Europe Our Accommodation Wholesaler business Our Positioning with strong positions in each of our core markets.
Hotelbeds and Bedsonline is the market leader in the B2B space.
In addition, we have market-leading positions in a number of specialist segments with a portfolio of With our Accommodation OTA business we are unique holidays, unrivalled product knowledge positioned strongly in the UK LateRooms.
com and superb customer experience.
com and have recently established ourselves in the Latin American market through the acquisition of MalaPronta.
com, Brazils fourth largest online accommodation OTA.
Online Accommodation has seen tremendous Customers are increasingly moving towards online Key Trends & growth over the last few years fuelled by the channels to fulfil their travel needs and we expect Future Outlook growth in online bookings and supplemented by this trend to continue into 2013 and beyond.
We, strong demand from the emerging markets.
Online therefore, remain focused on improving our online Accommodation, therefore, remains a key area of presence, increasing our participation in social media focus for TUI Travel where we look to consolidate and moving towards an online-driven company our leadership position within the Accommodation culture.
Wholesaler market and build on our strong position Demand for unique holiday experiences continues in the Accommodation OTA segment.
to see strong growth and with a diverse range of experiences on offer, TUI Travel remains well placed.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview How we do it Strategic framework & Business models Strategic framework Our Strategic Framework underpins everything we do and comprises of our Vision, Strategy, Strategic Drivers and the Values that are innate within our business culture.
Making travel experiences special Vision Through our global brand portfolio & travel expertise we are focused on delivering leisure travel experiences Strategy designed for our customers ever changing needs Brands & Growth Content Technology People Strategic Distribution & Scale Drivers Customer Playing Responsible Value Driven to Win Leadership Driven Values Customer Driven We respect our customers and never forget that they choose to spend their leisure time with us.
We share a duty to maintain their loyalty and trust.
We anticipate customer desires and everything we do is with them in mind.
We believe there is no such thing as a mass market but a huge market of individuals.
Playing to Win We are passionate about being the best and about winning with integrity.
We seek the ideas and trends that change leisure-time markets for the better and move quickly to action them.
We are not afraid of making brave decisions.
We want to do something new every day and we love what we do.
Value Driven We share an infectious entrepreneurial streak and a clear focus on the need for profitability.
We look for opportunities that have a commercial advantage for us and add value to our customers experiences.
We predict, translate and bring to market new leisure-time products based on their genuine appeal to customers.
Responsible Leadership We are committed to sustainable development and to making a positive impact on society.
We know leadership has to be earned and we never take it for granted.
We communicate openly and easily and help each other develop and grow.
We celebrate local differences and actively seek to contribute to a better world.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Strategic overview Business models We have refined our business model to focus on the two key areas of long-term growth within the market.
The Tour Operator model addresses the individualisation needs of the customer while the Online Accommodation model addresses the commoditisation needs.
The strategic drivers of both areas are ingrained in our Strategic Framework with a clear focus on Content, Brands & Distribution, Technology, Growth & Scale and People.
Tour Operator Online Accommodation Range and diversity of hotel Unique, inclusive holidays stock Content Tailor-made holidays Global destination and source market coverage Market-leading brands Well known Accommodation Trusted brands Wholesaler and Accommodation Brands & safety & security OTA brands Distribution High levels of controlled Online distribution focus on online Flexible technological Technology Market-leading technology platforms to support growth Growth Leveraging scale Leveraging scale & Scale Knowledge & expertise Knowledge & expertise People Driving innovation Driving innovation Online Driven Cost Efficiency www.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview How we do it Strategy Content Brands & Distribution Unique holidays Why is it Brands & Distribution Why is it important?
Online-driven Increased online distribution improves our proportion Puts the customers needs first and of direct distribution, reduces reliance on third party distributors and foremost.
Provides value added services and Online-driven The higher the proportion of direct distribution, the Tour features which command a margin better we understand our customers and their needs.
It provides us with premium over commodity products.
tangible and useful information about customer preference.
In that sense, Operator online-driven also contributes to the success of our unique holidays.
Leads to higher customer loyalty The more we understand our customer, the better and more tailored and an increase in repeat bookings.
the products we can offer and directly market to them.
Books early when compared to Brands Having multiple touch points with our customers enables us to commodity products enabling us to build stronger brand and product loyalty whilst ensuring that customers manage our capacity and yield more come back to TUI Travel for another unique holiday experience.
brands also increase organic traffic to our websites which has a higher What are we doing about it?
Unique holidays form the backbone What are we doing about it?
of our Tour Operator strategy.
TUI Travel is focusing on being an online-driven business providing Our specialist businesses, through their customers with an easy and inspiring online experience.
We have widened unique holiday portfolio, provide the traditional definition of online as a distribution channel to being tailor-made holidays to cater to a wide online-driven which encompasses the entire customer journey: range of customer needs.
dreaming, planning, booking, pre-departure, experiencing and sharing.
In the Mainstream Sector, the levels of Over the past year we have increased our online sales by three unique holidays have continued to grow.
percentage points across the Mainstream Sector from 30% in 2011 to In 2012, they represented 65% of total 33% in 2012 and have clear strategic plans and targets in place to drive holidays booked, compared to 62% in online sales further in all source markets.
We have clear targets and plans to Our Specialist businesses leverage a strong brand portfolio offering grow the proportion of unique holidays everything from adventure holidays to sailing holidays and private jet across all markets in 2013 and beyond.
We are investing in our online platforms to enhance booking and search functionality and provide our customers with inspirational content to showcase our products.
Content Diversity Brands & Distribution Why is it important?
Brand awareness To be the first place that customers turn to for their accommodation needs.
Reduces online advertising spend and attracts Customers have an ever-increasing choice customers directly to our websites.
of destinations to fly to.
It is only logical that we keep pace and provide our Distribution Being an online-only business it is critical that we provide Online customers with an ever-increasing range our customers with an effective and easy-to-use search and booking of hotels to complement their flights.
Accommodation Geographical diversity and reach of our What are we doing about it?
content will be the key growth driver within the Online Accommodation space.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business is the market leader operating in over 100 countries with a global distribution presence.
The current What are we doing about it?
five year plan focuses on leveraging our existing distribution network, Increasing the range and diversity of our maintaining growth across Europe and expanding further into the hotel stock is core to our strategy within Americas and Asia.
We In Accommodation OTA our focus is to build on our strong brand want to be able to offer our customers a positioning of LateRooms.
com in the UK and expand in the emerging one-stop-shop for their accommodation markets through AsiaRooms.
com across Asia and in Brazil with the needs.
From FY11 to FY12, our Accommodation Following the launch of five language sites, AsiaRooms.
com launched a Wholesaler business has seen a 20% pan-regional brand development campaign to drive sales and increase increase in hotel inventory.
In the same brand awareness.
The campaign, entitled The Right Room for You, time period, our Accommodation OTA focused on the uniqueness of each traveller and their travel preferences business has seen a 32% rise in hotels delivering good results.
Traffic growth from Singapore and Malaysia on offer.
grew over 49% and 132% respectively in 2012.
TUI Travel has a clear strategy of continuing to increase its hotel offering even further in the coming years with a strong focus on emerging markets.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Strategic overview Through our global brand portfolio and travel expertise we are focused on delivering leisure travel experiences designed for our customers ever changing needs.
We have two strong business models that share the same strategic drivers.
Our strategy differs depending upon whether we are talking about the Tour Operator or Online Accommodation model.
We have, therefore, set out below why our strategic drivers are important for each and what we are doing about them to ensure the long-term growth of our business.
Technology Growth & Scale People Technology Why is it important?
Growth & Scale Why is it important?
People Why are they important?
Online-driven Critical support structure Growth Consolidating our market-leading People are a key differentiator at TUI Travel.
It for seamless front-end interaction with the positions and seizing new growth opportunities is their unrivalled knowledge and expertise that customer.
will be the key driver of success going forward.
is the driving force of our successful business.
Robust finance and reservation systems to Scale Leveraging our scale and driving further Our people are the face of our company.
It is support business operations but also to provide cost efficiencies will provide added value to their ability to delight our customers which reliable and actionable management information.
ensures high customer satisfaction scores and repeat bookings.
Flexible technological platforms which can What are we doing about it?
adapt to changing customer demands.
What are we doing about it?
As Europes largest tour operator we are What are we doing about it?
leveraging our scale across all source markets to Investing in training and development of our consolidate our market-leading position and grow people to ensure that they have the right skills Within Mainstream, we are in the process of the number of customers travelling with us.
and expertise to provide us with a competitive upgrading our web front-end reservation and advantage.
finance systems across all source markets.
Growth in new markets is an important area of These technology upgrades will provide our focus for TUI Travel.
Our Russian tour operator Making sure that we work closely with our people websites with new search functionalities, business has given us a position in this market to drive high levels of pride and engagement improved personalisation and richer content and a platform for further growth.
as well as enhanced mobile capability as our Our customers demand value for money Our International Graduate Leadership customers increasingly research and book their for their travel spend and we are constantly Programme continues to attract high quality holidays on mobile devices.
reviewing areas where we can optimise our talent from across the world and is considered Our specialist businesses have made good operations and be as cost efficient as possible among the best in the industry.
progress in consolidating their finance and without compromising on customer experience.
Bi-annual talent reviews ensure that we monitor reservation systems to leverage our scale across the talent and capabilities within our organisation multiple brands and continue on their journey and have clear succession plans in place for of standardisation while balancing the varied business critical roles.
requirements of the different holiday Established Centres of Excellence which enable experiences they offer.
best practice sharing across the Group and make sure that good ideas are not limited to one source market but flow through the entire organisation.
Technology Why is it important?
Scale is a critical success factor for any online People are the key driver of any online business Online-driven Provide market-leading accommodation business.
where agility, speed and innovation are essential technological platforms to support seamless elements of success.
front-end interaction with the customer.
In a price-driven, lower-margin business it is Robust finance and reservation systems imperative for us to achieve high volumes which Talent retention and acquisition are increasingly support business operations but also provide can be leveraged to gain competitive advantage.
gaining priority in a market characterised by rapid reliable and actionable management information.
changes and high competition for top talent.
TUI Travel is a firm market leader in the adapt to changing customer demands.
We have a Building a strong brand proposition to attract What are we doing about it?
clear strategy of consolidating our market-leading and retain the best online talent.
position even further by continuing to grow our Both Accommodation Wholesaler and Identifying knowledge gaps within the existing destinations whilst accelerating our Accommodation OTA businesses are supported organisation and providing colleagues with expansion into new markets with particular by effective and efficient IT platforms.
the necessary tools and skills to succeed in focus on Asia, Latin America and Africa.
Accommodation Wholesaler operational systems Within the Accommodation OTA space we are Developing an online-driven culture where are being upgraded and updated in order to be concentrating our growth strategy in attractive employees are encouraged to keep abreast of able to continue improving its service delivery emerging markets which exhibit the highest latest trends whilst providing an environment to global customers.
growth potential in this segment.
AsiaRooms is which fosters new ideas and innovation.
In our Accommodation OTA business we have now an established and growing brand in the been investing in a new platform to support The international nature of our business Asia-Pacific region.
The acquisition of our growth strategy.
necessitates that we look beyond European MalaPronta.
com, Brazils fourth largest boundaries when it comes to sourcing talent.
accommodation-only OTA, gives TUI Travel TUI Travel continues to tap into the vast talent a foothold into the fast-growing and lucrative pool of markets like Brazil and South East Asia Latin American market.
to fuel its global growth ambitions.
LateRooms is now ranked as the number two accommodation-only OTA in the UK market.
We aim to continue delivering superior growth by developing new distribution channels and new customer segments in this market.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview How we measure it Key performance indicators KPIs Strategy Target Performance Key performance indicators Our main strategic objective is to continue to improve the Groups We target continuous To measure our financial progress we have two financial KPIs: i ROIC Financial profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior improvement in Group ROIC the return on invested capital ROIC : and ii the conversion of 1 returns on investment.
This improvement will allow us to invest and cash conversion of at least underlying profit before tax to adjusted free cash flow.
2012 12.2% 2011 11.3% 2010 9.7% further in the future of our business which will benefit our 70% of profit before tax.
ROIC has improved again this year by 0.9 percentage points to 2 customers, colleagues and shareholders.
This increase was driven by an improvement in earnings 1 during the year and a deterioration in the carrying value of net 2012 75% 2011 121% 2010 116% assets resulting from the increasing strength of Sterling.
1 2010 re-presented for Jet4You and Magic Life predecessor accounting: 2010 We generated a cash conversion rate of 75% in 2012.
As expected, this profits based on pro forma unaudited underlying operating profit excluding the number has fallen from the prior year due to investments in capital impact of volcanic ash expenditure to improve the underlying businesses.
We continue to 2 Free cash flow adjusted for net pre-delivery payments of 53m 2011: 34m target a cash conversion rate of at least 70% going forward.
Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream We are targeting a unique In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by three Unique holidays mix as a proportion of total Mainstream Product businesses and are exclusive to us.
By increasing our unique holiday holiday mix of 76% as a percentage points across the Mainstream Sector as a whole.
Sector holidays portfolio we can achieve earlier bookings, higher margins and proportion of total Mainstream Within this, the Nordic region improved by five percentage superior customer satisfaction and retention rates.
Due to our Sector holidays over the next points and the UK by four percentage points.
2012 65% 2011 62% 2010 55% existing brand loyalty and experience in designing and operating five years.
new concepts it is very difficult for our competitors to replicate these holidays.
By increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower We are targeting a direct To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: i direct Direct distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream Distribution distribution costs and can build on our customer relationships.
As distribution mix of 80% and an distribution mix: and ii online distribution mix.
an online-driven business, we have a focus on the online booking online distribution mix of 49% Direct distribution mix improved by two percentage points over experience.
Increasing our direct distribution leads to better value in our Mainstream Sector over 2012 65% 2011 63% 2010 62% the year, with a strong performance by the UK which saw a five for customers.
Customer trends support a shift towards the online the next five years.
percentage point increase over the prior year.
The improvement channel with social media and richer content all helping drive higher in direct distribution was driven by the online channel which also Online distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream conversion rates.
increased by three percentage points in 2012.
Sector holidays 2012 33% 2011 30% 2010 27% Our objective is to be as cost efficient as possible without compromising We are targeting a further We delivered 42m of operational efficiency savings through the Turnaround and cost savings delivered Operational customer experience.
Within Mainstream, we target overheads of less 65m of business improvement business improvement programme in the last 12 months.
This than 5% in each source market.
We also continue to make cost savings opportunities over the next exceeded original guidance given at the start of the financial year.
efficiency 2012 42m in our other Sectors including centralisation of back-office functions tw o to three years to be We made progress in a number of areas including the restructuring where appropriate.
delivered in broadly even within the French and German markets as well as Jet4You.
Our Online Accommodation business enjoys high-margin and growth We are targeting an Accommodation Wholesaler continued to consolidate its global Total Transaction Value in the Online Accommodation business Online characteristics.
We currently have a leading global position in underlying operating leadership position over the year with TTV growth of 13% to 1.4bn.
Accommodation Accommodation Wholesaler and strong presence within the UK and profit growth of between In Accommodation OTA, we continued to invest in high-growth 2012 1.8bn an increase of 10% over the prior year Asian markets in Accommodation OTA.
A combination of organic and 15% to 20% per annum markets delivering TTV growth of 4% to 447m.
This included growth acquisitive growth will be a key driver of profit growth in this business.
AsiaRooms which delivered TTV growth of 25%.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability Four years ago TUI Travel airlines set a relative target to reduce Carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines average We are targeting our airlines to Responsible and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 14, against a baseline of 2007 08. carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK reduce per passenger carbon 2 leadership our product into the future and also support product differentiation, In 2011 12 TUI Travel airlines relative carbon emissions were 73g per emissions by 6% by 2013 14 2012 73.0g CO RPK 2011 75.9g CO RPK 2 2 brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK, i. e. 6.3% less than 2007 08 against a baseline of 2007 08.
2 therefore the six-year target has been achieved within four years.
See Sustainable development 2010 76.1g CO RPK 2009 78.1g CO RPK 2 2 section.
Achieved through operational efficiencies, fuel conservation activities and capacity amendments.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19 Strategic overview Strategy Target Performance Key performance indicators Our main strategic objective is to continue to improve the Groups We target continuous To measure our financial progress we have two financial KPIs: i ROIC profitability and free cash flow and therefore deliver superior improvement in Group ROIC the return on invested capital ROIC : and ii the conversion of 1 returns on investment.
Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream We are targeting a unique In the year, we increased the unique holidays mix by three Unique holidays mix as a proportion of total Mainstream businesses and are exclusive to us.
By increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower We are targeting a direct To measure our progress, we have two distribution KPIs: i direct Direct distribution mix, as a proportion of total Mainstream distribution costs and can build on our customer relationships.
Sector holidays 2012 33% 2011 30% 2010 27% Our objective is to be as cost efficient as possible without compromising We are targeting a further We delivered 42m of operational efficiency savings through the Turnaround and cost savings delivered customer experience.
2012 42m in our other Sectors including centralisation of back-office functions tw o to three years to be We made progress in a number of areas including the restructuring where appropriate.
Our Online Accommodation business enjoys high-margin and growth We are targeting an Accommodation Wholesaler continued to consolidate its global Total Transaction Value in the Online Accommodation business characteristics.
Accommodation Wholesaler and strong presence within the UK and profit growth of between In Accommodation OTA, we continued to invest in high-growth 2012 1.8bn an increase of 10% over the prior year Asian markets in Accommodation OTA.
This included acquisitive growth will be a key driver of profit growth in this business.
We are experiencing greater stakeholder interest in sustainability Four years ago TUI Travel airlines set a relative target to reduce Carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines average We are targeting our airlines to and believe that creating more sustainable holidays will help protect carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 14, against a baseline of 2007 08. carbon emissions per revenue passenger kilometre CO RPK reduce per passenger carbon 2 our product into the future and also support product differentiation, In 2011 12 TUI Travel airlines relative carbon emissions were 73g per emissions by 6% by 2013 14 2012 73.0g CO RPK 2011 75.9g CO RPK 2 2 brand loyalty, customer satisfaction and competitive advantage.
