Group at a glance A single focus: Gold in Africa Where we operate Currently, all of ABGs mining operations are in Tanzania.
We believe that Tanzania possesses significant mining potential.
Critically, it has an established legal and regulatory framework for mining companies and a history of political stability and democratically elected governments.
Corporate headquarters, Country office, Operations office, London, UK Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Johannesburg, South Africa Our office in London serves as ABGs Our office in Dar es Salaam serves as the Our Johannesburg office is the regional corporate headquarters and is the base primary interface with the government, basefor capital projects, planning, technical forABGs Executive Directors and other inaddition to being the logistical base in services and administrative, finance, human members of the Senior Leadership Team, Tanzania, which provides in-country support resources and procurement functions for including the General Counsel and the to our operations.
Other functions located our operations.
Head of Corporate Development and inthis office include community relations, Investor Relations.
Bulyanhulu Buzwagi North Mara Bulyanhulu is a high grade underground mine Buzwagi is a low grade bulk deposit with a single North Mara is a high grade open pit mine primarily accessed by a vertical shaft.
The mill is designed with a consisting of three open pit deposits: Nyabirama, is a trackless operation using long-hole as its throughput capacity of 12,000 tonnes per day Gokona and Nyabigena.
The process plant has principal mining method, with alimak, approximately 4.4 million tonnes per year and the capacity to process an average of 8,000 conventional cut and fill and drift and fill the produces both dor and copper goldconcentrate.
tonnes per day or approximately 2.8 million other primary mining methods.
The process tonnes per year and produces dor.
Buzwagis life of mine is currently estimated plant currently has the capacity to process tobe over 10 years, based on its proven and North Maras life of mine is estimated to be over anaverage of approximately 3,300 tonnes of probable gold reserves of 2,697,000 ounces.
10 years based on its proven and probable gold oreper day approximately 1.1 million tonnes reserves of 3,012,000 ounces.
peryear and produces both dor and copper goldconcentrate.
Bulyanhulus life of mine is currently estimated tobe over 25 years, based on its proven and probable gold reserves of 10,564,000 ounces.
PG PG PG More information on page 24 More information on page 25 More information on page 26 2 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Kampala West Kenya JV Kisumu UGANDA KENYA Lake Victoria Nairobi North Mara Mwanza Nyanzaga TANZANIA Bulyanhulu Tulawaka Golden Ridge Arusha Buzwagi Tulawaka 70% Tanzania exploration Kenya exploration Tulawaka consists of a completed open pit with ABGs Tanzanian exploration programme Through various joint venture arrangements, an underground access ramp located at the focuses primarily on advancing our organic ABG holds an interest in a number of bottom of the pit.
All capital and operating costs growth projects in and around our existing exploration licences over a land package in 2 associated with the Tulawaka mine and net cash operations, as well as advancing important excess of 2,800km of the highly prospective generated by the mine are divided on a 70:30 regional exploration programmes at North Mara Ndori Greenstone Belt in West Kenya.
The basis between ABG and MDN Inc.
The process and Nyanzaga, our primary greenfield project in licences contain multiple large-scale gold plant started to operate using batch processing Tanzania.
Core brownfield exploration projects anomalies in areas of historic colonial mines during 2012 and produces dor.
include: the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion, andprospects.
Sporadic historic and current Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion, Gokona exploration activities have identified a large Tulawaka has proven and probable gold reserves Expansion and Nyabirama Expansion.
Where number of targets that justify extensive of 16,000 ounces and is expected to close in 2013. practicable, we also explore opportunities to follow-up.
ABG intends to implement a develop satellite gold deposits, such as Golden systematic and focused gold exploration Ridge, to increase production at our programme in 2013 and beyond to explore existingoperations.
PG PG PG More information on page 27 More information on page 28 More information on page 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
