02 Introduction Group at a Glance Atkins is one of the worlds leading engineering and design consultancies.
We plan, design and enable our clients capital programmes.
We have the breadth and depth of expertise to respond to the most technically challenging and time critical infrastructure projects and to facilitate the urgent transition to a low carbon economy.
Our business segments United Kingdom North America The Group is managed according to a regional model and this management We deliver engineering and technically In North America we provide structure is reected in our segmentation.
integrated design, together with project infrastructure planning, engineering, and cost management services, to a construction management, wide range of clients in the public, environmental consulting, urban regulated and private sectors.
Our areas planning, architecture and programme of operation include water, environment, management services to state and education, aerospace, defence and local government clients, federal infrastructure design and we also have agencies and private businesses.
Pages 20-23 Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue 8 59.9m 4 21.
9m Employees Employees 8,924 3, 255 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 03 Middle East Asia Pacic and Europe Energy In the Middle East we provide a full In our Asia Pacic business we provide Our Energy business operates across range of design, engineering and project engineering, planning, urban design, multiple geographies with our main management services for buildings, architectural and rail design services.
centres in the UK, North America, transportation and other infrastructure In mainland China our focus is on urban Australia and the Middle East.
programmes from our eight centres planning, alongside architectural and We provide engineering and project across the region.
In Hong management services and we are Kong we deliver services in urban rail actively increasing our presence and development and highways bridges capabilities in the energy market, design.
Our European business comprises including addressing allied issues operations in Denmark, Ireland, Norway, such as climate change, sustainability Poland, Portugal and Sweden.
Pages 32-35 Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 171.
Full time equivalent staff at 31 March 2012 including agency staff.
There are an additional 67 staff undertaking Group functions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction
