6 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Highlights from the year International growth: Private Equity portfolio drivingrealisation success performance: growth in The three largest realisations in the year, MWM, Hyva and challenging times l, grew the proportion of their international sales during The 10 highest performing Private Equity portfolio companies the time that 3i was invested.
They delivered an aggregate increased their sales and earnings by an average of 25% of 4.2x their original investment, an average IRR of 32% and 27% respectively in the year to December 2011.
Based in andcreated 412million of value for 3iand 173million Europe, Asia and North America, these businesses operate forinvestors in the relevant private equityfunds.
across a broad range of sectors.
What they all have in common is international growth, operational effectiveness and a strong focus on delivering excellent products and services.
The combined value increase in these companies in the year was 166million.
Action and Hilite: demonstrating 3is market access Two new investments typify the strength of 3is market access.
3is deep sector and local relationships, combined with its track record of growing businesses internationally, provided the access to these investments with high growthpotential.
Action, in which Eurofund V invested 229million, is a 700million revenue Dutch-based non-food discount retailer with 275 stores, aiming to expand its presence from the Benelux and Germany to other countries.
Hilite, a business in which Eurofund V invested 190million, is a 370million revenue automotive components businessat the cutting edge of fuel efficiency and emissionscontrols technology.
Being well positioned tobenefit from these global trends, international growth willbe key to Hilites success.
235m invested by 3i For more information, go to: Strategy and performance p16 and p17 Key Group financial performance measures p17 Overview Strategy, Business Business review Risk Corporate Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other model and KPIs responsibility information 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7 Brazil: access to a rapidly Improved investment growing market for 3i and andportfolio management itsportfolio processes In April 2011, 3i appointed Marcelo Di Lorenzo to lead a team The restructuring of our Private Equity business in Europe of experienced private equity investors, based in So Paulo, and the appointment of Simon Borrows as Chief Investment to build a business in this rapidly growing region.
With the Officer CIO reinforced the changes being made to improve support of a strong local advisory board, the team also investment quality.
provides 3is portfolio in other countries with increased knowledge of, and access to the Brazilian market.
20% of 3is existing portfolio has sales or operations in Latin America.
Net operating expenses: In December 2011, 3i announced its first investment in Brazil, a $55million investment in Blue Interactive Group.
morethan halved since 2008 Blue is the largest independent cable TV and broadband A further 23million reduction in annual net operating provider in Brazil and the investment will be used to expand expenses brings the total reduction in annual net operating Blues footprint from the 14 cities it currently operates in.
This 58% decrease was achieved as the business has been funding growth in several key areas, most notably in Infrastructure and Debt Management, growing its Private Equity business in developing markets, as well as developing its approach to Building on our success responsible investing.
in DebtManagement 3i first established a debt management capability in 2007 and, in 2011, following the acquisition of MIM from Mizuho, formed a distinct Debt Management business line.
Responsible Investing: During the year we launched the Credit Opportunities Fund, akeyelement of the 3i brand Palace Street I and closed our second private equity fund offunds, Vintage II.
This, combined with the improvement We have invested in new Responsible Investing RI inperformance of the funds acquired, has resulted in a systems and processes, linked these to a series of values business generating fees of 32million and with assets workshops for our staff and placed even greater emphasis under management of 3,358million.
on Environmental, Social and Governance ESG issues inour investment and portfolio processes.
LNI: a powerful combination ofinfrastructure expertise andNordic knowledge 3i and 3i Infrastructure plc invested 28million and 195million respectively in January 2012 in a 1.5billion transaction to form LNI through the acquisition of two businesses from Vattenfall AB.
LNI now comprises the second-largest electricity distribution network in Finland, as well as a broad-based local district heating network.
This further diversifies the Infrastructure portfolio geographically.
