Our results at a glance An 11 per cent increase in the 2012 financial year dividend takes the compound annual growth rate of our progressive dividend to 26 per cent over the last 10 years.
Strong momentum established with annual production records achieved at 10 operations.
Our low-risk, largely brownfield projects in execution are expected to create substantial shareholder value.
Underlying EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes decreased by 15 per cent to US$27.2 billion and Attributable profit excluding exceptional items declined by 21 per cent to US$17.1 billion.
Exceptional items totalling US$1.7 billion contributed to a 35 per cent decline in Attributable profit to US$15.4 billion.
Underlying EBIT margin remained at a robust 39 per cent, while Underlying return on capital was 23 per cent.
Net operating cash flow of US$24.4 billion reflected the strong cash generating capacity of the business throughout the economic cycle.
Gearing of 26 per cent remains within the parameters defined by our solid A credit rating.
In FY2012, three fatalities occurred at controlled operations.
The FY2012 total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance of 4.7 per million hours worked improved by six per cent compared with FY2011 5.0.
Underlying EBIT Attributable profit Dividends declared Community contributions at 30 June excluding exceptional items US$27.2 billion US$6 billion US$214 million US$1 7.
Underlying EBITDA is Underlying EBIT before depreciation, impairments and amortisation.
We believe that Underlying EBIT and Underlying EBITDA provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
b Net operating cash flows are after net interest and taxation.
d Represents the dividend declared for each BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited share.
e Gearing is net debt over net debt plus net assets.
The measure is inclusive of continuing operations of Group companies and jointly controlled entities.
