Amlin at a glance Amlins global footprint Our businesses Amlin plc Amlin consists of three well GWP: 2,405.6m Net assets: 1,491.4m capitalised underwriting entities.
Syndicate 2001 in Lloyds underwrites UK and international Syndicate 2001 Amlin AG Amlin Europe N. V. insurance and reinsurance.
Amlin Funds at Lloyds: 620.2m Net assets: $1,625.7m Net assets: 286.6m AG is a reinsurer with operations in Bermuda and Zurich.
Amlin Europe underwrites Continental Amlin London Amlin Bermuda Benelux European commercial insurance.
GWP: 1,066.1m GWP direct : $542.9m GWP: 505.6m Amlin UK Amlin Re Europe France GWP: 372.6m GWP: 206.5m GWP: 81.6m Our markets Amlins global portfolio of reinsurance and insurance spans more than 30 classes of business.
These are categorised into four main markets: Reinsurance, International Property & Casualty, Marine & Aviation, and Commercial & Domestic insurance.
More about each of these can be found on pages 34 to 41.
The majority of Amlins business is sourced through independent insurance brokers who provide a highly efficient global distribution network for Amlins diverse business lines.
Amlin 1 A A A A A London 3 Amlin Europe Benelux A A A A A Amlin A A A A A Singapore 6 A Amlin London operates through Syndicate Amlin Europe was formerly Amlin A Amlin Singapore operates as par A t of 2001 at Lloyds.
It is organised into three Corporate Insurance.
It is a leading Syndicate 2001 through the Lloyds Asia business units: Reinsurance, Property & provider of marine, commercial property platform and underwrites specialty lines, Casualty and Marine & Aviation, providing and liability insurance in the Benelux mainly marine energy, hull and cargo.
Amlin a a diverse portfolio of risks.
Offices are located in Amstelveen, Singapore also leads a regional specialist Rot R terdam, Brussels and Antwerp.
terrorism and sabotage consor te tium.
2 A A A A A Amlin UK A Amlin UK is our UK commercial 4 Amlin Europe F A A A A A rance Amlin 7 A A A A A Bermuda insurance business, operating through Amlin Europes F A rench business is Amlin Bermuda operates as Amlin A A G Syndicate 2001.
It is a leader in fleet based in Paris with an office in Lyon.
and writes mainly global reinsurance motor business and also underwrites a It underwrites a range of specialist business.
Amlin Bermuda also range of other commercial lines sourced commercial classes with a focus on underwrites quota share reinsurance through both retail and wholesale SME specialty business.
S of Syndicate 2001 and provides brokers and other distribution channels.
reinsurance for ot r her Group entities.
5 Amlin Re Europe A A A A A Amlin UK is based in Chelmsford with Amlin Re Europe is par A t of Amlin AG.
8 Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc. A A A A A regional offices in Basingstoke, Norwich, It was established in Zurich in 2010 to Amlin Reinsurance Managers Inc. was A Nottingham and Manchester.
underwrite non-life treaty reinsurance set up in 2012 to underwrite onshore business for insurers in the Continental US casualty reinsurance on behalf of European market.
It is based in New Jersey, USA.
