Overview: At a glance Building a strong brand across our services The structure of our business Our products and services Bank of Georgia Holdings is a UK-Incorporated holding Retail Banking company of JSC Bank of Georgia, representing the Banks Bank of Georgia operates the largest retail bank in Georgia, ultimate parent company and together with the Banks with market share of 32.4%, based on loans to individuals subsidiaries making up a group of companies.
BGH was and a 30.6% based on deposits from individuals as of incorporated under the laws of England and Wales in 31 December 2012.
Retail Banking, the largest provider October 2011 and became the parent holding company of personal loans in the country, provides services to more of the Group on 28 February 2012 upon the successful than one million clients in Georgia and more than 2,000 completion of the tender offer by BGH whereby it acquired sales forces assist clients with their checking, savings 98.35% of the issued share capital of Bank of Georgia accounts, money-transfers, mortgage loans, consumer Tender Offer.
On the same day, the shares of BGH loans, micro and SME business loans, Point of Sale POS were admitted to the premium listing segment of the loans, automobile loans, pawn loans and other banking Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading services through 194 branches across the country.
on the London Stock Exchange plcs Main Market for Corporate Banking listed securities LSE.
Corporate Banking is the countrys largest corporate lender Bank of Georgia and delivers extensive sector knowledge, local expertise and Bank of Georgia is a commercial bank established in dedicated service to more than 7,600 corporate clients in December 1994 under the laws of Georgia.
Corporate Banking extends loans and other credit theGroups main operating unit and accounts for most facilities to its corporate clients representing various sectors of the Banks activities.
of the economy, which, among others, include retail and wholesale trade, industry and state, pharmaceuticals and Bank of Georgia is the leading bank in Georgia based healthcare.
Corporate Banking provides leasing services ontotal assets with 36.7% market share, total gross through the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary Georgian loans with35.4% market share, total client deposits Leasing Company GLC and encompasses the countrys with 33.1%market share and equity with 39.7% market leading trade finance business and most recently launched share as of31December 2012.
As the countrys largest Research Department.
lender, Bank ofGeorgia provides a broad range of banking products andservices to more than one million clients Asset and Wealth Management in its distribution network of194 branches, 478 ATMs, Bank of Georgias Asset and Wealth Management business 221 Express Pay terminals, afull-service remote banking attracts deposits from wealthy local and international clients.
platform and a modern call centre.
The Group also provides AWM clients include institutions and high net-worth individuals leasing, asset and wealth management, insurance and from more than 60 countries.
In line with the Groups strategy brokerage services to its clients in Georgia.
of expanding the sale of wealth management products and services internationally, the Bank has set up representative The Groups activities are organised into three main offices in Tel Aviv, London and Budapest which provide businesses that are strategic, synergistic and non-core.
information services to Asset and Wealth Management clients.
Strategic businesses comprise Retail Banking, Corporate Banking provided by Bank of Georgia as well as Asset and Wealth Management AWM.
Synergistic businesses comprise Insurance and Healthcare and Affordable Housing.
Non-core businesses are banking operations in Belarus through Belarusky Narodny Bank BNB, and Joint Stock Company Liberty Consumer Liberty Consumer, a Georgia-focused investment company.
6 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Share in the Groups consolidated assets 37 % 34 % Retail Banking, Corporate Banking and Asset and Wealth Management Bank of Georgia Aldagi BCI market Bank of Georgia 87% market share as of share as of Insurance and Healthcare 31 December 2012 30 September 2012 Aldagi BCI 6% Affordable Housing 2% BNB 3% Other 2% Aldagi BCI Insurance and Healthcare The Group provides insurance and healthcare products and 1, 063,207 services through its wholly-owned subsidiary Aldagi BCI.
Total number of customers Aldagi BCIs healthcare business consists of My Family across our Georgian banking Clinic, Georgias leading healthcare provider, operating a businesses in 2012 chain of healthcare centres in Georgia in line with the Groups strategy of vertically integrating its insurance and Retail Banking healthcare businesses.
Aldagi BCI is Georgias leading Building customer-driven franchise provider of life and non-life insurance products, based on a through segment approach, while market share of 33.1% of the life and 33.5% of the non-life shifting customers to electronic insurance markets as of 30 September 2012 based on channels to capture an unbanked gross insurance premium revenue.
Its healthcare operation portion of the population and owns and operates 6 outpatient clinics and 26 hospitals in improve efficiency Georgia, predominantly in Western Georgia.
Affordable Housing The Affordable Housing business consists of the Groups wholly owned subsidiary m2 Real Estate formerly SBRE, which develops and sells affordable residential apartments and also holds investment properties repossessed by the Bank from defaulted borrowers and manages those properties.
m2 Real Estate business is in place to support the Groups strategic retail mortgage lending business and Corporate Banking Asset and Wealth to capitalise on the current unsatisfied demand for affordable Having achieved leadership Management in corporate banking sector, Aims to build regional housing stock in Tbilisi.
The Group outsources the construction the Corporate Banking business asset management business and architecture works and focuses on project management is focused on fee generating on the existing wealth and sales, which is supported by the Banks well-established business including advisory management platform brand name and superior distribution channels assisting it services in marketing its properties and mortgage products.
Non-core The Groups non-core businesses comprise Belarusky BNB the Groups subsidiary in Belarus and Liberty Consumer.
Through BNB the Group provides retail banking and corporate banking services in Belarus.
Most of the Groups other investments are held through Liberty Consumer, a Georgia-focused investment company in which the Bank Insurance and Healthcare Affordable Housing holds a 67% stake.
In order for the Group to focus on its Aldagi BCI, the leading vertically Supporting the Groups strategic strategic businesses, the Group intends to exit from its integrated healthcare and mortgage lending business while other non-core operations, including Liberty Consumer insurance service provider to capitalising on high demand and, in due course, itsinterest in BNB.
capitalise on the rapidly growing for housing insurance and healthcare For the full list of JSC Bank of Georgia subsidiaries please markets in Georgia through the see Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Groups superior network and Market share data throughout the Annual Report is based on the cross selling capabilities information provided by the National Bank of Georgia NBG.
For Bank of Georgia, market share represents market share based on total assets on a standalone basis, as of 31 December 2012, unless noted otherwise.
For Aldagi BCI, market share is provided based on the gross insurance premium revenue as of 30 September 2012.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 7 Prod Offering a new type of banking through constant product innovation Bank of Georgia customers can use 194 bank branches, 478 ATMs and 221 Express Pay terminals across the country as well as online and mobile services.
In a short time, we have made dramatic progress in providing customers with a great banking experience through innovative technology and client-oriented services.
Loans GDP 40 31.8% 33.4% 31.4% 30.2% 28.8% 30 27.0% 19.4% 20 14.9% 9.8% 9.2% 10 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Source: NBG For more information about Express Banking see Pg 39 8 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information ducts Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 9
