Group highlights Delivering our strategy We have made good progress in our financial performance in 2012, increasing ongoing operating profit by 9.3% over the prior year.
We continued to implement our transformation plan, as demonstrated by our return to underwriting profit.
We successfully completed an Initial Public Offering on the London Stock Exchange in partial fullment of RBS Groups European Commission divestment obligation Performance highlights t Maintained our position as the t Balance sheet efficiency augmented through UKs leading personal lines insurer the issue of 500 million of subordinated debt following U K Insurance Limited, the t New and extended partnership Groups main underwriter, being assigned arrangements with Sainsburys Bank, credit ratings of A by Standard and Poors Nationwide Building Society, RBS and A2 by Moodys and NatWest t Successful separation from RBS Group and t Extended the presence of Churchill and subsequent Initial Public Offering of 35% Privilege Motor and Home products to of Direct Line Groups Ordinary Shares in the four major UK PCWs October 2012 t significant investment in pricing and t Announced targets of 98% combined operating claims capabilities, contributing to ratio in 2013, 100 million of gross annual improved financial performance cost savings in 2014, and an overall target of a 15% return on tangible equity Customer focused business Leading brands and Multi-channel Direct customer Robust balance sheet significant scale distribution relationships and financial strength Quality products to Ease of purchase Good value and Peace of mind meet customer needs Our multi-brand, multi-channel quality service Our solid financial position We have continued to invest in distribution approach continues Our direct activity enables means that we are in a our leading brands, refreshing to be the central focus for us.
us to focus on providing high position to provide protection our brand advertising campaigns Customers can choose from quality service to customers for our customers.
and sharpening the alignment of a variety of channels when who value a direct relationship our brand portfolio to our target purchasing our products.
2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Financial highlights 1 2 Return on tangible equity KPI In-force policies 1 11.
Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations 2.
The profit before tax for the year to divided by the Groups average tangible shareholders equity.
profit after tax 31 December 2012 was 249.1 million 2011: 342.9 million.
is adjusted to exclude Run-off operations, and restructuring and other one-off 3.
Earnings adjusted to exclude restructuring and other one-off costs costs and is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate : and the result of our Run-off operation.
Pro forma return on tangible equity is based on the return on tangible equity but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group 1 billion dividend payment and 500 million long-term subordinated debt issue occurred on 1 January 2012.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 3
