Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown at a glance We are the UKs largest direct to We continue to invest in technology investor investment supermarket to enhance our client services such with an annual turnover in excess of as new iPhone and Android apps, 238 million.
We administer more additional stockbroking facilities than 26 billion of investments and even lower prices.
in our ISA, SIPP and Investment accounts for over 425,000 clients, and have arranged investments for over a million clients.
Our clients saved more than We provide award winning services.
200 million on investment 95% of our clients rated our service charges last year.
as good, very good or excellent.
Our business We aim to help investors make more of their investments by providing the best information, the best service and the best prices.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company and no one else.
The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Where we refer in this report to other reports or material, such as a website address, this has been done to direct the reader to other sources of information which may be of interest to the reader.
Such additional materials do not form part of this Report.
1 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
