overview Britvic is one of the leading soft drinks companies in Europe, with operations in Great Britain GB, Ireland and France.
Across these three markets, the company has developed a strong portfolio of its own iconic brands, including Robinsons, Tango, J O, drench, MiWadi, Ballygowan, 2 Teisseire and Fruit.
In addition, in GB and Ireland, the company produces and sells a number of PepsiCos famous soft drinks brands, including Pepsi, 7UP and Mountain Dew Energy, under exclusive agreements with PepsiCo.
Britvic is the largest supplier of branded still soft drinks and the number two supplier of branded carbonated soft drinks in GB, and it is an industry leader in Ireland and France.
Through export, licensing and franchising, Britvic has also been growing its reach into other territories, particularly Australia and the United States.
Britvics management team has successfully developed the business through a clear strategy of organic growth and international expansion based on creating and building scalable brands.
Britvic is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code BVIC.
Its market capitalisation at 1 October 2012 was 866 million.
8% 0% All numbers and comparisons quoted are on a constant currency basis, and before exceptional and other items unless otherwise stated.
Return on invested capital roic - roic is dened as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is dened as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the nancing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
The roic has been re-stated for prior year as it now includes the reduction in the asset base taken in ireland in 2010 and the results and assets of britvic france, both of which were previously excluded from the measure to ensure a like for like comparison.
