At a glance Below we summarise the key financial metrics we use to monitor business Highlights performance.
We have delivered a strong financial performance during the 11 12 10 11 2011 12 year.
The increase in Revenue 197.0m 111.4m revenue reflects the transition to direct sales in the US of our Specialty Gross profit 140.7m 77.3m Pharmaceuticals products and a full 1 Underlying operating profit 54.0m 1.7m year of Biocompatibles sales.
Revenues were also boosted by Profit loss before tax for the year 23.0m 10.8m higher than expected royalties 1 Underlying basic earnings per share 11.4p 1.0p from BeneFIX Factor IX and Zytiga abiraterone acetate.
2 Including held to maturity financial assets.
02 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Focus areas Specialty Pharmaceuticals Interventional Medicine Licensing & Biotechnology See page 8 See page 11 See page 13 The current focus within Specialty Our key products are embolisation This business area comprises Pharmaceuticals is on antidote and drug-eluting beads used primarily licensed products and programmes products that are used within to treat patients with liver tumours and generates significant royalties for hospitals.
We market and sell our and brachytherapy products used BTG.
We out-license assets that we products directly in the US, and mainly for early-stage prostate do not intend to market ourselves.
elsewhere we work with distribution cancer.
We assumed direct sales partners.
responsibility in the US for LC Bead in January 2012.
Commercial sales Commercial sales Commercial sales CroFab crotalidae polyvalent LC Bead, DC Bead and Bead Block Existing royalty streams include immune fab ovine Embolisation and drug-eluting beads Zytiga abiraterone acetate, a The only approved treatment for bites that are used to treat patients with treatment for advanced prostate by North American pit vipers.
cancer marketed by the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of DigiFab digoxin immune fab ovine Brachytherapy implants Johnson & Johnson, and the The only available treatment for Low-dose radioactive seeds used Two-Part Hip Cup, licensed to toxicity associated with the use primarily to treat early-stage prostate most major hip-replacement of the heart medicine digoxin.
Voraxaze glucarpidase Approved in the US for treating life-threatening toxicity that can occur in cancer patients with renal impairment who are receiving high-dose methotrexate therapy.
Late-stage development Late-stage development Late-stage development Uridine triacetate Varisolve polidocanol endovenous Lemtrada alemtuzumab Under development by Wellstat microfoam PEM In Phase III development by Sanofi Therapeutics Corporation as a A non-surgical product that has as a potential treatment for relapsingtreatment for toxicity associated completed Phase III development in remitting multiple sclerosis.
with use of the chemotherapeutic the US as a potential comprehensive 5-fluorouracil.
BTG has acquired treatment to improve both the AZD9773 CytoFab US and EU commercial rights.
symptoms and appearance of In Phase IIb development by varicose veins.
AstraZeneca as a potential treatment for severe sepsis and or septic shock.
Growth strategy Growth strategy Growth strategy We are seeking to in-license or We plan to continue investing in We are currently assessing options acquire additional antidotes, as well clinical development of the bead for the CellMed platforms and as other products used by acute care products to expand their indicated early-stage programmes we acquired and other specialist physicians.
We are not are also seeking to acquire additional actively seeking to develop or acquire products used by interventional products for out-licensing.
radiologists, medical oncologists and vascular surgeons.
03 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Voraxaze glucarpidase Specialty Pharmaceuticals Approved and launched in the US, this is the only drug which can break down methotrexate in the blood following cancer treatment.
Hundreds of patients a year may benefit from this new treatment, many of whom are children with cancers such as lymphoma.
Business review Varisolve polidocanol endovenous microfoam PEM Interventional Medicine A non-surgical experimental treatment for varicose veins, that has completed Phase III development in the US.
If approved, PEM could potentially transform this underserved market as a comprehensive single-product treatment for symptomatic and or visible varicose veins.
