Jupiter in brief A focused, active fund manager with a well-known brand and a reputation for delivering investment outperformance Our vision: Value creation through long-term outperformance Delivery against objectives Our business model Strong investment performance with We are focused on delivering investment 79 per cent.
of our mutual fund assets outperformance after fees to our clients above median over three years.
over the medium to long term.
We achieve this through the active management of Net mutual fund inows of 1.6bn driven a broad range of equity, xed income by this outperformance due to the strength and multi-asset products.
of this performance, our recognised brand and international distribution reach.
Investment Record assets under management at the outperformance year end of 26.3bn.
Our strong investment performance is built on a distinctive investment culture which allows talented fund managers the Underlying EPS down one per cent.
freedom to pursue their own individual approaches.
This culture has as benets of deleveraging the balance helped us build a strong track record, with 65 per cent.
of our mutual fund assets having first quartile performance over three years.
sheet reinvested for future business growth.
A robust balance sheet with net cash Effective of 69.0m at year end.
distribution Final dividend increased by 19 per cent.
We have a clear focus on mutual funds, largely distributed to the UK long term savings market.
In recent years we have grown to 6.3p, reecting the improved our distribution presence in continental Europe and Asia.
balance sheet and confidence in future Our strong investment performance, multi-channel distribution approach and recognised brand has led to 6.5 billion of mutual growth prospects.
fund net inows over the past five years.
efficient operations Our scalable operating platform allows us to grow our revenues over the cycle without increasing our xed costs at the same rate.
This combines with a high rate of cash conversion in our business to allow us to maintain a robust balance sheet at the same time as delivering attractive returns to shareholders.
2 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
