At a glance 1 At a glance influence the construction of the portfolio.
As a The Corporation regularly receives enquiries from consequence, it is expected that the Corporations private individuals, IFAs and private client brokers for investment portfolio and performance will deviate from the details they believe are important in reaching decisions comparator indices.
on whether or not to buy Law Debenture shares.
These Because the Corporations assets are invested enquiries have increased since the introduction of the internationally and without regard to the composition of Retail Distribution Review, as brokers and others look indices, there are no restrictions on maximum or minimum to review the suitability of equity investments suitable stakes in particular regions or industry sectors.
such stakes are monitored in detail by the board at each The information that we are most frequently asked to board meeting in order to ensure that sufficient provide is set out in pages 3 to 11. diversification is maintained.
Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the Law Debentures shareholders aim of improving returns to shareholders.
The policy on Law Debenture shares are intended for private investors gearing is to assume only that level of gearing which in the UK retail investors, professionally advised balances risk with the objective of increasing the return to private clients and institutional investors.
In pursuit of its investment objective, aims to achieve for shareholders long term capital investments may be held in, inter alia, equity shares, fixed growth in real terms and steadily increasing income.
interest securities, interests in limited liability partnerships, By investing in an investment trust, shareholders cash and liquid assets.
Derivatives may be used but only typically accept the risk of exposure to equities but with the prior authorisation of the board.
Investment in such hope that the pooled nature of an investment trust instruments for trading purposes is proscribed.
It is portfolio will give some protection from the radical share permissible to hedge against currency movements on both price movements that can sometimes affect individual capital and income account, subject again to prior equities.
Investors should satisfy themselves that they authorisation of the board.
Stock lending, trading in are capable of evaluating the risks and merits of any suspended shares and short positions are not permitted.
investment in equities, including investment trusts.
The Corporations investment activities are subject to the Investment strategy following limitations and restrictions: The Corporation carries on its business as a global No investment may be made which raises the aggregate growth investment trust.
Its objective is set out in the value of the largest 20 holdings, excluding investments in business review.
The aim is to achieve a higher rate of OEICs, Baillie Gifford Pacific, First State Asia Pacific and total return than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index UK gilts, to more than 40% of the Corporations portfolio, through investing in a portfolio diversified both including cash.
The value of a new acquisition in any one geographically and by industry.
company may not exceed 5% of total portfolio value To achieve this, investments are selected on the basis including cash at the time the investment is made, of what appears most attractive in the conditions of the further additions shall not cause a single holding to time.
This approach means that there is no obligation exceed 5%, and board approval must be sought to retain to hold shares in any particular type of company, a holding, should its value increase above the 5% limit.
The independent The Corporation applies a ceiling on effective gearing of fiduciary services businesses do not form part of the 150%.
While effective gearing will be employed in a investment portfolio and are outwith this strategy.
typical range of 90% to 120%, the board retains the ability to reduce equity exposure to below 90% if deemed The Corporations portfolio will typically contain appropriate.
The portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial sector and The Corporation may not make investments in respect of geographic location of investments in order to spread which there is unlimited liability.
Board approval must be sought for any proposed direct investments in certain jurisdictions.
Whilst performance is measured against local and UK The Corporation has a policy not to invest more than 15% indices, the composition of these indices does not of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 2 At a glance continued Factors to take into account when Gearing considering equity investment Investment trusts have traditionally had the benefit of Investment trust shares should, generally, be viewed as being able to gear their portfolios according to market long-term investments.
Some of the key factors to take conditions at the time.
In other words, they can raise debt into account are set out below.
either short or long term to generate funds for further investment i. e. to increase the size of the portfolio or they can sell assets from within the portfolio to reduce Performance debt and even be negatively geared i. e. selling assets Investment trust shares are generally considered to be to hold as cash so that less than 100% of the trusts investments suitable for the longer term.
Their records assets are invested in equities.
are readily available from the website of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Past performance can never give guarantees about future prospects.
Share price and net asset value NAV Investment trusts can trade at a discount where the share price is lower than the combined value NAV of Fee structure the underlying assets or at a premium where the share Investment trusts will typically pay a fee to the investment price trades at a higher level than the underlying NAV.
manager, normally based on the net assets of the Investment trust investors need to understand these portfolio, to which must be added other costs such as concepts as well as examine the underlying portfolio, and custody services, etc.
Some trusts will pay fees based on the way that it is managed, to decide whether or not an performance of the portfolio against a benchmark.
All investment trust share represents good value.
Law investment trusts publish AIC Ongoing Charges cost of Debenture has often traded at a premium to NAV because operating the trust as a means to compare costs between it has a trading subsidiary its independent fiduciary trusts and other investment vehicles such as OEICs.
services businesses, described in more detail on page i Traditionally, investment trusts have had lower total which is not included at estimated current value in the NAV, charges than OEICs and Law Debentures latest but is priced by the market into Law Debentures share published level of Ongoing Charges is one of the lowest in price.
It is therefore important that investors understand the marketplace at 0.47%.
No performance fees are paid this structure and that they take time to recognise the to the investment manager.
considerable benefits that investors in Law Debenture derive from the existence of the independent fiduciary Complexity services businesses.
Investment trusts shares are available for purchase in the market.
In some cases, investment trusts may offer more Liquidity than one class of share, or offer innovative not necessarily Investors also need to look at the tradability and simple subscription offers.
It is important for investors to availability of shares so that they can be reasonably understand the capital structure of any investment they confident that shares can easily be bought and sold.
Law Debentures capital structure is transparent Here, various indices are helpful.
For example, the we have only one class of share ordinary shares and London Stock Exchange publishes a range of data for all each share has the same rights as every other share.
listed companies showing how many shares trade each day, trade pricing, volatility, etc.
Transparency It is important for investors to understand the nature of the Summary underlying investments they are buying into when These At a glance pages are for information purposes investing in an investment trust.
It is not a financial promotion or a recommendation be publishing, as a minimum, details of their entire to buy or sell Law Debenture or any other shares.
It is a portfolio at least twice a year in the annual and semigeneral summary of some of the factors that investors annual reports with regular monthly updates on the should take into account when considering an investment composition of the top ten holdings in the portfolio.
Law Debenture meets this minimum standard and is committed to publishing, on its website www.
com, its full list of underlying shares on a monthly basis commencing July 2013.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
