% 8 5 N V O A I N S I Q V GROUP BY NUMBERS U I I D S T B I STRATEGIC REPORT AT A GLANCE Provident Financial provides tailored credit products to 2.7 million non-standard borrowers in the UK and Ireland.
Our home credit business has been providing small loans, issued in the home and collected weekly, since 1880.
Vanquis Bank issues credit cards to people often excluded by mainstream card issuers, allowing them to participate more fully in the modern world.
It also provides competitive retail deposit accounts for savers.
The groups mission is to be the leading non-standard specialist lender in our chosen markets, acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
STRATEGY Generating high shareholder returns: continue to diversify the groups sources of funding.
Growth of higher-return businesses generate sustainable growth in profits in non-standard markets: and dividends to deliver increasing Acting responsibly in our relationships shareholder returns.
with customers and making a positive deliver on the business effectiveness contribution to the communities served programme in our home credit business maintain a dividend cover of at least by the groups businesses: to generate sustainable growth.
earn high levels of customer satisfaction.
maintain strong growth in Vanquis Maintaining a secure funding and Bank within the UK non-standard capital structure: meet or exceed regulatory requirements.
credit card market, whilst seeking maintain borrowing facilities which, follow our corporate values in the opportunities to utilise the existing together with Vanquis Banks retail treatment of our stakeholders.
business model to expand into other deposits programme, meet contractual geographic markets and products.
invest in the communities in which maturities and fund growth over at our customers and agents live and extend our product offerings to ensure least the next 12 months.
that we have the appropriate range maintain a gearing ratio of no more than of products for our chosen markets.
maintain a system to manage 3.5 times to ensure alignment with the corporate responsibility.
minimum dividend cover target of 1.25 times and the groups growth plans Find out more about our strategy whilst maintaining a comfortable on pages 20 to 23 surplus of regulatory capital over the capital requirements set by the FSA.
YEAR-END M RECEIVABLES 1,513.8 EMPLOYEES 3,780 CUSTOMERS M 2.7 GROUP RECEIVABLES BY BUSINESS 2 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 D A N E R K C R 4 E 2 M % U S N O C STRATEGIC REPORT SECURE FUNDING 2013 PRIORITIES The group borrows money to lend to Consumer Credit Division Vanquis Bank customers.
We believe it is prudent to Continue to focus on the quality Continue to invest in the customer borrow money from different sources of the receivables book through acquisition programme, maintaining to spread the risk as a particular source maintaining a tight stance on new the growth in customer numbers of credit at a particular time may become customer underwriting and the criteria and receivables at similar levels.
The group has three for re-serving existing customers.
Maintain a tight stance on underwriting main sources of funding: Execute on the agenda to bolster and credit line increases.
bank funding committed revolving medium-term growth prospects Complete the pilot in Poland and assess syndicated bank facility.
and business effectiveness including: the viability of whether the customer bonds and private placements - further expansion of the geographic proposition and business model is senior public bonds, private footprint of the business.
capable of delivering the groups placements with UK, US and target returns.
- continued development of the European institutions, and UK product proposition and distribution Consider further opportunities to retail bonds.
channels to the target audience.
leverage the platform, distribution retail deposits taken by Vanquis Bank.
channels and credit expertise within - building the effectiveness of the the UK business.
Find out more about our funding field organisation and IT to free up on pages 55 to 57 agent capacity.
CONSUMER CREDIT DIVISION The Consumer Credit Division offers home credit loans, typically of a few hundred pounds, through a network of local agents.
It has offices throughout the UK and Ireland.
9,800 self-employed agents call on our 1.8 million customers, serving around one in 20 households in the UK.
CASH LOANS VANQUIS BANK Small, cash home credit loans, typically of Vanquis Bank, our credit card business, serves a few hundred pounds, with repayment 899,000 UK credit card customers and our over periods from 14 to 110 weeks.
pilot credit card operation in Poland has 9,000 LOVE2SHOP VOUCHERS customers.
The business also has 9,000 savers through its retail deposits offering.
Shopping vouchers typically repayable over periods from 22 to 50 weeks.
CREDIT CARDS GOLD CARD Visa credit cards with a representative 39.9% APR.
The Gold Card is a plastic card offered to our best customers which can be used SAVINGS PRODUCTS at over 60 online and high street retailers.
1-, 2-, 3- and 5-year high-yield, fixed-rate deposit accounts for savers.
ONE CARD The One Card is a plastic card onto which 210 is loaded the proceeds from a 200 loan plus a 10 bonus.
The card can then be used in retail stores and on the internet YEAR-END M RECEIVABLES 643.3 just like other plastic cards.
EMPLOYEES YEAR-END M 725 RECEIVABLES 870.5 CUSTOMERS M EMPLOYEES 0.9 3,000 CUSTOMERS M 1.8 3 DIVISIONS AND PRODUCTS STRATEGIC REPORT BECKYS WORLD Meet Becky, shes married to Kevin, a self-employed plasterer.
They live in Stockport with their two young children, where they rent a house from the local council.
Becky works part-time in a local supermarket which helps them to balance their finances because Kevins income can fluctuate.
But when the children need new school uniforms and to help spread the cost of Christmas, the credit we offer is a real help.
We can help because we know Becky and her community well, and have the right sort of products to help her manage her familys finances.
An agent visits Becky at home, can assess her situation in a personal but professional way, and can make sure that the loan she takes is affordable.
The fact that there are no hidden extras is also an important factor.
Its a sustainable model weve used for more than 130 years.
SMALL-SUM CREDIT Beckys credit needs WEEKLY HOME VISIT are limited because her The weekly visit to Beckys home family income is limited.
by one of our agents to collect the With home credit she can weekly repayment and meet any borrow the few hundred future credit needs is an invaluable pounds she needs.
part of the home credit service.
The routine of the visits helps encourage Becky to put the money aside for the repayments.
AMOUNT TO REPAY IS FIXED Being on a low income, it CREDIT HISTORY is particularly important to Becky that the total amount Becky and Kevin have had she agrees to repay never problems with credit in the rises.
Even if she misses past when Kevin was out of some repayments, there are work for a while and so they no extra charges whatsoever.
have an imperfect credit history.
Provident is able to lend to them where others may not be able to.
4 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT 5 STRATEGIC REPORT 6 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT STEVES WORLD This is Steve, a postman who lives and works in Milton Keynes.
Like most people, Steve likes to go out with his friends and have the occasional holiday and having recently rented a flat, he needs to be able to buy some home essentials, like a washing machine.
Despite having had a few credit problems in the past, hes now over them, and would like to take advantage of offers in the shops and online, so he applied for a Vanquis Bank credit card.
He is in safe hands with Vanquis Bank because with our low initial credit limits, monthly text reminders and unique systems that track and help manage customer spending patterns, hell be much less likely to get into financial difficulties.
By being more supportive than mainstream credit card issuers, we can work with our customers to develop responsible credit behaviour, so people like Steve can build up a good credit history, not a bad debt.
HIGH LEVEL OF CONTACT SENSIBLE CREDIT LIMITS As a busy full-time postman, Steve appreciates the relatively Steve likes the high level of low credit limit Vanquis Bank has telephone contact Vanquis allowed him because it helps him Bank maintains with him keep in control of his finances.
A and the texts they send credit limit of under 1,000 means him reminding him to that he doesnt over-extend make his repayments.
himself and monthly payments are manageable.
PART OF MODERN LIFE Steves Vanquis Bank card enables him to participate REBUILDING A CREDIT HISTORY more fully in modern-day Like many other people, Steve has life by taking advantage of had credit problems in the past bargains on the internet and but he is now over them.
Steve, getting valuable consumer therefore, appreciates the fact protection when he uses that Vanquis Bank are more his card.
interested in his circumstances now than they are in his past problems and are prepared to help him rebuild a good credit profile.
7 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR WORLD Providents world is one in which there are around 10 million UK non-standard credit customers who demand credit products tailored to their very real needs.
That means tailoring credit products that supply the smaller amounts of credit which customers find useful and lending to them in a way that makes it possible for them to pay back without too much difficulty.
That often means maintaining very close contact with the customer over the period of the loan.
Providents world is also about being a good corporate citizen, which is why we have a serious commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility.
This manifests itself in good corporate governance, lending responsibly to our customers, being a good employer, treating our suppliers fairly, putting something extra into the communities that we serve and looking after the environment.
OUR SUPPLIERS We seek to treat all of our suppliers fairly and in the same manner as we would wish to be treated.
We OUR PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE LENDING recently signed up to the Prompt Payment Code to pay suppliers on We employ 3,780 people This starts with understanding our time, to be clear and transparent across the group, and by customers so we can develop and and to encourage best practice.
helping them to achieve deliver products that are tailored to their potential we also help their needs.
Keeping in close, regular our business to flourish.
contact with customers is an important aspect of responsible lending, either through an agents weekly call at a home credit customers home or through regular telephone contact with Vanquis Bank customers.
THE ENVIRONMENT We are committed to managing COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT our environmental performance to keep our environmental impacts to Our community involvement activities a minimum.
We do this by managing are delivered mainly through our Good our CO emissions from our energy 2 Neighbour programme.
The programme use and travel, and by reducing our draws on the knowledge that comes waste to landfill, paper consumption from having a presence in almost every and water use.
Projects address issues such as crime prevention, unemployment and low levels of educational attainment, as well as health and well-being.
8 PROVIDENT FINANCIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 STRATEGIC REPORT 9
