Schroders at a glance We have built a diversied business model across client types, asset classes and regions which we believe offers defensive characteristics at a time of challenging markets and above-average growth potential in the long term.
We are diverse by Assets under management Awards Clients We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail investors, European Asset Most Innovative Management Firm of the Asset Manager financial institutions and high net Decade 2000 2010 Engaged Investor Financial News Awards for Trustee Awards worth clients from around the Excellence in Institutional world.
No client accounts for more Institutional 58% Asset Management Intermediary 34% than 2 per cent.
Private Banking 8% Image and Reputation Ultra High Net Worth Private Asset Managers PAM Awards Assets We invest in a broad range of asset Multi-Asset Manager Emerging Market Equities, of the Year foreign asset manager classes across equities, xed income, Professional Pensions UK Morningstar Portugal Pensions Awards multi-asset, alternatives and property.
In addition to institutional segregated mandates, we offer over 580 funds Equities 45% Fixed Income 18% in 21 countries.
Multi-asset 20% 4% Emerging Market Debt Financial Adviser of the Specialist Fund UK and Commodities Year ISF Multi-Asset IPD European Property Property 5% Income fund Investment Awards 8% Private Banking Cash Financial Adviser Awards Geography We operate from 34 ofces in Fund Manager of the Year Australia 27 different countries providing local Money Management Lonsec Awards and international investment products to local and international clients.
UK 36% Europe and Middle East 23% Asia 27% Americas 14% Best Fund Group Best Fund Group Equity Mixed Assets Large Lipper Awards Japan Lipper Awards Europe 2 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview We have a long-term focus Supported by a strong financial position Creating enduring client relationships At 31 December 2012, shareholders equity We seek to build long-term relationships with was 2.1 billion.
Maintaining a strong financial our clients and a deep understanding of their position enables us to take a long-term view investment objectives.
2.1billion Shareholders equity 2011: 1.9 billion Investment capital is the capital held in excess of operational and regulatory requirements.
It allows us to invest in both organic and inorganic growth opportunities.
Investment capital m Investing in innovation 2010 774 We develop investment products and solutions to 2011 837 meet the changing needs of our clients.
We also 2012 926 invest our own capital in building a track record in new products before bringing them to the market.
Schroders is rated M1 by the independent ratings agency Fitch.
This is the highest possible rating for an asset manager and recognises our long history, diversied business model and financial stability.
Growing our business We focus on the long term as we invest behind the future growth opportunities for our business.
In 2012, Schroders was named one of Britains most admired companies for its financial strength.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
