COMPANY Carnival Corporation & plc is the largest cruise company and among the most profitable and financially strong leisure travel companies in the world.
Our mission is to take the world on vacation and deliver exceptional experiences that appeal to a large variety of consumers, all at an outstanding value.
Our portfolio of cruise brands in North America, Europe, Australia and Asia are comprised of Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises, Seabourn, AIDA Cruises, Costa Cruises, Cunard, Ibero Cruises, P&O Cruises Australia and P&O Cruises UK.
Together, these brands operate 100 ships totaling 203,000 lower berths with nine new ships scheduled to be delivered between March 2013 and March 2016.
Carnival Corporation & plc also operates Holland America Princess Alaska Tours, the leading tour company in Alaska and the Canadian Yukon, which complements our Alaska cruise operations.
Traded on both the New York and London Stock Exchanges, Carnival Corporation & plc is the only group in the world to be included in both the S&P 500 and the FTSE 100 indices.
b Free cash flow is defined as cash from operations less net capital expenditures.
c Passenger capacity is calculated based on two passengers per cabin.
d As of November 30, except for 2011 passenger capacity and number of ships, which are as of January 23, 2012.
Dear Shareholders: Carnival Corporation & plc is well positioned for a significant earnings recovery despite the challenges our company has faced since 2012.
Most recently, an engine room fire, which occurred on the Carnival Triumph on February 10, 2013, caused a loss of propulsion in the Gulf of Mexico.
The fire was extinguished and no one guest or crew was injured.
I am pleased to report that our extinguishing systems and training, which have been further enhanced over the past two years, worked effectively.
I am sincerely sorry, however, for the frustration, hardship and discomfort our guests had to endure as a result of the journey back to port with limited hotel services.
We are dedicating the full resources of the company to understand what went wrong and to find solutions to avoid a similar occurrence in the future.
Our commitment to the safety and security of our guests and crew has always been and remains our first priority.
In early 2012, theCostaConcordia tragedy had a profound impact on each and every employee of the company, both shipboard and shoreside.
This has driven us to further reinforce our commitment to the safety of our guests and crew.
Since the incident, we have taken steps to identify lessons learned and best practices.
In addition, we have and will continue to implement improvements to our already established procedures and training programs.
2012 Financial Overview Net income for the full year 2012 decreased to $1.3 billion compared to $1.9 billion for the prior year due primarily to a combination of lower revenues and higher fuel prices.
At the same time, our efforts to improve efficiency were effective and our cash flow was strong.
Revenues declined $410 million primarily as a result of the direct and indirect consequences of the Costa Concordia incident.
Net revenue yields declined 2.5 percent constant dollars due primarily to lower cruise ticket prices and occupancies for the Costa brand.
Excluding Costa, we were able to maintain full year 2012 net revenue yields in line with the prior year.
Significantly higher fuel prices reduced earnings by $215 million compared to the prior year.
However, we were able to mitigate that impact by driving down fuel consumption per unit another four percent.
Net cruise costs excluding fuel were slightly lower on a unit basis.
Even with the many challenges faced in 2012, we generated $3 billion of cash from operations, more than enough to fund our net capital investments of $1.8 billion.
All of the resulting free cash flow was returned to shareholders.
Our regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share, combined with a special year-end dividend of $0.50 per share, resulted in $1.2 billion of distributions to our shareholders.
We also purchased 2.6 million of the companys shares in the open market at a cost of $90 million during 2012.
25th Anniversary 2012 also marked the historic 25th anniversary of our initial public offering IPO.
In 1987, our flagship brand, Carnival Cruise Lines, first went public and raised $400 million, which laid the foundation for our future expansion.
Since our IPO, we have grown from a single North American brand with seven ships to a truly global cruise company offering a portfolio of 10 brands and 100 ships serving every segment of the cruise market.
Today, we take great pride in providing rewarding and memorable vacations to nearly 10 million guests each year.
While our company has changed over the years, one area remains constant our commitment to serving the community.
My father, the late Ted Arison, strongly believed in the importance of giving back and that philosophy was ingrained in our corporate culture early on.
We strive each and every year to make a difference in our homeports and various regions around the world in need.
I am proud to report that during the past year Carnival Corporation & plc gave nearly $10 million to charitable organizations, including a $2 million donation to support Hurricane Sandy relief efforts.
The strength of our people, values, culture and mission has driven superior returns for our shareholders.
A dollar invested in Carnival stock 25 years ago would be worth 19 times that today, representing a total return almost twice that of the S&P 500 over the same period.
Vision Looking forward, we remain dedicated to profitably growing our cruise business and driving returns on capital higher.
We continue to expand our fleet through a measured pace of two to three new ship introductions each year.
Some of these vessels are expected to replace existing capacity from the possible sales of older, less-efficient ships.
Currently, we have nine cruise ships scheduled for delivery through March 2016.
Each of our cruise lines has a strong, well-established brand position and continues to attract a growing number of new and repeat customers.
We have strategically timed the introduction of these new ships to allow ample time for each brand to grow its passenger base and absorb the new capacity.
We continue to invest in major capital improvements for our existing fleet which are designed to further enhance the guest experience.
Fun Ship 2.0 is Carnival Cruise Lines multi-year $500 million initial investment to transform its shipboard experience through exciting partnerships and new branded spaces.
We anticipate these types of initiatives will result in higher revenue yields on our existing fleet as well as our new ships as consumers value these exciting new dining and entertainment options.
In addition, we are focused on the growth of emerging cruise regions.
During the past five years, we have doubled our guest sourcing from emerging markets, a trend we expect will continue in the future.
In 2013, we will capitalize on the increasing popularity of cruising in Asia with the deployment of a second Costa ship in China and the launch of a new Princess program for the Japanese vacation market.
As a result of the initial success of the Princess launch, Princess has announced the addition of a second ship to Japan in 2014.
We believe the growing prosperity and size of the Asian vacation market provides significant potential for future growth.
2 We continue to focus on managing costs and have made significant strides toward reducing fuel consumption.
In 2013, we expect to reduce fuel consumption per unit by another five percent.
This will represent a cumulative 21 percent reduction since 2007.
In addition, our profit improvement teams are dedicated to reducing other costs through benchmarking and sharing best practices among our operating companies, as well as gaining efficiencies by implementing new technologies.
Through our collective efforts, we expect to generate increasing cash from operations in 2013 and beyond which should fund our capital investments and provide significant free cash flow.
We remain committed to increasing shareholder returns through a combination of dividend distributions and opportunistic share repurchases.
To that end, we recently announced the renewal of our $1 billion share repurchase authorization.
Our ongoing share repurchase program demonstrates our continued confidence in the earnings power of our global brands.
Strengthened Commitment to Safety As I committed to you last year, in the wake of the Concordia incident, we launched a comprehensive audit and review of safety and emergency response.
This wide-ranging review included consultation with outside experts in several key safety areas to ensure that we understand what went wrong and prevent it from happening again.
As a result of what we learned from this review, we: Are implementing uniform, detailed bridge and engine resource management procedures across all of our operating companies and ships Expanded and accelerated training of our bridge and engine watch teams in those best practices at our CSMART facility in Almere, Netherlands Are restructuring our safety operations audit program to ensure consistent best practices are employed on all of our ships Formed a new corporate Maritime Quality Assurance department to monitor both bridge operations and the implementation of modified policies across all the Health, Environmental, Safety and Security HESS disciplines and provide feedback for continuous improvement in the safety of our operations Are consolidating our HESS operating practices into a single, corporate-wide HESS Management System to ensure uniform application of best practices across our fleet During 2012, we actively participated, in a leadership role, in the Cruise Industry Operational Safety Review that Cruise Lines International Association and European Cruise Council launched on behalf of the global cruise industry.
This industry review encompassed careful examination of existing safety procedures to identify industry best practices and develop new policies for bridge procedure harmonization and bridge access, passenger muster and emergency instructions, and passage planning and approvals.
We are confident that the combination of these comprehensive initiatives provides us with the tools to further enhance the policies and practices that ensure the safety and security of our guests and crew.
The global cruise industry remains one of the worlds safest and I want to reiterate our deep and continuing commitment to protecting the health, safety and security of our guests, employees and all others working on behalf of the company.
In Closing I would like to thank all of our shareholders for their support during this very challenging time.
I would also like to thank the 90,000 shipboard and shoreside employees of Carnival Corporation & plc and our board of directors for their hard work and perseverance during the past year.
I also take this opportunity to recognize Bob Dickinson, Peter Ratcliffe and Modesto Mitch Maidique who will be leaving our board.
Bob was instrumental in propelling Carnival Cruise Lines from a small unknown brand to a cruise industry leader during his 41-year tenure with the company and helped shape the growth of the modern-day cruise industry.
Peter is one of the most highly respected executives to serve in the cruise industry over his 35-year career.
Peter was invaluable during the merger between Carnival Corporation and P&O Princess Cruises plc in 2003, which created the worlds largest cruise vacation group.
Mitch has been a member of our board for 19 years and has provided invaluable guidance and counsel during a period of unprecedented growth.
His significant contributions during nearly two decades on our board were greatly appreciated.
I personally want to thank these gentlemen for their years of service and immeasurable contributions.
Carnival Corporation & plc continues to be a very strong company.
This past year was a testament to our ability to weather a challenging period through the outstanding leadership of our global management teams, the foresight and vision of our board, and the spirit of teamwork shared by our 90,000 employees worldwide.
Our long-term fundamentals remain strong and our brands continue to provide truly exceptional vacation experiences at an outstanding value to millions of satisfied consumers around the globe.
Sincerely, Micky Arison Chairman & CEO Carnival Corporation & plc February 21, 2013 3
