Business model BP at a glance For more information on our business model see pages 10 -14. Who we are Our business model We aim to create value for Finding Developing and extracting shareholders by helping to oil and gas oil and gas meet growing demand for First, we acquire exploration rights, Once we have found hydrocarbons, energy in a responsible way.
then we search for hydrocarbons we work to bring them to the surface.
Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for governments and local communities.
We operate in over 80 countries.
Our priorities are to enhance safety and risk management, earn back trust and grow value.
We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, a world-class operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a good employer.
We are working to build a stronger, safer BP that plays to its distinctive strengths and capabilities: exploration, operations in deep water, the managing of giant fields and gas value chains, and our downstream business.
Innovative technology and strong relationships with governments, partners and communities around the world underpin our activities.
The key performance indicators KPIs for BP are shown on pages 20-21.
Some of the financial KPIs are not recognized GAAP measures, but are provided for investors because they are closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
Group Upstream BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the Our Upstream segment manages its exploration, development and production activities BP group of companies.
Our worldwide through global functions with specialist areas of expertise.
b Employees by business segment Proved reserves 1.
Other businesses 10,400 and corporate replacement cost profit new exploration access and Gulf Coast before interest and tax Restoration Organization Total 85,700 Including service station 2 28 5 2 staff.
3 countries of operation major project start-ups c Liquids $ $ 11.6 bn 20.4 bn 1.
Equity-accounted entities 1,033 profit attributable to operating cash flow Total 5,510 BP shareholders Natural gas 3.
Equity-accounted entities 439 18.7 19 Total 6,175 gearing reduction in loss of a net debt ratio primary containment b Million barrels of oil equivalent.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at a Net debt is not a recognized GAAP measure, 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
Liquids comprise crude oil, condensate, natural gas liquids and bitumen.
2 BP Summary Review 2012 All data provided on pages 2 and 3 is as at, or for the year ended, 31 December 2012.
Transporting and trading Manufacturing Marketing oil and gas fuels and products fuels and products We move hydrocarbons using We refine, process and blend We supply our customers with fuel for pipelines, ships, trucks and trains hydrocarbons to make fuels, transportation, energy for heat and light, lubricants and capture value across the supply lubricants and petrochemicals.
to keep engines moving and the petrochemicals chain.
required to make a variety of everyday items.
Fuels Lubricants Petrochemicals International oil and gas markets Biofuels Downstream Our Downstream segment operates hydrocarbon value chains covering three main businesses fuels, lubricants and petrochemicals.
Investing in renewable energy d Operating capital employed We develop and invest in biofuels and wind.
1 $ 3 BPs lower-carbon businesses and investments 2.8 bn 14.7 million tonnes 2 in future options are operated through our replacement cost profit of petrochemicals produced in Alternative Energy business.
before interest and tax the year % 2.4 million barrels 39 7.2 million tonnes of oil refined per day of our lubricants sales were biofuels total sugar cane crush premium grades capacity per annum 1.
Petrochemicals $5.3bn e 1,558MW net wind generation capacity d e Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, Excludes 32MW of capacity in the Netherlands, which is excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
managed by our Downstream segment.
BP Summary Review 2012 3 BP at a glance continued Where we operate Alaska Fuels BP is active in over 80 countries.
We opened our Alaska office in 1959 and The fuels business is made up of seven acquired our first federal licences that year.
regionally based fuels value chains FVCs, a This map shows our key We now operate 13 oilfields and four pipelines.
number of regionally focused fuels marketing operating sites across the world.
We also own a significant interest in six other businesses, a global aviation fuels marketing producing fields.
business that markets products in more than 45 countries and the global oil supply and The shaded areas indicate countries trading activities.
These businesses sell refined where we have operations.
petroleum products including gasoline, diesel, a aviation fuel and LPG.
Upstream Fuels value chains Primarily 75% liquids.
US: North West, South West, East of Rockies.
Rest of world: Australia and New Zealand, Exploration site.
a Locations are categorized as liquids or natural gas based on 2012 production.
Where production is yet to commence materially, categorization is based on proved reserves.
Exploration sites have no significant proved reserves or production as at 31 December 2012.
Petrochemicals site s. Asset held for sale.
We have interests in 16 wind farms in the US, and operate four ethanol production facilities three in Brazil and one in the UK.
TNK-BP TNK-BP upstream assets wholly or partly owned by TNK-BP.
TNK-BP refineries wholly or partly owned by TNK-BP.
BPs investment in TNK-BP is classified as an asset held for sale in the group balance sheet at 31 December 2012 see page 19.
BP group headcount by region Gulf of Mexico Trinidad & Tobago including 14,700 service station staff We are one of the largest lease holders and BP has been exploring in Trinidad since 1939.
Europe 31,600 producers of oil and gas in the regions deep Today we hold exploration and production 6 1 5 2.
In 2011 we resumed drilling in the region.
licences covering more than 1,800,000 acres.
Asia 16,400 We now produce oil and gas from four operated We operate 13 offshore platforms and an 4.
South and Central 3 America 5,800 hubs and three non-operated hubs.
Russia 300 4 BP Summary Review 2012 North Sea region Azerbaijan Lubricants BP was the first company to find Our major projects include the Azeri-ChiragOur lubricants business manufactures and Gunashli oil field: the Shah Deniz gas field: markets lubricants and related products and hydrocarbons in the North Sea region, in 1965.
We now have one of the largest asset three major terminals: and a number of longservices.
It is a global business marketing bases in the region, operating around 30 oil distance pipelines, including the 1,768km products in more than 70 countries leveraging and gas fields, two major terminals and an Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, which carries oil brand, technology and relationships.
We focus extensive network of pipelines.
across Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
our resources on core and growth markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Angola Petrochemicals We have been involved in Angola since the Our petrochemicals business produces 1970s.
We now hold a position in nine major petrochemicals products at manufacturing deepwater licences, along with equity in the units around the world that, for the most Angola LNG project.
We achieved two major part, use proprietary BP technology.
At the project start-ups in 2012. end of the year the business comprised 15 manufacturing sites with approximately 40% of our capacity in Asia, and 30% in each of Europe and the US.
We sell our products to customers in more than 40 countries.
