Strategic review Overview At a glance Governance Financial statements Other information At a glance Our focus Our strategy Our performance As a pure retail property business, Our strategy is to deliver industry 2012 was a year in which our we focus on winning locations that leading shareholder returns by financial and operational metrics cater to consumer preference for: maximising income from our retail demonstrated the validity of properties and development pipeline.
Experience Creating high-quality property Operational and financial highlights Prime shopping centres which offer We develop or acquire to create occupancy of exciting brands, full-line stores, high-quality compelling retail properties in successful % catering and leisure facilities in a safe, locations which are tailored to the local 97.7 mobile-enabled environment are continuing consumer demographic.
ToTaL propErTy rETurn of See pages 12 to 13 for more details.
% 5.0 Maximising income We aim to maximise occupancy and nET rEnTaL incomE grEw by Convenience footfall at our properties, which support % our retail customers and enable us to Convenient, well-managed retail parks in 2.1 maximise income growth.
out-of-town locations are securing an increasing number of fashion and catering adjusTEd Earnings pEr sharE of tenants, due to their accessibility.
% Capital strength See pages 14 to 15 for more details.
20.9p, 8.3 We operate within a prudent and flexible See pages 32 to 35 for more details.
financial structure which provides financial security whilst allowing us Luxury Profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2012 to act swiftly and decisively.
was 142.2 million 2011: 346.3 million Consumer preferences and increased See pages 4 to 5 for more details.
tourism have driven impressive sales growth at premium designer outlets in major cities throughout Europe.
See pages 16 to 17 for more details.
2 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Overview At a glance Governance Financial statements Other information 2012: a year of transformation In 2012 we announced our decision to Our key investments become a pure retail property company Sold 627 million of office property ExpEriEncE convEniEncE ExpEriEncE Luxury at 7% premium Whitgift Junction Retail Parks Victoria Quarter Value Retail Reinvested 541 million in our m m m m targeted areas 65 260 136 80 Resulting portfolio exclusively focused on winning retail locations 2013 priorities Prepare Les Terrasses du Port for opening Spring 2014 Deliver extensions and refurbishments in our existing portfolio Confirm plans for major developments in Leeds and London Continue to focus on operational efficiency Advance customers multi-channel strategies Identify successful future retail formats and brands Implement Positive Places sustainability programme Identify and execute selective acquisitions Exchanged not yet completed HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 3
