Who we are in brief Our business Our market Land Securities is a FTSE 100 company We are focused on the two largest and the largest Real Estate Investment segments of the UK commercial Trust REIT in the UK on the basis of property market retail and market capitalisation.
SHAPING PROPERTIES FOR 68 YEARS COMBINED PORTFOLIO VALUE Today We now own and manage 10.33bn 2 more than 2.4 million m of commercial property.
46.0% 2000s RETAIL We enter the Property Outsourcing market with the purchase of Trillium in 2000.
54.0% We convert to REIT status in LONDON 2007, and sell Trillium in 2009.
1990s The Company capitalises Cardinal Place, 2012 on the downturn to buy a These markets are cyclical and respond to macronumber of shopping centres.
They are also affected by specific national and local influences such as planning, 1980s Downturn turns to growth.
employment and general business activity.
Land Securities moves into the retail warehouse sector.
Retail We own, manage and develop shopping 1970s centres and retail parks across the UK.
The property crisis of 1974 requires the sale of assets Our assets are in locations that have valued at 200m.
either a proven record of trading success or potential for future success.
For more information on the retail market please 1960s In one of Britains biggest see p4451.
Esso House, 1962 property deals at the time, Land Securities took over The City of London Real London Property Company.
We own, manage and develop a portfolio of ofce, retail and 1950s residential space in the capital.
Our The Company buys key assets are concentrated in central London assets and acquires development company London, from Victoria in the west Ravenseft Properties.
For more information on the London market please see p52 59.
1944 Founded by Harold Samuel when he acquired Land Securities Investment Trust Limited.
Stag Place, 1955 18 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 ESSENTIAL READ Who we are in brief Our strategy Our management Our strategy is to provide an attractive Information on how the Group is total return for our shareholders by managed, our policy on remuneration, being at the forefront of meeting the and the role corporate responsibility space requirements of our customers.
plays in creating and protecting value.
Our focus on the UK commercial property markets two largest sectors gives us a broad range of opportunities and a high-quality tenant base.
We make use of our strong relationships with occupiers and specialist expertise.
We have a clear plan for every asset and allocate capital to exploit our skills and opportunities through the cycle.
In property investment, we add value through active management of assets and the timing of acquisitions and disposals.
In development, we create value by delivering the right product at the right point in the cycle while keeping a tight focus on cost and timing.
It also monitors the balance sheet and financial performance to ensure capital is allocated appropriately across the business and between investment and development activity.
Each Portfolio benets from the Groups highly rated debt structure and its access to attractively priced debt finance.
OUR VISION From the left: Martin Greenslade Chief Financial officer, Robert Noel Chief Executive and Richard Akers Executive Director.
Governance and risk The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group.
It ensures that the right strategy is set, acceptable risks are taken and appropriate financial and human resources are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and benets to the wider community.
The Board also sets standards for ethical behaviour and for monitoring environmental and health and safety performance.
You can read more about governance on p70, and risk on p41.
Remuneration The Board aligns the Companys remuneration policy with shareholders interests.
Pay and rewards should attract the best people to the business and incentivise them to produce superior returns for shareholders.
A substantial part of our OUR VALUES Executive Directors reward is performance-related pay, with incentives to exceed industry benchmarks and outperform our peer group in terms of Total Shareholder Return.
You can read more about remuneration on p82.
Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility plays a key role in how we create and protect value.
By striking the right balance between the economic, environmental and social aspects of our activities we make Land Securities a more successful and sustainable business.
Our aim is to be the property company people choose to work for, work with and invest in.
You can read more about corporate responsibility on p62.
