Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 100 Introduction Our 2012 performance demonstrates that Diageo is a strong business, getting stronger.
We have increased our presence in the faster growing markets of the world.
We have enhanced our leading brand positions through effective marketing and industry leading innovation, and we have strengthened our routes to market, working with our distributors and customers to expand our footprint.
Our platform for growth is strong.
Investing behind our brands TH E T I C K E T Our cutting edge marketing approach is re-igniting consumer Guinness launched a passion for Captain Morgan landmark pan-African advertising campaign.
Filmed in Nigeria, supporting In the US, the new the brands ambition to become Africas number one beer brand by value.
Driving continued growth across the continent with sales of over 4 million hectolitres a year, posting growth of 7 campaign has captured the imagination of consumers, immersing them in the 17th century world of the original Captain Henry Morgan On track to become only the 6th premium spirit to sell 10 million cases globally Captain Morgan volume exc.
RTDs for year ended 30 June 2012: Johnnie Walker Blue Label organic net sales growth for year ended 30 June 2012 9.823 million EUs Guinness organic net sales growth in Africa, for year ended 30 June 2012 Diageo re-launched the iconic Johnnie The to Life, Love and Loot campaign has Guinness has the ambition to become Walker Blue Label bottle, learn more on re-ignited Captain Morgans growth, learn Africas number one beer brand by value, page 3 more on page 24 learn more on page 44 The first spirits related iAd anywhere in the world.
The Johnnie Walker iAd for the Spanish market was developed to support the Keep Walking Project.
JOHNNI E WALKER iAD 822,431 unique exposed consumers took over 2 million steps in the iAd.
2 million steps Resulting in almost 40,000 App taps and over 10,000 App downloads for Croc organic net sales growth, for year ended 30 June 2012 Principal group companies the Johnnie Walker Keep Walking Project App in Spain Croc Peach launched November 2011 183 Diageo Western Europe launched its Johnnie Walker Spain developed the first Croc Peach has become the largest Customer Collaboration Centre, learn ever spirits related iAd to support the Keep revenue generating innovation in US more on page 84 Walking Project, learn more on page 116 spirits history, learn more on page 183 2Diageo Annual Report 2012 The unveiling of the new John i W ker n e al Blue Label bottle was the re-launch of an icon The design speaks to the rarity and authentic luxury credentials behind the ultimate expression of Johnnie Walker Fuelling global net sales growth of 27%
