2 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Dialight at a glance Revolutionary technology Dialight is leading the lighting revolution for industrial users across the world.
Applying leading edge LED technology it produces retro-ttable lighting xtures designed specically for ha ardous locations obstruction signals and trafc signalling to vastly reduce maintenance save energy improve safety and ease disposal.
Dialight comprises the following business segments: Lighting Signals Components whose sales are primarily toElectronics OEMs which addresses the increasing demands for energy which addresses the increasing demands for energy efficient Lighting solutions through the use of efficient Signalling solutions through the use of for status indication andresidual disconnect components for automotive and niche high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of high-brightness LEDs and utilisation of a number of associated technologies.
Areas of business include associated technologies.
SolidState Lighting products for Hazardous Trafc, Vehicle and Obstruction Signals.
45.5m 48.1m 21.5m Revenue Revenue Revenue Key markets We operate within various markets: Oil, gas and petrochemical Chemical and pharmaceutical Process heavy chemical and pharmaceutical Customers involved in exploration and production through to the rening and processing of natural operations take advantage of Dialights maintenance free xtures eliminating the need to resources are benefiting from improved safety, quality of light and reliability.
change bulbs in these dangerous environments.
Mining Heavy industrial Steel processing, pulp, paper and automotive specified due to our products extreme ability to withstand shock and vibration, Dialight hasseen manufacturers and other heavy industrial applications are realising theswitch to tremendous growth in miningapplications.
Dialightstechnology not only improves production but also makes nancialsense.
com Overview Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 3 Overview Natural Gas Compressor Station, Colorado, USA Our values: Innovation Expertise Sustainability Major new product introductions, including Our 40 years of LED proficiency is illustrated Our LED products not only reduce energy our25kw HighBay and other 100 lumen by our ability to continually push the boundaries consumption, but signicantly lower greenhouse perwatt lm W products, continue with our industry leading LED lighting xtures.
gas emissions and eliminate the need for the use tobetherst tomarketin the industry.
of mercury in lighting technology.
Key products Vigilant L 856 LED High Intensity Strobe We are constantly developing new The worlds first and only available LED High products for markets and applications Intensity Strobe is used in obstruction signals which were unable to benefit from applications above 500 feet, eliminating costly SaHeSite LED Area Light LED technology until now.
tower climbs to replaceexisting xtures.
Available with a simple retrot kit, this versatile LED area light replaces up to 250w traditional xtures while consuming only 70w of power.
DuroSite 25,000 Lumen LED High Bay Introduced in 2012, this 100 lm W xture is used in very high ceiling applications and can often eliminate the number of light xtures required to illuminatean area.
