Directors Report Business Overview Group at a Glance We are a leading European electrical retailing and servicescompany UK & Ireland Northern Europe For more information For more information 33 34 please turn to page: please turn to page: www.
cz Our brands Our brands Currys and PC World are the largest specialist Elkjp is the leading specialist electrical retailer electrical retailing and services operators in the across the Nordics.
Elkjp and Lefdal stores operate in Norway, Knowhow is our market leading services brand El Giganten in Sweden and Denmark and Gigantti which puts customers at the heart of everything we do.
Dixons Travel operates in all major UK airports as In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate well as Dublin, Copenhagen, Rome and Milan.
DSGi Business provides computing products andservices to business to business customers.
Highlights Highlights We are well positioned to continue to deliver world-class value, choice The Nordic management team continues to drive the Elkjp business andservice to our customers as we execute the Customer Plan.
Stores forward, retaining market leader status and growing share across the arebeing retted so customers can enjoy the best of both Currys and Nordics.
The division continues to perform well as more stores are PCWorld formats under one roof.
extendedor retted and Superstores are refurbished to the new Groupformat.
We are improving the Customer Journey for each category to help customers purchase the right product with the right solution for their needs.
First class customer service, a cost effective supply chain structure, strong retail sites in all countries and great relationships with suppliers delivers an Our multi-channel offering provides customers with the convenience of excellent shopping trip for Elkjp customers.
onlinetogether with the accessibility of stores, particularly through the reserve&collect facility, and grew 28% during the year.
During the year, Elkjp delivered a strong performance across all four countries with total sales up 10% with a particularly strong performance Under the Knowhow brand, we offer the most comprehensive range in Denmark.
of services to customers such as delivery and installation, set-up, Cloud back-up and Knowhow Movies.
The Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia are now managed alongside the Nordic operations to benefit from the successful Dixons Travel stores deliver a wide range of products aimed at the Nordic business model.
An agreement was signed with Harrods to sell leading edge electrical products as well as Knowhow services from their iconic London store.
Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space million 000 sq ft million 000 sq ft 3,834 587 7,978 2,628 315 5,038 Average selling Average employees Average selling Average employees area per store sq ft area per store sq ft 13,591 20,851 15,994 8,748 04 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Business Overview Underlying sales by division 1.
Southern PIXmania For more information 36 Europe please turn to page: For more information 35 please turn to page: www.
com Our brands Our brands Kotsovolos is Greeces leading specialist PIXmania is one of the largest pure play electrical electrical retailer.
retailers in Europe operating in 26 countries.
In Italy, we operate Unieuro electrical stores with some as combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores.
In Turkey, we operate the Electroworld brand with a local joint venture partner.
Highlights Highlights Despite the economic instability across Southern Europe, Unieuros PIXmania has experienced a difficult year with a number of factors impacting customer offer has improved and the turnaround of the business has enabled performance, some of which could not have been foreseen.
The natural Unieuro to trade ahead of its competitors.
In the difficult trading environment, disasters in Japan and Thailand severely limited the supply of key product further cost reduction has been identied to strengthen the business.
lines in photography and digital storage.
A difficult trading environment in Greece remains challenging for Kotsovolos.
PIXmania has been transforming its operating model and widening its The business, however, remains the market leader and furtheractions product categories.
PIXplace, its market place, continues to grow strongly to reduce costs in the business have limited the impact oftheweak with over 1,500 active third party resellers offering over 1.5 million products sales environment.
PIXmania now operates 27 stores giving customers more exibility for reserve&collect.
Further investments in E-merchant, its market Electroworld in Turkey continues to expand in an exciting growth market.
leading e-commerce platform for third party customers, has seen it win the Carrefour account, launched in November 2011 and more recently Celio, one of Frances largest menswear brands with a launch planned for summer 2012.
It has also been streamlining processes and reducing costs.
Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space million 000 sq ft million 000 sq ft 1,060 282 3,863 665 27 43 Average selling area Average employees Average selling area Average employees per store sq ft per store sq ft 13,699 5,075 1,592 1,402 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 05
