02 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 At a glance Our Aim: To achieve leadership in our chosen markets delivering both exceptional value to our customers and superior returns to our shareholders.
Investment proposition Our business Domino designs, manufactures and sells equipment, consumables, Our track record spare parts and services, which enable manufacturers to print variable an experienced and proven management team delivering data onto their products as part of the production, packaging or sustained growth, profits, cash generation and creation finishing process.
of shareholder value We supply coding and marking solutions to identify, authenticate or personalise products, providing information to consumers or users, Strong drivers of demand and in authentication of products and protection of brand value for legislation led, applicable across many sectors in all major manufacturers.
Our digital printing technologies are also used in economies high-speed web based applications and in the binding, plastic cards and newspaper industries.
A robust business model combining the growth opportunity from product innovation and new technology with sustained aftermarket revenues from a large equipment installed base a broad customer base with no dependence upon any one customer or cluster of customers A global network of experienced sales subsidiaries and distributors Cash reinvestment an ongoing commitment to R&D to maintain product Our products and solutions leadership acquisition of complementary businesses and products Our diverse range of technologies enable us to offer solutions tailored to extend capabilities to individual customer needs and together with our industry leading service network, ensures maximum production uptime.
Shareholder return Domino technologies include Continuous Ink Jet, Thermal Transfer a progressive dividend policy resulting in dividend growth Overprinting, Drop on Demand Ink Jet, Print & Apply Labelling in every year to date since the Companys listing in 1984 and Laser, providing a full solution capability.
Complete customer solutions require innovative software for effective manufacturing line integration.
Dominos coding automation systems, combined with expert applications knowledge and support, enable us to provide a complete customer solution.
03 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 South UK Central Asia Global presence America 7% Eastern Pacific Regional sales 4% Europe 27% per cent of total 5% Key markets: Developed Developing North Western Middle East America Europe Africa 21% 29% 7% Americas Europe ROW Sales Sales Sales 137.3m 131.3m 127.6m 128.3m 124.5m 106.6m 107.2m 92.6m 76.1m 76.7m 71.7m 70.2m 61.1m 60.0m 64.7m 1 Sectors we serve 7 1 Food and Beverage 42% 2 Pharmaceutical and Healthcare 13% 6 3 Construction and Chemicals 5% In depth sector expertise and market based solutions enable us to 4 Industrial 11% differentiate and rapidly respond to the diverse needs of our chosen 5 5 Electronic Components 6% markets.
Our breadth of industry coverage reduces our risk or 6 Printing 9% dependency on individual sectors.
4 7 Other 14% 3 2 Note: estimated split of Group revenue.
