Ov Over ervie view w G4S at a glance Our vision Our operating segments Our vision is to be recognised as the We assess and manage security and globalleader in providing secure safety risks for buildings, infrastructure, outsourcing solutions, to help customers materials, valuables, people and society.
to achieve their own strategic goals and We segment our services into two key service lines secure solutions and cash solutions.
to deliver sustainable growth for G4S andlong-term value for shareholders.
Secure solutions Integrated security solutions for commercial organisations in areas such as risk consulting, manned security and security systems and a range of services including protection of critical national infrastructure, care and justice services, integrated facilities services and border protection for governments.
Cash solutions Outsourcing of cash cycle management for central banks, financial institutions and retailers.
Find out more on pages 32 to 40 for a review ofsecure solutions and cash solutions Turnover by segment 2012 % 18% Cash solutions 23% Secure solutions government 59% Secure solutions commercial excluding Olympic Games contract 02 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our key sectors and customers Our broad geographic reach Our two key customer groups G4S has a unique global footprint are commercial businesses and withoperations in over 125 countries, governments.
In the commercial sector including a strong presence in higher we have a broad customer base with growth developing markets.
thousands of commercial customers Find out more on page 15 ranging from small local companies to large multinational corporations.
Turnover by region 2012 The duration of customer contracts vary, from high- % prole annual contracts for securing sporting or entertainment events to 25-year government contracts 3 19% North America for the construction and management of prisons.
Inpractice, many of our customer relationships are long-term and result in contracts being renewed regularly, resulting in high customer retention rates that are above 1 48% Europe 90% averaged across the group annually.
2 33% Developing markets Find out more on our customers and key sectors on pages 32 to 40 excluding Olympic Games contract Turnover by sector 2012 1 UK, Ireland and Continental Europe % 2 Middle East and Gulf States, Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, South Asia and Asia Pacic Major corporates and industrials 100% 3 USA and Canada 28% Government 23% Financial institutions 19% Retail 9% Private energy and utilities 8% Ports and airports 4% Consumers 4% Transport and logistics 3% Leisure and tourism 2% excluding Olympic Games contract G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 03
