| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 02 Greggs at a glance We are passionate about baking and offer our customers quality, fresh food at great value prices.
We take enormous pride in our food, hand making all our sandwiches and baking all our savouries each day in our shops to give our customers unrivalled freshness.
As well as on the UKs high streets and in shopping centres, Greggs can increasingly be found at retail, industrial and business parks, bus interchanges, universities, airports and other locations where people live, work, travel and spend their leisure time.
Routes Our Network to Market Food on the go Wholesale In 2012 we opened 48% of our We now supply a range of Britains net new shops in locations away 21 savoury and sweet lines from high streets, to make in dedicated Greggs cabinets Greggs even more accessible sold in over 750 Iceland frozen Favourite to people at work, travelling food stores around the UK and at leisure.
Baker Greggs the Bakery Franchise Our newest local bakery A partnership with Moto which concept shops give customers brings together Britains biggest a more traditional bakers shop operator of motorway service 240 experience, offering new lines areas and Britains biggest including artisan breads, new bakery retailer will see 30 Shops in Scotland: 18 net new shops opened in 2012 and traditional cake ranges Greggs at Moto service and exciting shop window areas across the UK.
displays, all alongside our best-loved products.
Greggs moment Our new coffee shop format 211 where customers can relax Shops in the North West: in a modern, contemporary 5 net new shops opened in 2012 environment and enjoy a menu of outstanding bakery food with a wide selection of freshly ground coffees and teas.
302 Shops in Central: 16 net new shops opened in 2012 221 Shops in South West: 15 net new shops opened in 2012 Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 03 Our Vision & Values 1,671 Shops Our vision is to be A record 100 net new shops opened in 2012 the number one for sandwiches and savouries from a united team who are passionate about being the best in bakery.
For our customers... We offer a wide range of fresh, great tasting, high quality food, made with wholesome ingredients.
Our highly trained staff handmake sandwiches in our shops each day.
For our people... We aim to provide a great place to work, where our people feel valued, are looked after, and where each individual is recognised as integral to the success of our business.
Our values: we will be 258 enthusiastic and supportive Shops in the North East: in all that we do, open, 7 net new shops opened in 2012 honest and appreciative, B B treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
B For our communities... B H 10 We promise to continue to help make a difference Motorway services shops to peoples lives.
B For our shareholders... B We have a proven track record of success and return on investment.
Importantly, in 5 todays economic climate more Greggs moment than ever, we offer the assurance coffee shops B and commitment that our business is run with integrity and that we are a responsible B B Company.
We are proud that B Greggs is a trusted, valued and respected brand.
H Head Ofce B Bakeries 209 215 Shops in London: Shops in the South East: 10 net new shops opened in 2012 14 net new shops opened in 2012
