"Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 01 OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS ApproximatelyUS$971,000 spent on Corporate Social Responsibily 2012 ""CSR"" related initiatives, c. 39% higher than 2011 Community projects implemented through health, educationand social programme investments across all operating regions Zero whistle-blowing cases or breaches in business conduct principles Zero Lost Time Incidents LTIs or fatalities across all operations Employment of local peopleremains high across all operations Acquired an interest in a producing oil mining licence, OML 30 in Nigeria through Shoreline Natural Resources Limited Shoreline Commencedadoption of Heritages CSR policies and systemsin the Shoreline joint venture Employees Environment and sustainability Number of local people employed, % Environmental incidents, fines or sanctions, alloperations 100 0 75 50 Health and safety LTIs, all operations 25 0 0 Business conduct Community and human rights Breaches in business conduct policies Health and social programme investments, $000 0 $220 Corporate governance Enhanced Board through two appointments, including the rstwoman Director Developed executive remuneration policy in line with best practice Reviewed policies and commenced their implementation to Shoreline Continue to extend our practices to our operations in Nigeria OUTLOOK Review the impact of mandatory reporting on greenhouse gas ""GHG"" 2013 emissions All dollars are US dollars unless otherwise stated."
Kurdistan Tanzania Russia Mali Malta Pakistan Libya HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 02 THE CSR COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ENGAGING WITH COMMUNITIES PAUL ATHERTON CHAIRMAN, CSR COMMITTEE Our business in new territories brings new challenges which we are This has been an exciting year confident of meeting through the application of our existing approach and policies.
We are aware ofthe importance of effective engagement forHeritage as the Company has with all stakeholders, therefore it isembedded within our business undergone a transformational model.
We aim to operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards within the industry andbelieve it rebalancing of the portfolio.
We have is important to maintain a positive inuence in areas where we entered two new regions: Nigeria conduct our business.
We are continuing to extendour philosophy and practices to Shorelines operations in Nigeria.
"andmore recently, Papua New Guinea The CSR Committee is tasked with developing, implementing and and have exited the Kurdistan Region of overseeing our CSR strategy systems and performance and ensuring Iraq ""Kurdistan"" and Mali."
For these are in line with our overall business aims and objectives.
During 2013 Mark Erwin was appointed to the Board and given his exploration we are increasingly forced international experience also appointed to the CSR Committee.
The Terms of Reference for this Committee can be found on our website to consider frontier areas in order to www.
continue Heritages phenomenal track Our CSR policy framework, on pages 6 to 7, supports our business record of success.
model and sets out the essential core values that make Heritage a good corporate citizen.
We measureourselves against deliberatelyhigh standards and recognise the importance of being a partner of choice.
We identify specic responsibilities in each of the six core areas of potential impact and opportunity, specic to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to these CSR values isviewed as one of the key factors in securing the long-term operational success of the Company.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 03 I am pleased to report that during 2012 wecontinuedto havean We acknowledge that being listed on the London Stock Exchange excellent health and safety record with no LTIs or fatalities.
During will require disclosing greenhouse gas emissions GHG as part of the year, community projects were implemented in our main areas of our Directors report from reporting periods beginning 1 October operation and there were no environmental incidents.
With our primary activities to date being in exploration we over the year were focused on health, education and social have not produced material amounts of GHG emissions and investments across ouroperating regions.
Furthermore, we continue consequentially have not reported this information.
However, with to operate with high standards of both business conduct and the acquisition of OML 30 we are formulating processes tosecure the corporate governance.
We have expanded our Board through the relevantinformation and will look to adopt IPIECAs petroleum appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors: Carmen industry guidelines for reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
The Rodriguez and Mark Erwin.
We have reviewed and amended our Company continued with its participation in the Carbon Disclosure Executive remuneration and increased our corporate governance Project in 2012. disclosure as can be seen in Appendix 2 of the separate Corporate Governance Report.
In Nigeria, conclusionsfrom recent consultations with communities within the OML 30licence have allowed Heritage and its partners to In 2012we acquired an interest in OML 30, Nigeria, through gain anunderstanding ofthe fundamental issues of concern arising Shoreline, and we have begun to implement our CSR polices in this fromactivities in the area.
This will enable Heritage toengage joint venture.
A natural part of a new project involves consultation accordingly in the interest of the impacted communities as well as with local communities and this has begun within OML 30 where helping to restore and build an environment that is consistent such there are over 90communities within the licence area.
Shoreline is an that all can benefit.
This will be done by: indigenous company which we believe will help to incentivise local support.
ensuringregular and transparent dialoguewith all communities: ensuring that there is no discrimination with regards to This is our fifth CSR Report and it has been prepared based on our employment and that, wherever possible, priority will be given to operating principles and with the help of stakeholder feedback.
In members of the local communities: this report you will nd an overview of key areas of impact and increasing resources towards pipeline and asset security: and opportunity, specic to the CSR aspects of our activities: ensuring that any CSR related initiatives are offered equally to all affected communities.
environment and sustainability oil and gas operations have the potential to damage the environment but, if managed well, any In 2012, as in previous years, we set ourselves targets across these activity impacts can be minimised: areas and I am pleased to report we achieved all.
Our targets for this health and safety health and safety is a priority and a key year are set out on page9 of this CSR Report.
element of all our activities: employees our ability to create sustainable shareholder value is We continue to welcome feedback from, and dialogue with, linked to our ability to recruit, motivate and retain high calibre interested parties concerning all aspects of this report.
Contact staff: details are noted at the back of this report and can also be found on community and human rights we ensure that relationships with our website www.
our neighbours and local communities are conducted sensitively and with mutual respect: I would like to thank our Directors, employees and contractors for business conduct we uphold the highest standards of business the continued excellent performance of our Company in all aspects of conduct across all our operations: and our CSRapproach and for their continued commitment and corporate governance we are committed to protecting the dedication to respecting our vision and legacy in the many areas in interests of all stakeholders through compliance with relevant which we operate.
legal and regulatory environments and through the effective management of risk.
PAUL ATHERTON CHAIRMAN, CSR COMMITTEE
