Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 04 Hunting at a Glance Huntings three main manufacturing divisions Casing & Connection cover the entire wellbore, from surface Technologies equipment to fracturing, from the beginning of the wells life cycle to the end, with its Well Construction, Well Completion and Well Intervention business units.
Meeting market demand Our Clients The Groups Premium Connection Hunting Equipment Management We work with the international and business manufactures a range of Services HEMS provides downhole national oil companies in all the major connections including the Groups in rental tools and equipment into the producing regions of the world as well house designed SEAL-LOCK and European market and is pursuing as with all the major energy service WEDGE-LOCK.
These proprietary additional market opportunities in the companies and independent operators premium connections and associated Middle East North Africa region.
in the principal producing regions.
technologies are well suited to challenging offshore environments and onshore Huntings Oil Country Tubular Goods Well Construction shale plays.
OCTG business includes casing We provide products and services related products and management services.
to the initial drilling and construction Huntings Drilling Tools business The Group has key relationships with phase of the wellbore.
This division provides mud motors, shock tools, steel manufacturers to facilitate just-inincludes Huntings new Advanced non-magnetic drill collars and other time logistics and inventory.
Hunting has Manufacturing Group comprised of technologies that assist in the efficient the technology, resources, established Hunting Innova, Hunting Dearborn drilling of oil and gas wells.
Demand mill relationships and experience to and Hunting Doffing.
The division also for these products is being driven by supply all tubular needs on time, includes casing connection technologies shale drilling activities in North America anywhere in the world.
with premium proprietary threads: and through international sales in annular pressure release systems: MWD the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
LWD components: roller reamer, non-magnetic drill collars: vibration dampening units and mud motors.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 05 Well Completion Premium tubing is supplied into the Organic growth and acquisition has This division is a global manufacturer energy industry for both conventional and allowed for the integration of our of accessories, premium tubing, unconventional extraction from the shale extensive range of pressure control connections and OCTG-related products plays of North America to the established equipment technologies and wireline and services that are manufactured at 41 offshore arenas and emerging regions, and slickline products coupled with the centres around the world for the including East Africa and the Middle East.
completion phase of the wellbore.
The division provides products, proprietary Huntings Well Completion division also The Group is widely regarded within technologies, engineering expertise includes a thread protection group that the oil and gas industry as one of and services below the wellhead.
The provides protection solutions including the leading providers of Thru-Tubing acquisition of Hunting Titan puts the SealLube thread compound, Preserveservices for downhole solutions for Group into the design, manufacture A-Thread corrosion protection and the coiled tubing business.
Thru-Tubing and distribution of perforating systems, CLEAR-RUN an environmentally safe technology aligns with the suite of energetics, associated tools and MWD advanced tubular solution for use in zero well intervention tools that are now LWD wireline logging equipment.
packaged and deployed to operating also provides a network of distribution customers throughout the world.
centres to satisfy the short order Well Intervention demand that characterise onshore This division manufactures equipment The Subsea technologies capability field operations.
for the maintenance and restoration includes chemical injection systems, of producing wells to ensure the hydraulic valves and couplings.
optimum flow of oil or gas throughout the well life cycle.
OEM Perforating MWD LWD Tools & Logging Equipment Mud Motors
