50 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Social Social Performance Summary 2012 2011 Average number of employees 9,914 9,388 1 Total employee turnover % 11.7 8.5 1 Voluntary employee turnover % 6.4 5.6 2 Employee gender female % 22 22 Gender of new recruits female % 25 23 Trade union representation % 35 38 Training days per employee 3.1 2.6 3 Training spend per employee 335 390 Internal promotions % of all recruitment in year 35 33 Attendance days lost per employee 5.0 5.2 Charitable donations thousands 645 517 1 Employee turnover is calculated by reference to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
The analysis does not include agency workers not directly employed by Johnson Matthey.
3 Training spend does not include the cost of in house training or the cost of employees wages during training.
In Johnson Matthey there is a strong tradition of looking after our employees, of good community relations and of interaction with and responsiveness towards our stakeholders.
We recognise that in order to operate in a socially sustainable manner, our actions and our policies must be focused on the long term benefits to employees, suppliers, customers, communities and other stakeholders.
Read more on our social policies in the Governance section on pages 79 to 81.
Visit our website for full details of our social activities and policies at www.
We aim to provide meaningful and Developments in 2011 12 Stakeholder Engagement transparent communications to meet the We have continued to see evidence this Johnson Matthey has a wide range of needs of all stakeholder groups and deliver year of the increasing importance of stakeholders with an interest in hearing information to them in the most appropriate governance matters in our supply chains from or working with the company at both format.
These formats may include annual and have completed a number of a corporate and business level.
Our performance reports, participation in questionnaires received from our stakeholders include any person or performance indices Carbon Disclosure customers and suppliers regarding our organisation that may interact with, or Project, FTSE4Good, for example or one environmental, social and ethical practices.
have an interest in, Johnson Matthey and to one discussions on specific topics.
In We remain actively involved with the include customers, employees and their March 2012 the company launched its key trade associations and industry representatives, suppliers, fund managers, new corporate website.
The site has been organisations that are connected with our shareholders, communities, governments, developed to provide more in depth business activities as an effective way of non-governmental organisations NGOs information for all stakeholder groups with understanding, shaping, participating and and national and international trade enhanced navigation to enable users to contributing to a range of discussion areas associations.
The company is also find the information they need more relevant to the companys stakeholders, engaged with national and local quickly.
We communicate with our and those of the broader industry and government to inform the development stakeholders throughout the year and market sectors in which we operate.
of policy in areas where our technology engagement is integrated into our business Our involvement and discussions and products can play a pivotal role.
This 360 degree may cover areas such as climate change, Johnson Matthey meets regularly with its dialogue is essential in providing all parties emerging regulation, legislation, health and major shareholders, as described in the with a rounded view of all material issues safety, standards and guidance.
Emerging Corporate Governance Report on pages and helps all to shape their actions and issues that may have a material impact on 98 and 99, to discuss the performance strategies to move forward on these our industry sectors are also carefully and development of the groups businesses, matters.
For further details on our considered.
Examples of our involvement including matters relating to sustainability stakeholder engagement activities, including are illustrated in the following case studies.
a stakeholder map, visit the companys website at www.
