04 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our business at a glance Our aim is to deliver inspiring customer experiences, through clear market focus, supported by exceptional people, working with world-class partnerships KC segment Delivering high-quality customer experiences iscentral to all that wedo.
During the year we have secured key contract wins and extensions, achieved further public sector success and grown our market share.
Our customers include: Our KC brand provides a range of communications services to businesses and consumersthroughout Asda Arqiva Hull and East Yorkshire.
These include phone and broadband services as well as business solutions.
Morrisons Dorset PSN Sinceitsformation over 100 years ago, KC has delivered many industry firsts, leading themarket WorldPay The Health Lottery through its commitment to innovation, exceptional service and best value.
The launch of bundled services for consumers andbusinesses has delivered even better value for money for KC customers, increasing uptake and average revenue per customer as a result.
During the year, we launched our KC Lightstream fibre service, giving our consumers and business customers access to the fastest broadband in theUK.
co. uk See pages 10 to 11 for more information.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 05 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 KCOM Group has been committed to helping me develop my management skills and commercial knowledge.
Ive gained the skills and confidence to tackle some very largescale projects in new and innovative ways.
There are plenty more new opportunities to go at and Im confident that theGroup will be there to support me.
Paul KC KC segment Kcom segment Our Eclipse brand is award winning, driven by our Our Kcom brand delivers a range of critical Our Smart421 brand delivers high-end consultancy, focus on meeting customer needs in a way that communications services to customers integration and management of business critical surpasses the rest of the market.
Through Eclipse, throughout the UK and we are increasing our systems for customers, providing IT services for wedeliver a range of internet-based services to presence in our chosen markets.
During the year, complex business critical projects.
smalland medium sized businesses across the UK.
we have strengthened significantly our Public Customers benefit from our agile business approach Services Network market position with further and ability to solve business problems for companies A natural innovator with service at the heart of its major contracts.
more reliably and cost effectively than many of the product portfolio, Eclipse is recognised across the The expertise of our people combined with our bigger IT services brands.
industry by organisations and consumer groups alike, strategic relationship with BT provides ourKcom so much so that it is a Which?
recommended Smart421 serves primarily large UK enterprises, as customers with access to an extensive portfolio of broadband provider.
well as some public sector organisations, delivering products and the largest, most advanced network Visit: www.
uk thought leadership and added value solutions to inthe UK.
Our commitment to delivering world-class their complex IT requirements.
customer service is demonstrated through the See page 15 for more information.
com selection of Kcom by leading organisations to providemanaged services to leading organisations See page 14 for more information.
com See pages 12 to 13 for more information.
We are working towards becoming a marketleading communications and IT providerby ensuring that the customer experience we deliver is a positive one, offeringthe highest levels of service.
Kelly Louise Kcom We currently employover 1,800 people group-wide Our principal offices Brighton Ipswich Exeter London Hemel Hempstead Reading Hull Wakefield
