Overview 4 Our year at a glance Q1 July September 2011 Q2 October December 2011 Kier recognised at Green Kier wins 42m Apple Awards 2011 Arthouse contract The Company was presented Kings Cross Central Limited with a Gold Award for its use of Partnership and Kier Group cross-laminated timber at the plc announced the agreement completed Open Academy in of the contract to construct Norwich currently the largest the 42m Arthouse at building within the UK to use this the 67-acre Kings Cross sustainable method.
The builder development in London.
The was praised by the judges for the commended for demonstrating scheme comprises 143 high Kier JV won 200m Crossrail environmental thinking adopted a signi cant commitment to and quality one, two, three and contract throughout both the design and expertise in cutting edge, ecofour-bed residential units A three-way joint venture construction of the project, and friendly methods of construction.
including 29 Registered comprising Kier, BAM and Social Landlord units over Ferrovial was awarded a 200m eight oors.
The building also Kier simplies its structure to present a clearer and contract on the Crossrail scheme includes commercial units at more logical structure of its to three divisions for major works at Farringdon street level and 37 basement disciplines.
They are now known On 12 September 2011, Station.
as Kier Construction, Kier the divisions of Kier Group was key to the delivery of the Services and Kier Property.
were renamed and realigned Crossrail programme, being where from four into three in order Pure Recycling facility the western and eastern running Kier Groups very own materials tunnel contracts terminate recycling facility MRF opened at and where four tunnel boring Ettington in Warwickshire.
be f OkZfzQSq8 machines are to be retrieved.
Kier appoints Amanda Mellor to the Group Board Scape National Minor In December, the Board of Works framework directors announced the Kier was named as sole appointment of Amanda Mellor contractor to deliver a range of as a non-executive director construction projects throughout of the Company.
Amanda is Thamesview School the UK on behalf of Scape.
The a member of the Companys The building of Thamesview Scape National Minor Works Risk Management and Audit, School in Gravesend, a framework runs for four years Remuneration and Nomination joint venture between Kier and is valued between 750m Committees and is considered Constructions London and and 1bn.
Projects include by the Board of directors of the eastern regions and part refurbishment and new build Company to be independent.
of the Kent BSF Project, works on every public sector was completed.
building type including schools, Kier sells PFI investments town halls, leisure and community Kier completed the sale buildings, and police and re of its 50% interests in two stations.
The framework can be PFI projects.
Kier sold its accessed by any public body.
investments in the West Berkshire Hospital project for What can we do for you?
Follow us on Twitter a consideration of 5.0m, Staff from across the globe Kier has donated 8,500 energy describe the many services offered and in December 2011 Kier saving light bulbs to promote by Kier thanks to the skills and transferred its investment in the capabilities of our people energy ef ciency among North http: youtu.
be Rwshpu0X Zw Hinchingbrooke Hospital project Tynesides residents.
@kiergroup to the Kier Group Pension Working with Kier Scheme for a consideration Video about the work carried out of 3.1m.
The aggregate by Kier to extend and refurbish Barking Hospital for NHS Barking consideration for the disposals & Dagenham gives rise to a pro t of 6.7m.
be aJKvd0t2WNU Overview Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Q3 January March 2012 Q4 April June 2012 CR Index 2012 Barnardos support Kier achieved Gold status in Business in Kier Group chief executive Paul the Communitys BITC 2012 Corporate Shef eld presenting a cheque Responsibility Index CRI, the UKs for 25,000 to Barnardos leading voluntary benchmark of corporate senior relationship manager responsibility.
Kate Mitchell and Indigos childrens service manager Jo Chaney.
Kier consortium to deliver Follow us on Twitter Kier JV in 100m contract at Point C nuclear power station 11 new re stations for Our thanks to @CDProject in Somerset.
The work includes Hinkley Point C Nuclear for placing Kier in the Carbon Staffordshire excavation, earthworks, terracing, power station Disclosure Leadership Index for Blue3, a consortium the installation of construction A Kier joint venture has now the second consecutive year.
comprising Kier and site infrastructure and formation signed contracts with EDF Energy @kiergroup Calderpeel Carden Croft, of roads and networks to allow to carry out 100m of site has been named preferred main construction to start.
preparation works for the Hinkley bidder to design, rebuild and maintain 11 re stations, for a combined 50m, throughout The Kier Foundation launched Staffordshire on behalf of the In February Kier sites and Contractor of the year 2012 Staffordshire Fire and Rescue of ces were asked by The Kier Kier picked up the award for Service.
Kier will commence Foundation to get involved in Contractor of the Year at the the construction in early its Go Green day to mark Construction News Awards 2013 and, once complete, the launch of the Foundation on 10 July.
The judges were will maintain the community and Kier Groups two-year particularly impressed by Kiers re stations over a 25-year corporate partnership with rm commitment to all types of concession period.
During the day, a youth training development and series of balloon releases took its communication and creation place at various Kier sites and of performance culture.
Executive Kier announced preferred of ces using biodegradable director Steve Bowcott centre bidder on 225m services Barnardos balloons.
received the award from contracts Claire Balding.
Kier Services has been announced preferred bidder on three contracts in the services Project Pride Heathcote School sector with a total value of Sixth form pupils at a school in Smartphone Waltham Forest have spent two circa 225m.
It is one of four days working with more than 40 application preferred bidders selected to directors of Kier Services Kier launched an provide repairs and maintenance http: youtu.
be vjPzKj-iePA exclusive smartphone services for housing group Circle, application the Kier in what is estimated to be one Repairs app.
The free of the biggest contracts in the Follow us on Twitter download app enables sector.
Just spoken to Nicky tenants and companies of approximately 200m, the @kiergroup who are donating eligible for Kiers repairs, company has been selected to 800 to us, via their safety Acquisition of Stewart Milne maintenance and carry out planned and cyclical award scheme!
@Youth 86 construction operations facilities management works in the eastern, central and Kier acquired certain services on their home West Midlands regions.
construction operations of or business to report Aberdeen-based Stewart Milne.
repairs directly using Carbon neutral construction The business will operate their smartphone.
We look at how cross-laminated from Aberdeen as part of Kier timber technology provides Kier www.
co. uk repairsapp with a huge opportunity to increase Groups regional network of UK its carbon ef ciency construction businesses, initially http: youtu.
be Q hcFOtDx1E using the name Kier Milne.
