3 Overview Group at a glance Laird has two divisions, Performance Materials and WirelessSystems Performance Materials Revenue Revenue by market segment 1 1.
Transportation 4% What we do Markets The division designs and supplies a full range of Our Performance Materials products are supplied to electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials, a broad range of markets including IT and telecom, thermal management solutions and signal integrity handsets, medical and automotive.
products SIP, providing critical protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively.
These products isolate and protect sensitive electronic components and systems from the electronic emissions and stop them from interacting with other components, and lter and remove electromagnetic noise and improve a devices performance through the efficient management of heat.
Our products explained EMI Thermal Management Signal Integrity Electronic devices give off electromagnetic Electronic applications generate heat that Our ferrite-based product family preserves emissions as a by-product of electrical or can adversely affect a devices performance.
high quality signal integrity by removing magnetic activity that can interfere with the Our thermal management materials and and ltering unwanted or harmful operation of other devices.
EMI shielding active cooling solutions provide a way to electromagnetic noise generated by products isolate sensitive apparatus from manage and actively control heat in a variety active components such as oscillators and these electromagnetic elds.
microprocessors, as well as EMI escaping from any electronic product through DC direct current power lines.
6 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 5 2 4 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information 2 Wireless Systems Revenue Revenue by market segment 1 1.
Other 4% What we do Markets Laird designs, manufactures and supplies a broad Our Wireless Systems products are supplied to a wide range of products, systems, and software solutions that range of customers requiring reliable connectivity enable wireless communication such as antennae, solutions in the automotive, rail, eet management, embedded wireless modules, telematics products, M2M industrial, telecom, WLAN, public safety, medical and devices, wireless automation and control systems, along mining markets.
with software solutions to support asset management systems across a broad range of markets.
Our products explained Telematics M2M Wireless Automation and Control Infrastructure Antennae We design and manufacture industryThe high-reliability wireless remote control We provide high performance indoor and leading smart antennae solutions, combining systems that we design and supply, serve outdoor antennae solutions.
In-building advanced, low-prole antennae with wireless the railroad, mining, and industrial markets wireless antennae are particularly applicable radios, I O circuitry and rmware to enable globally.
These remote control systems are in environments where aesthetics and applications from asset tracking to pay-asspecically designed for any equipment wideangle coverage are necessary for you-drive insurance, from eet management where the operator can remotely operate the successful wireless deployment.
We also provide small size allows them to be hidden almost fully hosted networked applications software anywhere, providing an invisible solution that enables customers to monitor their formost applications.
remote controlled assets in real-time.
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC 4 3
