Strategic Report Business Review Business Review 7KH UVW SKKDVH LLQQ $$VWWUUDD HQQHHFFDV VWWUUDDWWHHJJ IIRRFFXVHG RRQQ Organisation Our science is led by our two biotech VWUHQJWKHQLQJ DQG DFFHOHUDWLQJ RXU SURRGGXFWW SSLSHOLLQQHH units which conduct innovative discovery 1RZ LQWR WKH VHFRQG SKDVH RXU IRFXV LV RQQ GULYLQJ research and early-stage development from initial target selection to Phase II trial RXU URZWK 3ODWIRUPV DQG ODXQFKLQJ QHZ SURGXFWVV completion.
The Innovative Medicines and 7KLV HRUW LV GULYHQ E D EXVLQQHHVVVV WKDW LV RUJDQLVHGG Early Development IMED Biotech Unit focuses on scientific advances in small WR GHOLYHU RXU VWUDWHJLF SULRULWLHVV LLQQ DD VXVWDLQDEOH ZD molecules, nucleotides and other emerging technologies and drug discovery platforms, while MedImmune is responsible for global biologics R&D.
Both units are responsible for delivering projects to our Global Overview Medicines Development GMD unit for late-stage development.
Focused investment in accelerating late-stage programmes to ensure new treatments get to patients safely and as quickly as possible We have three strategic R&D centres: 3ODQV IRU DFKLHYLQJ VFLHQWLF OHDGHUVKLS LQFOXGH UHVHDUFKLQJ QHZ Gaithersburg, Maryland US: Gothenburg, PRGDOLWLHV VHHNLQJ RXW GLHUHQW NLQGV RI FROODERUDWLRQ DQG SURPRWLQJ Sweden: and Cambridge, UK.
For more personalised healthcare information on our move to Cambridge, Six Growth Platforms represented 63% of revenues in 2016, up 4% announced in 2013, see page 7. at actual exchange rates 5% at CER over 2015 In April, announced further focus on our main therapy areas to drive Our Global Product and Portfolio Strategy greater productivity across the organisation, sharpen the prioritisation group GPPS leads our therapy area of investments, increase partnering and streamline our operations activities.
GPPS also serves as the bridge Began to refresh our sustainability programme and embed it into our between our R&D and Commercial business practices, with focus on three areas: ethics and transparency: functions and works to provide strategic b broa oad fide ening g ac acc ce es ss s to to hea ealtthca care: e:a and fide env viro onme enta tal p prote otec cttion o direction from early-stage research to Committed to delivering value in pricing our medicines with policy based commercialisation.
GPPS also works on four principles closely with healthcare providers, Continued to promote a safe and healthy work environment, coupled regulatory authorities and those who pay with our commitment to working only with those who share our for our medicines, seeking to ensure those ethical standards medicines help to full unmet medical need and provide economic as well as therapeutic benets.
We group our Commercial functions into Regions: North America US and Canada : Europe: International East China, Hong Kong, Asia Area, Australia & New Zealand : and International West Russia & Eurasia, Throughout this Annual Report this symbol Middle East & Africa, Latin America and LGHQWLHV VXVWDLQDELOLW FRQWHQW Brazil.
Japan is categorised separately and is one of our Growth Platforms.
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Our Operations function plays a key align costs to our changing business that broadens access to our medicines, role in the development, manufacturing, shape and to streamline our operations minimises the environmental footprint of testing and delivery of our medicines at a global, regional and country level: our products and processes, and ensures to our customers.
reshaping manufacturing as we build that ethics and transparency underpin our biologics capacity: to drive everything we do.
Our commitment to Restructuring simplication: and to implement growing our business in a sustainable way Since 2007, we have made significant efforts small footprint changes.
also helps us protect our licence to operate, to restructure and reshape our business attract and retain talent, manage risk and, to improve long-term competitiveness.
Full Restructuring charges of $1,107 million most importantly, deliver life-changing details are provided in the Financial Review were incurred in the year and we remain medicines to patients.
The SET and Board from page 62.
We have created a leaner on track to realise the benets and incur regularly review our sustainability work as and simpler organisation, focused on driving the costs we announced.
part of their risk management and business distinctive science in our main therapy review activities.
To advance our strategy, in April Sustainability 2016, we announced plans to: We want to be valued and trusted by our Refreshed sustainability strategy stakeholders as a source of great medicines In 2016, we embarked on a process to sharpen prioritisation of investments over the long term.
That is why we are refresh and focus our sustainability and focus in our main therapy areas, committed to operating in a way that programme and further embed it into our particularly Oncology recognises the interconnection between business practices and strategic priorities.
increase partnering in relation to projects business growth, the needs of society and We worked with an independent think-tank in our inammation, infection and the limitations of our planet.
This means to complete a sustainability materiality neuroscience disease areas, and to delivering our business strategy in a way assessment to help identify priorities.
products in markets where there is a clear rationale Sustainability framework A sustainability framework is embedded in the way we operate: Board Non-Executive Director, Genevive Berger, oversees implementation of the sustainability framework and reporting to the Board.
SET SET is responsible for the framework.
Senior managers throughout the Group are accountable for operating Sustainability Stakeholders in line with the sustainability commitments within their areas, taking Advisory Board into account national, functional, and site issues and priorities.
Regular engagement Line managers are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand with external Established in 2015 the requirements and improvement targets, and that people are clear about stakeholders, which and meets twice annually what is expected of them as they work to achieve our business goals.
takes place with a range to provide external of socially responsible insight, feedback and Sustainability Council investors and other advice to help sharpen The Council is chaired by a SET member, currently Katarina Ageborg.
interest groups, provides our understanding of, Members comprise senior leaders from each relevant SET function.
Its the opportunity for and responses to, agenda focuses on driving long-term value creation by, among other things: sustainable issues or established and concerns to be raised emerging sustainability agreeing sustainability priorities for the Group in line with strategic and discussed.
The Advisory business objectives Board also helps identify managing and monitoring the annual process of setting sustainability opportunities for further objectives and targets, as well as reviewing performance against KPIs innovation and collaboration.
agreeing appropriate policy positions to support our objectives and reputation management.
Sustainability Working Group A network of SET function representatives and subject matter experts supports the Council.
The network reviews issues with the potential to impact AstraZenecas sustainability agenda and helps deliver the substantive elements of our programme.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 43 Strategic Report Business Review Business Review continued The assessment process identied 1.
Applying sound bioethics to all our work 27 sustainability issues relevant to us.
Through collaboration and innovation we and maintaining a strong focus on patient These became the basis for benchmarking strive to expand access to our medicines by: safety see pages 47 and 48. analysis, engagement with external and internal stakeholders, and an internal Exploring innovative ways of increasing 3.
review that examined our areas of access to healthcare for more people, We follow the science to protect the strength, weakness and opportunity, tailored to meet differing patient needs planet by: and our alignment with the UN and circumstances see page 51 and Sustainable Development Goals.
Healthy Heart Africa on page 49.
Managing our impact on the environment, Making a positive contribution to our local across all our activities, with a particular Through this process, we have identied communities around the world, through focus on carbon emissions, waste and three priority areas that, given their community support programmes water use.
alignment with our Purpose and business consistent with improving health and Minimising the environmental impact of strategy, will allow us to have the most promoting science see page 53. our products see pages 60 and 61. impact in benefiting our patients, our Company, broader society and the planet.
Our focus on these three areas does not We remain committed to managing and We will maintain integrity in everything diminish our commitment to other areas building our performance in the other we do by: of our sustainability agenda.
For example: areas within the scope of AstraZenecas sustainability programmes, such as human Working to consistent global standards of Ensuring that diversity in its broadest rights, diversity, and workplace health and ethical sales and marketing practices in all sense is reected in our leadership and safety.
We will continue to work across our our markets see page 52. people strategies see page 55. business to integrate these commitments Working only with suppliers who have Continuing to develop and embed into the way we work, engage with standards consistent with our own as we a consistent approach to human stakeholders and evaluate our performance.
increase our outsourcing to drive rights across our worldwide activities The three priority areas are as follows.
business efficiency see page 52. see page 56.
Working on continued transparency with Promoting the safety, health and our data in clinical trials, enhancing the wellbeing of all our people worldwide understanding of how our medicines see page 53. work and benefit patients see page 47.
Benchmarking and assurance Our work in sustainability has been recognised by a number of organisations in 2016: DJSI CDP Access to Medicine Index Bureau Veritas has provided Second in Pharmaceuticals, Climate A List Among the top 9% Biggest riser in the Index since the independent external assurance to a limited level on the sustainability Biotechnology and Life Sciences of companies participating in CDPs last survey, moving to 7th place in information contained within this industry group.
climate change programme in 2016 from 15th in 2014.
recognition of our actions to reduce Sector best scores attained for: Recognition for industry best emissions and mitigate climate Occupational Health and Safety, practice in a number of areas, change.
Code of Conduct, Marketing including transparent approach to Practices, Climate Strategy and Water A List Among the leading intellectual property in relation to Health Outcomes Contribution.
25 companies for our commitment to Index Countries: disclosing where transparency around environmental we will not enforce patents, where risks and demonstration of pursuing we would consider granting a best practice.
licence, and disclosing the status of our patents for products used Supplier Climate A List Among For more information to treat Index Diseases.
the 3% of companies awarded an on Bureau Veritas work and $ JUDGH IRU RXU HRUWV DQG DFWLRQV benchmarking, please see to combat climate change by Sustainability: supplementary implementing programmes to information on page 231 and the reduce emissions in both direct Sustainability pages on our operations and supply chain.
ZHEVLWH ZZZ DVWUD]HQHFD FRP 44 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Safety, Health and Environment strategy cardiac regeneration.
We also extended Throughout 2016, we worked to embed $FKLHYH VFLHQWLF our partnership with Moderna to include our 2016 to 2025 Safety, Health and immuno-oncology programmes, combining leadership Environment SHE strategy and deliver the MedImmunes protein engineering and targets we have set ourselves as regards: cancer biology expertise with Modernas We are using our distinctive technology.
eliminating workplace accidents and VFLHQWLF FDSDELOLWLHV LQ VPDOO illnesses see page 53 See Oncology from page 25 for more molecules and biologics, including information protecting natural resources see pages immunotherapies and protein 60 and 61 engineering, as well as investing in ensuring the environmental safety of our Working collaboratively and fostering key programmes and focused products see page 61. open innovation business development, to deliver Our biotech-style operating model gives life-changing medicines.
We have made good progress to date, us access to the best science, both internal attaining independent verication that our and external, and we are open to exploring climate change targets are science-based, Overview new and different kinds of collaborations.
setting out our RE100 strategy to source Launched six diagnostic tests linked to Our partnership models include in-licensing 100% renewable power globally, and our products in line with our personalised of new chemical modalities and platforms, disclosing our climate information in public healthcare PHC strategy disease understanding, technology reports.
We have also made a commitment Delivered clinical trial data and advances, uncovering novel target to responsible water stewardship as part submissions that resulted in 11 approvals opportunities, and clinical partnerships.
of The Business Alliance for Water and for brand new medicines in the US, EU, For example, two key pieces of scientific Climate partnership.
We are working closely China or Japan research were published in high-impact with our operating sites to agree on specic 6LPSOLHG SURJUDPPHV SURFHVVHV DQG journals by scientists at our joint centre for contributions to our 2025 strategy targets.
systems, and prioritised resources cardiometabolic diseases at the Karolinska More information on our performance in towards late-stage drug development Institutet.
We also identify collaborations 2016 can be found in Safety, health and Published 75 manuscripts in high-impact that allow us to out-license our technology wellbeing on page 53 and Environment publications compared to seven in 2010 platforms.
For instance, we have expanded from page 60.
Continued to strengthen early-stage the utilisation of our ADC technology portfolio with new drug modalities, platform through an agreement with We are proud of the external recognition DOORZLQJ XV WR H[SDQG LQWR QRYHO VFLHQWLF Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. giving them we are receiving for our work.
As shown to areas while maintaining a clear focus on access to MedImmunes ADC technology.
the left, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index disease mechanisms DJSI has scored our climate change Strive to access the best science, both In 2016, IMED continued to pioneer new strategy and occupational health and safety internal and external, in our biotech units, approaches to open innovation, enabling performance as best in our industry.
Our and we are open to exploring new and our scientists more freely to share their ideas submissions to investor benchmarking GLHUHQW NLQGV RI FROODERUDWLRQV and collaborate on projects with external organisation, CDP achieved an A-list Committed to working responsibly and in scientists.
The IMED Open Innovation portal ranking for both climate change and water accordance with our global bioethics policy allows external researchers to access the stewardship.
During 2016, we committed full range of open innovation programmes.
approximately $25 million to natural By the end of 2016, our teams had reviewed resource projects at our sites.
These Early science more than 500 proposals for new drug projects are expected to accelerate our We continued to strengthen our early-stage projects.
Of these, 26 have progressed resource efficiency performance and portfolio with new drug modalities such as as far as clinical trials, while more than 150 include: solvent recovery to reduce modied RNA, anti-micro RNA, antisense are at pre-clinical trial stage.
hazardous waste: a novel heat pump oligonucleotides, bi-specic monoclonal system to reduce reliance on natural gas: antibodies MAbs and antibody-drug During 2016, MedImmune continued and a number of resource efficiency minor conjugates ADC.
This is allowing us to to forge collaborations, including works programmes.
Site water stress expand into novel scientific areas while a research collaboration with the assessments and natural resource audits maintaining a clear focus on disease University of California, San Francisco continue to identify further opportunities for mechanisms.
In 2016, in partnership US, with an emphasis on basic research management and investment.
We continue with Regulus Therapeutics Inc. we saw and translational sciences.
We also to hold third party suppliers accountable AZD4076, an anti-micro RNA targeting announced an innovative programme for protecting the environment across our the miR103 107 gene, being dosed into with Johns Hopkins University, providing supply chains and we are active members patients.
These patients had non-alcoholic a first-of-its-kind industry-academic PhD of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative steatohepatitis or silent-liver disease, for programme in the US.
Furthermore, in to promote a collaborative approach across which there are no approved medicines.
late 2016, MedImmune and a consortium our industry.
Also in 2016, in partnership with Moderna, of UK universities Cambridge, Leeds, we led the clinical trials application for Manchester and Shefeld announced AZD8601, a modied RNA for VEGF-A for that they will be afforded a Collaborative AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 45 Strategic Report Business Review Business Review continued linked to molecular mechanisms of disease across our main therapy areas.
The initiative includes new collaborations with Human Longevity, Inc.
US, the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK, and The Institute for Molecular Medicine, Finland.
We are also establishing an in-house Centre for Genomics Research led by Professor David Goldstein, a leader in genomics.
This Centre aims to apply genomic insight across our entire R&D pipeline by developing a bespoke database comprising genome sequences from samples donated by patients in clinical trials together with Invest stin in in ng g for the fu utu ture: associated clinical and drug response data.
Listening to patie ents Late-stage development GMD designs and delivers clinical trials Since 2015, we have introduced over Training Partnership CTP, structured and makes regulatory submissions to 60,000 patients from the PatientsLikeMe as 12 PhD studentships, from the seek approval for new drugs and line network to our research teams to inform Biotechnology and Biological Sciences extensions.
During 2016, we delivered our R&D programmes.
After simulating Research Council BBSRC.
These CTP clinical trial data and submissions that a clinical study visit with lupus patients, studentships are designed to invest in the resulted in 11 approvals for brand new their feedback resulted in 16 changes training of the next generation of scientists, medicines in the US, EU, China or Japan.
to the way the study was conducted.
providing access to facilities and expertise We also had some setbacks during the unavailable in an academic setting alone.
year, with some disappointing Phase III data That study is now delivering ahead results for example, Brilinta for peripheral of time, demonstrating the value of Our personalised healthcare strategy arterial disease, selumetinib for non-small working with patients to deliver more Personalised healthcare PHC allows us cell lung cancer, and tremelimumab for HFLHQW UHVHDUFK :H EHOLHYH WKDW WKLV to tailor both new and existing treatments mesothelioma see Cardiovascular & will improve our ability to bring more to the needs of individual patients by means Metabolic Disease and Oncology from life-changing medicines, more quickly of diagnostic tests.
It is an integral part of pages 30 and 25 respectively for more to more patients.
our plans to achieve scientific leadership information.
However, this is to be expected and we are committed to bringing PHC to when we are investigating treatments for patients in all main disease areas.
Three diseases that are hard to treat.
of our products Iressa, Lynparza and In order to maintain a focus on our main Tagrisso are coupled with companion therapy areas and enable us to maximise diagnostic tests that select patients based time and resources in accelerating certain on their molecular proles.
In addition, programmes, we identied opportunities 80% of our clinical pipeline is following our to collaborate on developing assets within PHC approach and over 50 planned drug our late-stage pipeline.
For example, we launches by 2023 require a diagnostic test.
made an agreement for the development In 2016, we worked with our partners to of tralokinumab for patients with atopic launch six diagnostic tests linked to our dermatitis allowing us to focus on its products increasing our total number of development for asthma and an agreement 6 diagnostics launched since 2014 to 15. for an accelerated global development Our commitment to bring PHC to patients programme for savolitinib for patients In 2016, launched six diagnostic in all main disease areas has resulted in with papillary renal cell carcinoma.
tests linked to our products.
our first diagnostic test outside oncology: Accelerating the pipeline the Nova Biomedical Pro Uric Acid Test.
In 2016, we presented scientific rationale It is a hand-held serum uric acid point of that resulted in 10 regulatory designations care test, aligned to Zurampic, which can for Priority or Fast Track review for new be used to measure a patients response medicines which offer the potential to to gout treatment.
We are also developing address unmet medical need in certain diagnostic tests with Abbott for treating diseases, and we also worked to secure asthma and with Qiagen for treating lupus.
Orphan Drug status for the development Also in 2016, we announced our integrated of medicines to treat very rare diseases.
genomics initiative which focuses on the For example, in the US, we were granted discovery of new targets and biomarkers Breakthrough Therapy Designation for our 46 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report immunotherapy treatment durvalumab for scientific leadership.
It is also critical for the framework for ensuring a consistent, bladder cancer.
We also received Fast Track recruiting and retaining the best scientists high-quality approach worldwide.
Protecting Designation for Lynparza for 2nd line ovarian from around the world.
Scientists from IMED, participants throughout the trial process is cancer and for MEDI8852 for patients MedImmune and GMD have published 75 a priority and we have strict procedures to hospitalised with Type A strain inuenza.
manuscripts a record number in highhelp ensure participants are not exposed Orphan Drug Designations were granted impact peer-reviewed journals, each with to unnecessary risks.
for acalabrutinib for three haematological an impact factor exceeding 15 Thomson All our clinical studies are designed and indications, for selumetinib for differentiated Reuters 5yr IF score and a score exceeding nally interpreted in-house but some are thyroid cancer, and for MEDI-551 for treating 1,050 in total.
This represents an eleven-fold conducted by CROs on our behalf.
We are also working improvement since our drive to publish in approximately 48% of patients in our small alongside regulatory authorities to drive high-impact journals began in 2010. molecule studies and 44% of patients in our change within the regulatory environment Responsible research biologics studies were monitored by CROs.
by ensuring that the clinical benets of Our commitment to working in a We require these organisations to comply our medicines for patients are clearly transparent and ethical manner is essential with our global standards and we conduct understood.
For example, using Patient to achieving scientific leadership and risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
Reported Outcomes data can help define delivering life-changing medicines.
Our how oncology medicines are used to We believe that transparency enhances global standards of bioethics apply to all our treat patients with cancer.
the understanding of how our medicines research activity, whether conducted by us work and benefit patients.
We publish With 132 drug projects in the pipeline, or third parties on our behalf.
The following information about our clinical research, GMD is prioritising by focusing investment sections summarise our activities in this area as well as the registration and results of to accelerate specic programmes, so for more information, see our website, our clinical trials regardless of whether that new treatments get to patients more www.
html they are favourable for all products and quickly but still safely.
As a result, several Patient safety all phases, including marketed medicines, immuno-oncology clinical trials, including Patient safety is very important and we drugs in development and drugs where some for lung cancer, head and neck strive to minimise the risks and maximise development has been discontinued.
cancer and bladder cancer, completed the benets of our medicines.
Through recruitment in 2016, with read-outs expected In 2016, we implemented new global a pharmacovigilance programme, we in 2017.
Teams have also been quick to standards which give patients and monitor our medicines once they are in the turn positive clinical trial data into regulatory researchers more information about marketplace to learn of any side effects not submissions.
In 2016, we made submissions our research.
Specically: identied during the development process in the US and EU for our first respiratory and provide information concerning the biologic treatment, benralizumab, for severe Every patient who participates in safety prole of our medicines to regulators, asthma and for our lung cancer treatment, a study sponsored by us receives healthcare professionals and, where Tagrisso, in China.
We secured a priority a note recognising their contribution appropriate, patients.
review for Tagrisso following its accelerated as well as a copy of the studys Trial development programme and previous Results Summary.
We have a dedicated patient safety team approvals in the US, EU, Japan and 13 In 2016, we launched a portal https: to help us full our commitment to patient other countries.
Each developing and marketed for external researchers to allow them medicine is allocated a Global Safety We also work in partnership to advance our to request our clinical data and reports Physician and a patient safety scientist.
clinical research from strategic alliances to support additional research.
We have In addition, each market is supported by with contract research organisations responded to over 50 requests so far.
Our CROs for the delivery of clinical trials, to Chief Medical officer is accountable for academic collaborations.
These include For more information, please see our website, the benefit risk proles of our products new partnerships with the Department of ZZZ DVWUD]HQHFD FRP RU RXU FOLQLFDO WULDOV in development and on the market.
He Medical Statistics at the London School of ZHEVLWH ZZZ DVWUD]HQHFDFOLQLFDOWULDOV FRP provides medical oversight and enforces Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and with the risk assessment processes to help us make University of Manchesters Health eResearch Clinical trials by region efficient and informed decisions about Centre.
These partnerships aim to deploy Small patient safety.
statistical techniques in examining clinical Region molecule Biologics and healthcare data to make medicines more Europe 15% 23% Clinical trials and transparency personalised and effective for patients, and US Canada 27% 26% In 2016, we conducted a range of clinical to drive smarter clinical trials.
Asia Pacic 15% 11% trials at many sites as shown in the chart Central Eastern Europe 28% 24% to the right.
This broad span helps ensure 2XU VFLHQWLF UHSXWDWLRQ Japan 2% 5% that study participants reect the diversity Demonstrating the quality of the research Latin America 10% 10% of patients for whom our medicines are conducted in our laboratories, through Middle East and Africa 3% 1% intended and identies the patients for publication in high-quality and high-impact whom the medicine may be most beneficial.
journals, is an essential element in building Our global governance process provides our scientific reputation and achieving AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 47 Strategic Report Business Review Business Review continued Research use of human biological we also highlighted our latest renement Our plans for growth samples techniques and approach to implementing Our Commercial teams, which comprised The use of human biological samples, the 3Rs in a recent blog for the UK National around 34,100 employees at the end of such as solid tissue, biouids and their Council for the 3Rs.
Internally we are 2016, are active in more than 100 countries.
derivatives, plays a vital role in developing working to rene our study designs by In most countries, we sell our medicines a deeper understanding of human diseases improving access to a refreshed training through wholly-owned local marketing and their underlying mechanisms, which programme on the principles of good companies.
We also sell through distributors helps us develop effective, new and statistical practice.
The objective of this and local representative ofces and market personalised medicines.
training is to ensure that scientists are better our products largely to primary care and able to appropriately power their studies, specialty care physicians.
When we conduct this important research, account for variability and control bias we maintain policies and processes to wherever possible.
Even as we continue to be impacted by ensure that we comply with the law and the loss of exclusivity on some of our meet regulatory concerns.
We place an Animal research use varies depending on leading medicines, such as Crestor, emphasis on informed consent that protects numerous factors, including our amount of Nexium and Seroquel, we have witnessed the rights and expectations of donors and pre-clinical research, the complexity of the increasing revenues from our growth families throughout the process of our diseases under investigation and regulatory brands and launches.
This return to growth acquisition, use, storage and disposal of the requirements.
We believe that without our is underpinned by our internal Growth samples.
Protecting the condentiality of a active commitment to reducing, rening, or Platforms which are our growth levers.
donors identity is of the utmost importance, replacing animals in research, our animal As our strategy has progressed, so our and a key part of our process includes the use would be much greater.
In 2016, we Growth Platforms have evolved, as shown coding of biological samples and associated used 193,451 animals in-house 2015: in Strategy and key performance indicators data including genetic data.
In addition, 25,651 animals were from page 16.
Respiratory was joined by used by CROs on our behalf 2015: 33,220.
New Oncology from January 2015 and, In rare circumstances, we may use human from January 2017, New CVMD replaced fetal tissue hFT or human embryonic stem Diabetes and Brilinta Brilique.
In these circumstances, an remaining Growth Platforms, Emerging internal review of the scientific validity of the 2.
Return to growth Markets and Japan, reect the importance research proposal will be conducted and of these markets to growing future revenues.
permission to use the tissue will be granted We seek to return to growth by Overall, our Growth Platforms grew by 4% only when no other scientically reasonable at actual exchange rates 5% at CER in focusing on our Growth Platforms alternative is available.
We also insist our 2016 and now represent 63% of all revenues.
and leveraging our strong global third party vendors adopt the highest ethical commercial presence, particularly standards and we rigorously assess the However, the pharmaceutical market in Emerging Markets, to ensure the ability of tissue suppliers to meet our quality is highly competitive.
For example, our right medicines are available and and ethical expectations.
We are committed Diabetes franchise continues to see pricing that patients have access to them.
to minimising the use of fetal tissue by pressure.
In immuno-oncology, the large exploring technological alternatives.
number of clinical trials that are being Overview carried out highlight the competitive To date, seven research proposals that Ongoing scrutiny of pharmaceutical nature of this area and renders speed include use of cells derived from hFT have pricing in US and Europe to market critical.
been received for consideration, but none Despite biennial price cuts, Japan of these has progressed so far, either for remained an attractive market More information on our performance around the world in 2016 can be found in scientific or other reasons.
We continue Third fastest growing top 10 multinational the Geographical Review from page 226 to review our processes for the supply pharmaceutical company in Emerging of hFT but, at the end of 2016, had yet Markets to approve a single source.
Currently, four Growth rate in China expected to US projects using three different hESC lines moderate due to increased price pressure As the eleventh largest prescriptionhave been approved.
and hospital cost containment based pharmaceutical company in the Pricing policy based on principles of value, US, we have a 3.9% market share of US Animal research VXVWDLQDELOLW DFFHVV DQG H[LELOLW pharmaceuticals by sales value.
We are committed to helping the public Sought to make our medicines more understand our use of animals in research DRUGDEOH IRU VHOI SD SDWLHQWV EDVHG In 2016, sales in the US decreased by and our methods for reducing, rening, or on ability to pay 22% to $7,365 million 2015: $9,474 replacing this use 3R approach.
Expanded Healthy Heart Africa million.
Declines in revenue from Nexium, programme from Kenya to Ethiopia Crestor and Synagis were partially offset We share our transparency goals externally and partnered with The US Presidents by the strong performance of our Growth through presentations at conferences and Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief Platforms, including Farxiga, Bydureon workshops throughout the US and EU, and and Brilinta, the launches of Lynparza and 48 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report Tagrisso, and the impact of completing the acquisition of Actavis rights to Tudorza and Daliresp in the US.
The US healthcare system is complex with multiple payers and intermediaries exerting pressure on patient access to branded medicines through regulatory and voluntary rebates.
Regulatory rebates are statutorily mandated chargebacks and discounts paid on government-funded programmes such as Medicaid, Department of Defense including TRICARE and Department of Veterans Affairs.
Voluntary rebates are paid to managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers for In Inve vest s s in ing g g fo fo for r th the e fu fu utu tu tu ture re re re re e: commercially insured patients, including H Heal allth th th h hy y y y y He H art A Africa Medicare Part D patients.
In the Medicare Part D programme, in addition to voluntary negotiated rebates, branded pharmaceutical Healthy Heart Africa HHA was launched Following the success of HHA in Kenya, manufacturers are statutorily required to pay in Kenya in October 2014 in collaboration we developed a partnership with the 50% of the patients out-of-pocket costs with the Ministry of Health in support of its Federal Ministry of Health in Ethiopia to during the coverage gap portion of their commitment to combat NCDs.
integrate HHA programming into the benefit design.
As part of the ACA, we also Ethiopian healthcare system in support of pay a portion of an overall industry Patient HHA aims to reach 10 million hypertensive the Government National Strategic Action Protection and Affordable Care Act Branded patients across Sub-Saharan Africa by Plan for NCDs.
2025 and, after two years, it has already: In September, we announced a $10 million, In 2016, the overall measurable reduction conducted over two million hypertension YH HDU JOREDO SXEOLF SULYDWH SDUWQHUVKLS in our profit before tax for the year due to screenings in the community and in with The US Presidents Emergency Plan discounts on branded pharmaceuticals and health facilities for AIDS Relief PEPFAR that will expand an industry-wide excise fee was $471 million trained over 3,000 healthcare workers, access to HIV AIDS and hypertension 2015: $786 million: 2014: $714 million.
including doctors, nurses, community VHUYLFHV E RHULQJ WKHP LQ DQ LQWHJUDWHG health volunteers and pharmacists manner at existing PEPFAR-supported In the US, there is significant pricing to provide education and awareness, HIV AIDS sites, beginning in Kenya.
For pressure driven by payer consolidation, screening and treatment services for H[DPSOH ZRUNLQJ DJH PHQ DUH D GLFXOW restrictive reimbursement policies and hypertension across 31 counties population to engage for HIV care, and cost control tools, such as exclusionary activated 403 health facilities to provide HHAs innovative way of working presents formularies and price protection clauses.
hypertension services, including an opportunity for the partnership with Many formularies employ generic first the establishment of secure supply PEPFAR to improve HIV care in this strategies and or require physicians chains for low-cost, high-quality hard-to-reach population.
to obtain prior approval for the use of antihypertensive medicines.
a branded medicine where a generic alternative exists.
These mechanisms can be used by intermediaries to limit the use of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
In 2016, 84.7% of prescriptions dispensed in the US were generic, compared with 84.0% in 2015.
In addition, patients are seeing changes in the design of their health plan benets and may experience variation, 3,000 including increases, in both premiums and out-of-pocket payments for their branded Trained over 3,000 healthcare workers medications.
The patient out-of-pocket as part of Healthy Heart Africa.
spend is generally in the form of a copayment or co-insurance, but there is a growing trend towards high deductible health plans which require patients to pay the full list price until they meet certain AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 49 Strategic Report Business Review Business Review continued out-of-pocket thresholds.
We understand environment, increased government moderated while the sales growth from that our medicines will not benefit patients interventions for example, on price and new products such as Brilinta and the if they are unable to afford them, and that volume and parallel trade across markets Diabetes portfolio has started to pick up.
is why we offer a number of resources also affected sales.
Despite these Brilinta and the Diabetes portfolio grew by and programmes that can help patients conditions, we continue to launch innovative 18% actual and CER and 57% actual afford their medications by reducing their medicines across Europe and saw and CER respectively.
We focus our formulary significant progress within our Growth Established ROW comprises Australia, Canada, access on affordability for patients through Platforms, in particular with Forxiga, Xigduo, New Zealand and Japan.
rebate payments as well as savings cards Brilinta, Lynparza and Tagrisso.
for eligible patients when the out-of-pocket Emerging Markets: expansion costs are not affordable.
Established Rest of World ROW and collaboration In 2016, sales in Japan increased by 8% at Emerging Markets, as dened in Market Ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical actual rate of exchange decreased 3% at denitions on page 239, comprise industry, focused largely on pricing, CER to $2,184 million 2015: $2,020 million, various countries with dynamic, growing is placing increased emphasis on the as a result of the biennial National Health economies.
As outlined in Marketplace from value of medicines.
This scrutiny is likely Insurance NHI price cuts effective from page 11, these countries represent a major to continue from many stakeholders, 1 April 2016.
We experienced price cuts growth opportunity for the pharmaceutical including policymakers and legislators.
of approximately 5% on our 2016 revenue.
industry due to strong demand and sound Proposed policy and legislative changes Despite the NHI price cuts, across our economic fundamentals.
Emerging Markets which are being considered, include Growth Platforms we saw strong volume are not immune, however, to economic different approaches to price controls on growth.
Market volatility is higher than in medicines including price transparency, from Nexium and Crestor, and the Diabetes Established Markets and various political and potential changes to government regulated franchise helped to drive this volume economic challenges exist.
These include programmes such as Medicare Part growth, offsetting generic competition.
B, Medicare Part D, Medicaid or other In addition, in May 2016, we launched provisions under the ACA, and changes Tagrisso in Japan which generated With revenues of $5,794 million, affecting the commercial importation of $82 million of sales and we expect will AstraZeneca was the fifth largest medicines into the US.
continue to be a major driver of growth.
multinational pharmaceutical company, We now hold ninth position in the ranking as measured by prescription sales, and the While widespread adoption of a broad of pharmaceutical companies by sales of third fastest-growing top 10 multinational national price-control scheme in the near medicines in Japan.
Despite the biennial pharmaceutical company in Emerging future is unlikely, we expect the increased government price cuts and increased Markets in 2016. focus on pharmaceutical prices and their intervention from the government to rapidly impact on healthcare costs to continue for increase the volume share of generic In China, AstraZeneca is the second largest the foreseeable future.
products, Japan remains an attractive pharmaceutical company in the hospital market for innovative pharmaceuticals.
sector, as measured by sales.
Sales in For more information on pricing pressure and China in 2016 increased by 4% at actual rate the ACA, please see Marketplace from page 11 Canada has a mixed public private payer of exchange 10% at CER to $2,636 million system for medicines that is funded by the 2015: $2,530 million.
We delivered sales Europe provinces, insurers and individual patients.
growth above the growth rate of the hospital The total European pharmaceutical market It has also now become common for public market sector through strategic brands was worth $201 billion in 2016.
We are payers to negotiate lower non-transparent investment, systematic organisational the twelfth largest prescription-based prices after they have gone through a review capability improvements and long-term pharmaceutical company in Europe see by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and market expansion programmes in core Market denitions on page 239 with a Technology in Health, a health technology therapy areas.
The industry growth rate 2.4% market share of pharmaceutical assessment body.
Most private insurers is expected to be moderated to high sales by value.
pay full price although there is increasing single digits, impacted by increased price pressure to achieve lower pricing.
Overall, pressure and hospital cost containment.
In 2016, our sales in Europe decreased by the split for AstraZenecas portfolio is 65% Nevertheless, the healthcare environment 5% at actual rate of exchange 3% at CER funded by private payers and 35% with in China remains dynamic.
are arising from incremental healthcare Key drivers of the decline, leaving aside investment, strong underlying demand and the impact of divestments, such as the Our sales in Australia and New Zealand the emergence of innovative medicines.
anaesthetics portfolio, were continued declined by 12% at actual rate of exchange competition from Symbicort analogues, 10% at CER in 2016.
This was primarily Growth drivers for Emerging Markets ongoing volume erosion of Pulmicort, due to the continued erosion of Crestor, include our new medicines, notably Brilinta Seroquel XR and Nexium following loss of Atacand and Nexium by generic medicines.
and Forxiga, and our Diabetes, Respiratory, exclusivity, and pricing and volume pressure Sales declined less in 2016 than in 2015 Oncology and CV portfolios.
The continued macroeconomic as the pace of generic erosion has been 50 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report understand their priorities and requirements, and play a leading role in projects to align better the requirements of regulatory and health technology assessment HTA agencies or other organisations that provide value assessment of medicines.
For example, we have a leading role in the European IMI ADAPT-SMART programme for exploring adaptive licensing.
We pursue a exible pricing approach that reects the wide variation in global healthcare systems.
We have developed In In In In In n n n n nve five v five five five v five five e e e est st st st st st st st t t t t tin i in in in i in in i i i g g g g g g g g g g fo fo fo f f fo fo fo o or r r r r r r r r r th th th th th th th th th h he e e e e e e e e fu fu fu fu fu fu fu fu fu fu futu tu tu tu tu tu tu tu tu tu u ure re re re re re re re e: : : : patient access programmes that are 0D 0D 0D 0D 0D 0D 0D 00D 0D 0D 0D  QJ QJ QJ QQQJ QJ QJJJJJJJPPPPPPPHG HG HG HG   HH HHD D D D D DDRURURURURURURRRGD GD GD GD GGGD  H H aligned with the ability to pay of patients LQLQLQLQLLQLQQQQ%%%%%%%%%%%%%UUUUDUDUDUUD]L]L]LLLLLLO OOOOOOOOO and healthcare systems.
We are committed to the appropriate use of managed entry schemes and the %UD]LO KDV ODUJH VRFLR HFRQRPLF physicians about our broad portfolio, we development of real world evidence GLVSDULWLHV DQG GHVSLWH D XQLYHUVDO are selectively investing in sales capabilities and we are investigating innovative KHDOWKFDUH V VWHP WKH PDLQ VRXUFH RI where opportunities from unmet medical approaches to the pricing of medicines, IXQGLQJ IRU PHGLFLQHV UHPDLQV WKH SULYDWH need exist.
We are also expanding our such as payment for outcomes received VHFWRU LQFOXGLQJ LQGLYLGXDOV SD LQJ reach through multi-channel marketing by the patient and healthcare system.
RXW RI SRFNHW 7R LPSURYH DFFHVV WR RXU and external partnerships.
PHGLFLQHV ZH KDYH EHHQ H[SORULQJ KRZ Pricing and access to healthcare ZH FDQ XVH HFRQRPLF GDWD WR OLQN DQ Pricing and delivering value We continue to make our medicines LQGLYLGXDOV DELOLW WR SD ZLWK WKH SULFH RI Our medicines help treat unmet medical affordable to more people on a RXU PHGLFLQHV VXSSRUWLQJ RXU ZRUN ZLWK need, improve health and create economic commercially and socially sustainable OLIHVW OH DQG GLVHDVH DZDUHQHVV DGYLFH benets.
Effective treatments can lower basis.
As, on average, almost half of 7KLV ODWHVW DSSURDFK EXLOGV RQ RXU D] healthcare costs by reducing the need for medicine funding in emerging countries %HP SURJUDPPH ZKLFK KDV KHOSHG VRPH more expensive care, preventing more is paid for by the user or their families, PLOOLRQ SDWLHQWV VLQFH LW ZDV ODXQFKHG serious and costly diseases and increasing we base our approach in these markets LQ productivity.
Nevertheless, and as outlined on an understanding of their economic in Marketplace from page 11, we are acutely circumstances and the burden placed aware of the economic challenges faced by on them by health costs.
Our new pricing payers and remain committed to delivering strategy addressing out-of-pocket funding, value.
We are committed to a pricing policy developed in 2016, focuses on two of our for our medicines based on four principles: therapy areas, Respiratory and CVMD, and uses socio-economic evaluation on We determine the price of our medicines a country-by-country basis to determine while considering their full value for affordable price points for self-pay patients patients, payers and society.
The based on ability to pay.
agreement on price involves many national, regional and local stakeholders, Our efforts to price medicines affordably reecting factors such as clinical benefit, were seen by the Access to Medicine cost effectiveness, improvement to life Foundation as an important step and, expectancy and quality of life.
together with our approach to IP and our We aim to ensure the sustainability capacity building strategy in markets such of both the healthcare system and as Brazil and China, contributed to our rise our research-led business model.
We from 15th place in 2014 to 7th place in 2016 believe we share a collective responsibility in the Foundations biennial Access to 2.5m with healthcare providers and other Medicine Index.
For more information on stakeholders to work together to enable our initiatives, see Healthy Heart Africa 2XU D] %HP SURJUDPPH LQ %UD]LO KDV an efficient healthcare system for patients on page 49, affordability programme in helped some 2.5 million patients.
today and support a pipeline of new Brazil on this page, and our Young Health medicines for patients tomorrow.
We will continue We seek to ensure appropriate patient to work with partners and patients to access to our medicines.
We work develop sustainable access initiatives for closely with payers and providers to as many patients as possible.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 51 Strategic Report Business Review Business Review continued Code of Conduct: one is for new starters the Company.
Be a great place to introduce the Code, while the other is material legal proceedings can be found the annual training for all employees, which in Note 28 to the Financial Statements to work serves as an important reminder of our key from page 185. commitments and principles.
Great people see Employees from Transparency reporting During 2016, we continued to train AstraZeneca is committed to the highest page 54 are central to our success employees on the ethical standards that standards of conduct in all of our operations, and being a great place to work is govern the way we operate.
We maintain including transparency in how we partner DW WKH KHDUW RI RXU HRUWV WR UHOHDVH a robust compliance programme in our with physicians and medical institutions.
the talents of our people.
We promote efforts to ensure that there is compliance In the US, our external transparency a culture, both for employees and with all applicable laws, regulations and reporting meets the requirements of the those third parties with whom we adopted industry codes, and that our Physician Payments Sunshine Act Open work, that delivers sustainable business is operating with high ethical Payments, as well as relevant state good performance and long-term standards.
Our compliance programme transparency laws.
In Europe, AstraZenecas business success.
is delivered by dedicated compliance reporting meets the requirements of the professionals who advise on and monitor European Federation of Pharmaceutical adherence to our Code of Conduct, Global Industries and Associations EFPIA Overview Policies and supporting requirements.
Disclosure Code, as well as applicable We continued to train employees on These professionals also support our line local transparency requirements.
the ethical standards that govern the managers locally, seeking to ensure that way we operate their staff meet our high ethical standards.
Working with suppliers :H LGHQWLHG VL[ FRQUPHG EUHDFKHV RI A network of nominated signatories With most of our API manufacturing external sales and marketing regulations reviews our promotional materials and outsourced, we need an uninterrupted or codes activities against applicable requirements.
supply of high-quality raw materials.
We We carried out 8,977 risk assessments In 2016, audit professionals in Internal therefore place great importance on our on third parties as part of our risk Audit Services also conducted compliance global procurement policies and integrated management process audits on selected marketing companies.
We purchase We are developing a health and wellbeing When engaging third parties for sales and materials from a wide range of suppliers framework based on the WHO Healthy marketing activities or other services, we and work to mitigate supply risks, such as Workplace Model are committed to working with only those natural or man-made disasters that disrupt 2YHU PLOOLRQ RXQJ SHRSOH DFURVV YH third parties who embrace high standards of supply chains or the unavailability of raw continents were provided with skills and ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
Contingency plans include using information to improve their health dual or multiple suppliers where appropriate, We identied six confirmed breaches of maintaining adequate stock levels and Sales and marketing ethics external sales and marketing regulations working to mitigate the effect of pricing We are committed to employing high ethical or codes in 2016 2015: 11. uctuations in raw materials.
standards of sales and marketing practice worldwide, which are detailed in our Code There were 1,729 instances, most of them We also seek to manage reputational of Conduct and supporting Global Policies minor, of non-compliance with our Code risk.
Our ethical standards are integral to on Ethical Interactions.
Approximately of Conduct, Global Policies or supporting our procurement and partnering activities 34,100 employees are engaged in our requirements in our Commercial Regions, and we continuously monitor compliance Commercial activities.
We report publicly including instances by employees and third through assessments and improvement on the number of: parties 2015: 1,749. programmes.
We work only with those suppliers whose standards of ethical confirmed breaches of external sales We removed a total of 222 employees and behaviour are consistent with our own.
and marketing codes third parties from their roles as a result of We will not use suppliers who are unable breaches of our Code of Conduct, Global these breaches a single breach may involve to meet our standards.
Policies or supporting requirements by more than one person.
We also formally employees and third parties in our warned 429 others and provided further To achieve this, we have an established Commercial Regions, and associated guidance or coaching on our policies to process for third party risk management.
The most serious breaches This process assesses risk based upon were raised with the Audit Committee.
These include risks related Alongside our Company Values, our Code to bribery and corruption, data privacy, of Conduct guides us on how we can make The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act the environment and wages.
Each step the best day-to-day choices on behalf investigation involving AstraZeneca was of the process provides an additional level of AstraZeneca and act in a consistent, resolved in 2016 following a civil settlement of assessment, and we conduct more responsible way, worldwide.
There are two agreed with the SEC: the DOJ closed its detailed assessments on those relationships mandatory training courses dedicated to the investigation without taking action against identied as higher risk.
Through this 52 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Strategic Report risk-mitigation process, we seek to better on the World Health Organizations Healthy Program.
Additionally, we donated over understand the partners risk approach and Workplace Model, which will give sites $20 million in products across multiple seek to ensure the partner understands and and marketing companies a blueprint for therapeutic areas to our NGO partners can meet our standards.
We conducted a continuous improvement in this area.
AmeriCares and Direct Relief International total of 8,977 assessments in 2016, taking in support of public health needs and our total number of assessments to 21,622 In 2016, we carried out a number of disaster relief.
Of these, 6,622 were in activities and initiatives focused on delivery the Asia Pacic region, 6,488 in Europe and of improvements in key areas of concern, Young Health Programme 5,712 in the Americas.
The remaining 2,800 including driver safety, fall prevention, We continued to develop the three strands assessments relate to global suppliers and behavioural SHE, risk management, of our Young Health Programme YHP : those based in the Middle East and Africa.
industrial hygiene and stress management.
on-the-ground programmes: advocacy: We also continued to focus on learning from and research and evidence generation.
In 2016, we conducted 66 audits on incidents, using a dedicated website where Our on-the-ground programmes focus high-risk suppliers, seeking to ensure all employees can access the learning to on the primary prevention of NCDs and that they employ appropriate practices help ensure incidents are not repeated.
Thirty two percent of From 2010 to 2016, the programme has suppliers met our expectations, with a Vehicle collisions provided over 1.6 million young people in further 42% implementing improvement communities across five continents with Collisions Year per million km Target plans to address minor instances of the skills and information they need to 2016 3.62 4.00 non-compliance.
Through our due diligence improve their health.
Over 47,000 of these 2015 4.13 5.60 process, we rejected 40 suppliers because young people have been trained to share of reputational concerns.
this health information with their peers and Reportable injuries the community.
The programmes have also Safety, health and wellbeing trained more than 12,600 frontline health Reportable injury rate We work to promote a safe, healthy and workers in adolescent health.
2016 saw per million energising work environment for employees the launch of a programme in Kenya, the Year hours worked Target and partners.
As outlined in our Safety, extension of the India programme to 2020 2016 1.45 1.64 Health and Environment SHE strategy and a new programme in Canada.
Further 2015 1.73 N A on page 45, we have established a set of programmes are in development for 2017. safety, health and wellbeing targets aimed at supporting our people and keeping Community investment Further information on YHP can be found on its website, www.
com AstraZeneca among the sector leaders Our global community investment strategy in SHE performance.
focuses on healthcare in the community and science.
For example, 2016 was the Disaster relief We made good progress against our sixth year of our partnership with the UK The British Red Cross continues to act as new strategic targets in 2016, achieving a educational charity Career Ready to support our global disaster relief partner, channelling 16% reduction in the reportable injury rate increased participation by 16- to 19-yearthe bulk of our disaster relief donations.
and a 12% reduction in vehicle collision olds in science, technology, engineering In addition to the charitable donations rate from 2015 baseline.
Building on our and maths subjects.
referenced in Community investment above, previous success in establishing a culture in July 2016 we donated $200,000 via the of health and wellbeing, we are developing In 2016, we spent a total of approximately British Red Cross to the Kuala Lumpur a health and wellbeing framework, based $501 million 2015: approximately Emergency Response Unit, and $25,000 to $680 million on community investment replenish stocks of hygiene kits at the British sponsorships, partnerships and charitable Red Cross Crescent Panama Warehouse donations worldwide, including our following Hurricane Matthew.
product donation and patient assistance programmes which make our medicines available free of charge or at reduced prices.
In 2016, we provided more than $466 million 2015: over $617 million in savings to almost 200,000 patients in the US and Puerto Rico through our AZ&Me Prescription Savings 21,000 Carried out more than 21,000 supplier assessments since May 2014.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 53
