Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business Line review Expert insight on customers challenges and needs.
Our services We support our customers in Workwear managing complexity and controlling risk.
Our efficient and cost-effective Peter Havus Managing Director, out-sourced workwear solutions Workwear unlock opportunities by providing our customers with a supply of functional and legally compliant workwear.
Our services include workwear design, rental and delivery, repair, stockholding and stock management, including Workwear 8,000 specialised garment dispensing share of Group revenue customers provided feedback in 2016 systems.
We are dedicated to being as part of our Customer Feedback the natural partner for workwear and Programme.
This helps us to continuously protection management.
improve our quality andservice delivery.
31% Performance overview 347m Revenue continued to grow in 2016, as The new customer segment-oriented growth in Europe offset a small decline structure is developed on the basis of in the UK.
However profitability was feedback from nearly 1,400 interviews impacted by higher than expected costs with existing and potential customers in the UK, caused by poor customer mix and on input from 8,500 existing Market size and higher use of textiles.
Outside of customers via our Customer Feedback the UK, the business continued to make Programme.
This work has also led to a progress.
For more details on financial strategic focus on further development 3,500m performance refer to the Financial of workwear management solutions, and Addressed market Review section on page46.
on systems supporting the handling of The addressed market is a subset of larger total risks and administrative complexity for market.
The information has been extracted from our customers.
In addition, Workwear internal analysis.
1 has initiated a comprehensive mapping Customer of the customer journey and decision Our customers focus processes within key industry segments.
a Private industries and public sector The insights from this have created a During 2016, the Business Line companies across Continental solid platform for further development implemented a customer segment Europe and the UK of products, services and customer oriented organisational structure feedback in 2017. with clear accountabilities.
The sales a We have a strong track record and account management, product of creating value and makingthe An important element in the continuous development, customer service and business safer for our customers improvement of quality and service operations teams are now set up to in:food and beverage, catering, delivery is our Customer Feedback focus on selected industry segments, metal and machinery and Programme, where we received direct gaining further industry insight and petrochemical and utilities feedback from more than 8,000 expertise on customer needs in our key industries, amongst others customers in 2016 across all countries.
The aim is to ensure that we Going forward, this will be supported are better positioned to full the needs by a quality management programme Market drivers of our customers and thereby create and Group Excellence Continuous a Increasing focus on outsourcing to greater value for our target customers.
Improvement programme, strengthening reduce administrative complexity both quality and deliveries according to and or controlling business risk agreed lead times.
To further ensure that we are accountable to our customers a Stricter health and safety and that we deliver on our customer regulations for Workwear retention target, customer service will be a Increasing demand for part of operations from 2017.  solutions that reduce water usage and use of chemicals 22 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements In addition, a large number of managers and specialists within all areas of the Operational People Business Line have attended e-learning 3 2 excellence effectiveness courses in LEAN principles to ensure that we eliminate processes that do not Our CL production concept for design In connection with the introduction create value for our customers in every and organisation of production lines of the new customer segment link of the service chain.
Further, selected and service ows based on best oriented structure, the Business Line specialists primarily within Operations practice across countries is delivering strengthened customer and market have attained expert capabilities within real benets in our Workwear plants capabilities across the business during LEAN through participation in Yellow, in Continental Europe and in the UK.
2016 with a special focus on marketing, Green and Black Belt courses.
Key elements in the CL concept are sales, account management, operations, LEAN processing, division of work and service and product development.
customer-specic workows, allowing During the year, the Business Line 4 us to provide solutions to individual also conducted an organisational Effective use customer needs with higher levels of design review in the UK.
This aims at of available capital service, productivity and efficiency than supporting the implementation of traditional mechanised laundry ows.
In 2016, Workwear continued its the customer segmentation strategy conversion of plants to the LEAN-based At present, we have introduced the CL and new operating model through CL concept with proven benets to model at 33 Workwear plants through dening the standards and structures customer service, productivity and conversions ornew-builds.
in all sites, functions and departments.
During the year, the Business This work has led to an uplift of In 2016, the Business Line made good Line inaugurated a new-built highgeneral management and people progress in dening our next generation end plant in Durham, UK, taking over management capabilities.
CL model, CL 3.0, which will further production from the existing Durham target customer segment specic facility, and converted existing plants in needs and streamline the end-to-end Dietzenbach, Germany and Birmingham, management of customer services and UK.
Further, the Workwear plant in capitalise further on the application of Sborg, Denmark moved to Taastrup, LEAN operating principles.
Central to Denmark, where the production has this will be enhanced service delivery been converted to the CL standard as with investment in online solutions and well.
This represents an accelerated pace key account management.
of conversions with four in 2016 against five in total in the previous three years.
We are introducing the new CL 3.0 design to eight plants over the next two years through conversion of four existing plants and four new-builds.
This will support our development and supply of further customer segment specic solutions, addressing individual customer needs with higher levels of service, productivity and efficiency.
In addition, we will accelerate investments in online customer solutions, marketing and customer relations management systems.
23 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business Line review continued A strong mix of servicesandsolutions.
Our services Our Facility Business Line has three Facility Operational distinct services: Washroom, Mats and 2 excellence Cleanroom.
We unlock opportunities Baba Suketu Devani Managing Director, Washroom, Mats and Cleanroom are in this highly regulated and compliance Facility making good progress in dening driven area by providing serviced differentiated new operating models for washroom and mat solutions to a broad each service.
These models describe the range of offices and industries.
With our optimal setup for meeting customer needs support, our customers are able to and expectations in every link of the service access high standards of hygiene, indoor chain, including plant design, work ows climate and safety.
We also supply Facility and the organisation of internal processes individually customised solutions for share of Group revenue to ensure efficiency, high quality, excellent controlled areas and cleanrooms to service, and close customer dialogue.
protect sensitive products and processes The new operating models are now being from human particles.
23% nalised and will be implemented in 2017.
They will be supported by investments Performance overview 259m in online solutions, key account and The business continued to make good service management.
progress in 2016, with growth in both revenue and profitability, driven by good performances in Cleanroom and Mats.
For more details on financial People Market size performance refer to the Financial 3 effectiveness Review section on page 46.
We are focused on continuous 1,200m improvement of our production, Addressed market distribution and service processes to 1 Customer ensure both efficiency and a safe and good The addressed market is a subset of the larger total market.
The information has been extracted from focus working environment for all colleagues.
To achieve this, we are implementing In 2016, we separated Washroom and LEAN in all parts of the Facility Business Mats as separate services with clear Our customers Line.
During 2016, we have trained a targets and responsibilities within sales, large number of colleagues in the LEAN a Washroom: A wide range of service and operations.
The Cleanroom methodology, with people completing businesses, including offices, business continues to be a separate Yellow, Green and Black Belt LEAN restaurants, production companies, service.
The purpose of this is to support certication.
Our focus on LEAN will and the healthcare industry further development of customer continue and we will continuously train differentiated services and enhance a Mats: A broad customer base, colleagues and execute LEAN projects.
During the year, including retailers, restaurants, we strengthened customer and market offices and facility companies capabilities within many areas of all 4 a Cleanroom: Specialised three service areas, including marketing, Effective use companies, pharmaceutical and service and product development.
of available capital high-tech industries The focus is to build and maintain strong relationships with our customers and in Investments in new technology are Market drivers close cooperation identify better and made with clear focus on ensuring the more efficient ways to work together, best return on capital invested.
This is a Washroom: Increasing hygiene developing our solutions through obtained through investing in state-ofawareness and growing trend continuous innovation.
the-art machinery to ensure operational towards outsourcing efficiency, improved exibility and a Mats: Largely undeveloped market environmentally optimal production.
and by increased demand for In 2016, we invested in new cleanroom outsourced solutions facilities in the Czech Republic, Russia, and Germany.
We also acquired an a Cleanroom: Greater regulation additional mat plant in Denmark.
andincreasing hygiene awareness All investments have raised capacity and broadened our customer base and geographical reach at the same time.
24 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Many of our customers operate in highly regulated markets with strict quality, Cleanroom hygiene and safety standards, often with multi-country presence.
Here, we Our Cleanroom product and service are able to offer a unique partnership propositions sustain our customers platform with a network of production key operations across many industries, and back-up facilities to deliver a including high-tech companies, superior service.
We service the market universities and research facilities, from twelve specialised cleanroom pharmaceutical and medical device plants across Europe, many of them companies.
Whereas many workwear offering cross-border solutions to solutions relate to protecting people neighbouring countries.
12 against the working environment, We support our customers with cleanroom services are also about contamination control solutions, Market drivers protecting the production process and meetingthe strictest industry work environment against particles shed All industries working with safe standards, by servicing the market from 12 specialised cleanroom plants by humans, which can harm products production in controlled areas and across Europe: many of them offering and production processes.
We support cleanroom environments face constantly cross-border solutions.
our customers as a contamination increasing regulatory requirements control partner through innovative and demands for documentation solutions, strong knowledge about of compliance.
In addition, many industry standards and requirements industries work towards higher levels Our services and a range of portfolio offerings.
ofsterilisation, covering a broader We support our customers in protecting scopeof business processes.
sensitive products and processes Our customers and creating safe environments for These trends support our continuous cleanroom operators.
Our propositions The Cleanroom service addresses a development of contamination control are adapted to our customers individual variety of industries, where companies and compliance management systems, needs and requirements and they are require solutions for safe production based on enhanced use of RFID chips developed, tested and validated in close in controlled environments, e. g. in garments and articles, as well as cooperation with our customers, making pharmaceutical, medical device, and development of strategic propositions it possible to develop and support high-tech companies.
to support contamination control in innovative solutions surpassing the new industries.
Our range of solutions span from garments, cleaning systems, mats, clogs, goggles, disposables and logistics to intelligent solutions, consultancy and training.
Our solutions cover all phases of cleanroom operations including contamination control in connection with entrance and exit.
We provide solutions for the lockers in the changing area, the mat at the entrance, the garments covering the operator from boots to hood, goggles protecting the eyes of the operator and preventing the shed of particles, and nalising the cycle: the cleaning system, achieving optimised contamination control.
Through these full-range solutions, we have a strong foundation to further strengthen our position as the Contamination Control Partner.
25 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business Line review continued Mats Our Mats service holds leading positions in most of the 14 markets where we operate.
We provide a broad fully serviced range of mat and mop rental solutions which can be tailored for each individual customers needs.
At present, key customer focus is on oor protection and dust and dirt control.
Here, our differentiated portfolio of mat solutions supports our customers in reducing dust and dirt, improving indoor climate and safety and lower overall cleaning costs attheir premises.
Our customers The Mats service addresses a very broad customer base which includes retailers, wholesalers, restaurants, garages and all kinds of offices, industrial premises and government facilities.
The average customer size is relatively small but our Mats service deals with Further, we offer a variety of fabrics: Our services all sizes of customers including the nylon, cotton, microbre and rubber, We serve our customers with serviced facility management sector.
We service eachaddressing different types of use mat rental solutions, which are either different types of mats, dedicated for and needs.
In addition, we offer serviced standardised or adapted to their different locations within our customers mop solutions.
Our zone concept, introduced Our portfolio of solutions cover a span of Constant product innovation and in 2015, focuses on unmet needs for mat mat types: entrance mats, logo message continuous focus on high quality solutions inside the building in addition mats, anti-fatigue mats and mats for deliveries are key elements in to the traditional entrance zone solution, production areas.
has led to many new customers and In 2016, we continued to improve our upsale to existing customers of logo product portfolio with a higher level and message mats and anti-fatigue of premium categories in all markets.
We also successfully introduced our new microbre mat, MicroTech, with a greater Market drivers absorbency and durability, in several The Mats service is generally growing.
Further, we presented our new Favourable outsourcing trends and microbre mop concept, SmartMops, increased awareness of the importance which enables our customers to manage of health and safety and product and their oor hygiene and mop costs service quality provide opportunities to through the usage of RFID technology.
grow in new markets and consolidate These innovative solutions support and enhance business in mature markets.
our position as industry experts on In addition, an increasing number of mat services, looking beyond the customers are becoming aware of mats basicfunctional needs of a mat.
as an important and integrated element in their image proling and messaging towards their customers and staff as well as the benets of serviced mat solutions for other areas of their premises than We provide serviced retail solutions for merely the entrance area.
all needs: entrancemats, logo message mats, anti-fatigue mats andmats for production areas.
26 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Washroom The washroom market has very few limits as every kind of business requires washroom facilities.
However, only 20% of all companies have a serviced washroom solution today.
Our aim is to increase the number of companies having serviced hygiene solutions to a much higher level via our market knowledge, position and expertise.
We provide a fully serviced broad range of solutions which can be tailored for each individual customers needs.
Our customers We service all market segments and types of businesses.
Customers are public sector organisations as well as private companies with most focus on private offices, production, healthcare and pharmaceutical companies, the education industry and hotels and restaurants.
Our products are covered by aspecial, Our services patented, anti-bacterial surface Our market position is The Hygiene Market drivers that improves washroom hygiene.
Expert meaning that we do not only Many dispensers are also available in a The market is driven by increased take care of the washroom solution non-touch version, securing the highest focus on hygiene, wellness and health and related service but we aim to hygiene standard.
In addition, we provide compliance from companies, their increase our customers overall hygiene customers with Berendsen line EU customers and staff as well as stricter level.
We provide our customers with ECO labelled paper range.
Our wide regulatory requirements within health everything from toilet paper and range of full-service dispensers diminish and hygiene.
soap dispensers to hand paper, hand the amount of bacteria and together sanitizer and air freshener dispensers.
Our surveys show that, at present, with constant focus on improved and Berendsen line design dispensers only four out of ten washroom users correct hand hygiene, our service are supplied in ten colour varieties.
use soap and hand drying paper.
model increases user satisfaction and The general increased focus on health employer value.
and hygiene supports strong market opportunities for innovative hygiene control solutions, such as our Berendsen LightGuide system, introduced in 2015.
It nudges washroom users to a better hand hygiene via light sequences, and through an innovative and customer adapted software package, it enables the company to track and document improved levels of hand hygiene.
In general, Berendsen LightGuide increases the number of hand washes from 40% to 60-70%.
20% Only 20% of all companies have a servicedwashroom solution today.
We see good opportunities for increasing that number though our market knowledge, position and expertise.
27 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business Line review continued Setting new standards.
Our services Performance overview Our healthcare services and solutions Revenue was at in 2016, excluding the Healthcare support our customers drive for impact of foreign currency, as growth greater patient safety, infection control, in Europe offset a small decline in the Christophe Martin Managing Director, efficiency and compliance.
However, profitability declined, Healthcare portfolio of Berendsen branded textile due to operational instability in the UK.
solutions as well as sterilisation, surgical The performance of the UK business kits and clinical solutions under the reected the need to invest in people Guardian, Rocialle and IHSS brands.
Outside of the UK We partner with our customers to create textiles business, the business continued innovative, differentiated and costto make progress, excluding the impact Healthcare effective services and solutions tailored of plant closures.
For more details share of Group revenue to their specic needs, enabling them to on financial performance refer to the provide the safest and highest quality of Financial Review section on page 47. care to their patients.
29% Within our textile solutions, we offer the 317m 1 highest possible standards of cleanliness, Customer through thermal disinfection of soiled focus linen and strict procedures on its handling.
In addition, we offer efficient During 2016, we redesigned the textile management, ensuring that organisation of our healthcare business hospital, clinic and care home staff can services and established Healthcare as Market size fully focus on patient safety and care.
a separate customer-focused Business Our clinical solutions provide surgical Line.
The purpose is to support further teams with sterile instruments, drapes, development of customer differentiated 1,350m gowns, tray wraps and pads as well as services, enhance industry insight and Addressed market different types of sterile packaging in strengthen customer partnerships.
a choice of single use, re-usable or a The addressed market is a subset of larger total During the year, the Business Line market.
The information has been extracted from combination, reducing the risk of surgical internal analysis.
conducted thorough market and customer site infection.
We operate from a number review programmes to identify present of specialised facilities all high integrity Our customers and future customer needs, key strategic sterile environments.
a Hospitals and healthcare providers a Elderly care organisations a Home care and dental clinics a Private sector manufacturers of medical devices Market drivers a Ageing population driving increased demand for quality healthcare a Increasing trend towards outsourcing among healthcare providers as part of efficiency programmes a Rigorous and evolving regulations in relation to infection control a Rising emerging market living standards driving increased demand for quality healthcare 28 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements Focus was directed towards the This work has led to an uplift of general management and people management opportunities for setting new standards in the healthcare business in terms of capabilities within operations.
quality of care, hygiene control, infection Along with the implementation of the prevention and cost efficiency.
This work new operating model, the Business Line has now led to the development of a is conducting a series of LEAN-based We will continue to invest in pipeline of new products and services reviews of selected business processes.
state-of-the-art facilities, and RFID which will be introduced over the technology which ensures that The purpose is to ensure the highest coming years.
we canguarantee efficient textile level of efficiency and value adding to management, infection prevention and An example of new market opportunities our customers.
The reviews have led to quality assurance to our customers.
is the care homes sector in the UK, identication of a series of improvement where the level of outsourced textile and projects, which are being implemented.
linen services is markedly lower than in The reviews and LEAN training A key element in the new operating other countries.
In 2016, we expanded programme will continue over the model is the broad introduction of our elderly care services, particularly coming years both at Business Line RFID technology, using tags sewn into the UK care sector, building on our andcountry level.
This will help us set new expertise and experience in providing standards for infection prevention similar services in Denmark, Sweden, and hygiene at hospitals and in the Germany and Ireland.
At present, we run 4 care home sector through efficient a state-of-the art pilot facility in Brixton Effective use tracking and management of linen and with one of the most modern production of available capital transparency of lifecycle usage and lines in Europe.
This operating model user patterns.
Over the coming years, ensures full traceability by individual Over the coming years, we will invest we will introduce RFID technology at all product and resident as well as ensuring signicantly in state-of-the-art laundries our healthcare plants and at selected processing in accordance with the and RFID technology for tracking and customer installations.
strictest hygiene standards for care management of linen.
This service will be further We have already incorporated As part of the investment programme, developed and broadened through RFID into our healthcare solutions we will upgrade all UK Healthcare plants significant investments in coming years.
in Sweden, Denmark, Germany and to a new blueprint comprising a LEANAustria where we have developed its based state-of-the-art laundry design, capabilities in textile management and supporting the new operating model.
This will ensure increased capacity and Operational enable us to offer personalised solutions During 2017, we will develop a new 2 excellence operating model for our clinical to our customers.
The design of our new LEAN-based solutions business.
Further, we will leverage our access operating model for textile solutions to the market to create more value was completed during summer 2016. for our customers through continued The model describes the optimal design investments in the development of new of all processes in the service chain, People innovative services and products.
We will 3 including a blueprint design for plants effectiveness invest in the area of decontamination and all workows from initial customer and sterilisation endoscopes, surgical The new Business Line management contact via handling, processing and kits and CPTs as well in a number of and organisational structure was in place administration to customer feedback.
hygiene related services targeted at from Q3.
During H2, the international The model is currently being pilot tested improving infection prevention.
Business Line management team in the Healthcare plant in Newton structure was nalised and is now fully Abbot, UK.
The roll-out to other plants populated ensuring strong leadership will commence during H1 2017, starting capabilities across all disciplines.
with UK plants and then expanding to other countries.
Through this, we ensure In 2016, Healthcare conducted an high quality of service, enhance our organisational capability review in opportunities for developing innovative the UK.
This aims at supporting the tailored solutions and attain operational implementation of the new operating exibility to meet changing needs.
This will model through dening the standards solve the organisational difficulties arising and t-for-purpose structures in all from past underinvestment encountered sites, functions and departments.
29 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business Line review continued Growth is opening up new opportunities.
The rapid growth of sharing economy Our services business models in the hospitality When someone is a guest in a hotel or Hospitality sector provides further opportunities a serviced apartment, when they dine for us to grow our business through the in a restaurant, are on board a cruise Niels Peter Hansen development of new services to support Managing Director, ship or attend an event, they expect to this new segment.
We support our customers in ensuring this through the provision of robust textile rental solutions, providing our customers Operational with bed linen, towelling, table linen, 2 excellence chefswear, frontline uniforms and textile Hospitality management systems.
The design of our new operating share of Group revenue model was completed in spring 2016, Performance overview aided by a team of LEAN specialists.
The starting point for the models Revenue continued to grow in 2016 17% design was customer research, which but profitability declined, as a result highlighted that customers increasingly 187m of operational instability in the UK.
require bespoke linen as part of a The performance in the UK was impacted comprehensive branding strategy by higher levels of machine downtime designed to differentiate their offer to and operational inefficiencies, identifying guests.
This branding, which is prevalent the need for investment in people, across all hotel sectors from budget plant and machinery, which resulted in Market size brands to luxury boutique hotels, significant additional costs being incurred typically includes bespoke duvet covers in order to meet customer service levels.
and may extend to pillowcases, sheets Outside of the UK, the business continued 650m and towelling.
For more details Addressed market on financial performance refer to the Financial Review section on page 48.
The addressed market is a subset of larger total market.
The information has been extracted from internal analysis.
1 Our customers Customer focus a Hotel groups The Hospitality Business Line was a Independent and boutique hotels created to support further development a Restaurants of customer differentiated services and enhance customer partnerships.
a Serviced apartments Our Hospitality business focuses a Corporate canteens on specic market segments of which the largest is hotel groups.
a Ferries and airlines In December 2016 Berendsen acquired a Customer interviews conducted minority stake, with option for full control, throughout 2016 have highlighted in an online laundry and dry-cleaning Market drivers service provider based in and covering multiple opportunities for service Copenhagen.
Washa provides a doora Increasing trend for a greater development and differentiation which step service to private households and proportion of the hotel sector are designed to meet our customers individuals, controlling the end-user to be owned by groups, evident goals of reducing their own operational relationship and the complex logistics behind distribution.
Both of these key through new openings and complexity and cost while enhancing elements of the value chain are managed industry consolidation the guest experience for their brands.
through Washas back-end technology This work has led to the development which is accessible by customers either a Greater outsourcing tendency, of a variety of new propositions.
We will online or through an app.
The processing particularly in catering of dry cleaning and laundry services proceed to incorporate several of these is outsourced, currently exclusively a Increased leisure and tourism ideas into our proposition during 2017, with Berendsen.
Washa is the largest while also introducing some of the best and fastest growing laundry services a Growing popularity of ne dining practice ideas from our operations in provider in Copenhagen with ambitions especially in the Nordic region to grow across Europe with support Sweden and Denmark into Ireland and from Berendsen.
30 Berendsen plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview Our business Responsibility Financial review Risk Governance Financial statements 4 Effective use of available capital Our new operating model and investment cases are predicated on the effective use of capital.
Efficiency is a key focus, achieving a high throughput while delivering the quality standards that customers require and making the best possible use of our available capacity.
Specic areas include the increased use of automation to offset increasing labour costs and the use of sophisticated routing software to ensure that our transport capacity is utilised effectively.
In 2016, we implemented RFID technology in three UK plants and we plan to upgrade all our UK plants over the coming years.
The roll-out of RFID technology, placing electronic tags in the linen, will deliver benets to customers through improved Improved customer communications linen availability and linen quality, as and a focus on clarity and simplicity will People items which have been processed help to reduce the time our customers 3 beyond a specified number of times effectiveness need to spend managing their linen.
can be more closely monitored for The Hospitality Business Line was Key elements in the model are improved signs of wear which will prompt their created in 2016.
The international physical processing and advanced replacement.
It will also increase our Business Line management team delivery systems.
We will also be using linen asset utilisation and ensure that isnowin place.
technology such as online portals and linen doesnt drop out of the service RFID chips to enhance the customers cycle, for example by accumulating in Country management teams are experience and to strengthen our customers storage areas, but continues also in place and have immediately service differentiation.
commenced work to deliver initiatives inthe priority areas of customer focus We have now built investment cases We are planning upgrades of five and operational excellence.
for the roll-out of the new operating existing plants to our new operating model to new greeneld sites as well as model design during 2017.
In addition, In the UK, we have completed the for upgrading key existing browneld our investment programme includes two organisational design, dening standards sites to deliver efficiency and customer greeneld state-of-the-art plants which and t-for-purpose structures inall service enhancement.
Many of will be commissioned during 2017. sites, functions and departments.
these investments will be completed In lling these roles we are completing The first of these will be in Scotland, during 2017. asignicant project aimed at investing opening in Glasgow late in 2017, an in the management skillset within the A wide-ranging review of our investment exceeding 10 million.
UK business with particular focus on Hospitality business continues with This new plant will replace our existing leadership skills, people management further support from LEAN specialists, Glasgow site and will employ our capabilities and commercial acumen.
focusing on business improvement new operating model with the latest in areas including linen management, equipment and processes to serve Continuous training will be provided.
transport optimisation and engineering existing and new customers in Scotland.
A LEAN training programme has already best practice.
It will have substantially more capacity, been implemented across all countries.
which will enable us to support our An upgraded health and safety structure customers in their growth ambitions.
is now in place with new reporting systems and clear responsibilities at all levels of the organisation.
