Business review Automotive & General Industrial Smooth sailing Diesel engine pistons During the diesel engine cycle, combustion gases push the pistons downward generating power on the working stroke.
Heat treatment gives the finished piston and its pin the ability to withstand high temperatures and extended runs, delivering high performance over sustained periods.
Depending on the specific piston component, they undergo casehardening, induction hardening, tempering, stress relieving and nitriding.
For further information about our services go to www.
com services Courtesy of Wrtsil Corporation Courtesy of Koncentra Pistons 18 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Whilst the Automotive & General Industrial AGI marketplace Return on capital employed in 2016 decreased to 15.2% 2015: has many multinational customers, which tend to operate on a 16.0%, reflecting the lower profitability as a result of lower sales.
regionally-focused basis, it also has numerous medium-sized and It is worth noting that the acquisitions have impacted the average smaller businesses, all of whom are very important to Bodycote.
opening and closing capital employed figures significantly more Generally, there are more competitors to Bodycote in AGI and than they have contributed in terms of profitability, given that they much of the business is locally oriented, meaning that proximity all completed towards the end of the year.
Excluding acquisitions, to the customer is very important.
Bodycotes extensive network return on capital employed would have been 15.5%.
of 126 AGI facilities enables the business to offer the widest range Achievements in 2016 of technical capability and security of supply, while continuing to AGI has clearly had to contend with weak General Industrial increase the proportion of technically differentiated services that it demand across all of its territories.
Bodycote has a long and successful history of serving this development of our emerging markets businesses in China, wide-ranging customer base.
Mexico, Czech Republic and Poland has been pleasing.
We continue Results to win good high-margin business, and our AGI focused Specialist 3 AGI business revenues were 349.7m in 2016, compared to Technologies of S P, Low Pressure Carburising and Corr-I-Dur all 323.7m in 2015, an increase of 8.0% 3.2% decrease at constant continue to be a key driver of the improved profitability in the AGI exchange rates.
AGI revenues saw a small benefit from the acquisitions made Organisation and people towards the end of the year.
However, this was more than offset At 31 December 2016, the number of full-time equivalent employees by the impact of plant closures from 2015.
As a result, like-for-like in AGI was 3,502 including 188 from acquired businesses compared AGI sales were down a modest 1.8% for the full year, with the to 3,331 at the end of 2015 and its peak of 5,244 in July 2008. second half revenues virtually flat against the same period in 2015.
Looking ahead Weakness in the General Industrial business was more pronounced The decline in the General Industrial business has undoubtedly in North America than in Western Europe, but emerging markets been largely driven by the knock-on impact on capital equipment registered good growth.
While some OEM destocking held our demand from lower activity in the oil & gas and other resources business back in North America, car and light truck revenues were sectors.
We do not foresee further significant declines in these strong in Western Europe, with solid growth in the key French and markets.
As far as the Automotive business is concerned, any German markets, as we won business building on the strengths policy changes by the new USA administration towards the existing of our Specialist Technologies.
Strong car and light truck revenue USA fuel efficiency targets and on international trade agreements growth was recorded in emerging markets, as the Group benefited more generally could have an impact on our business but the likely from its investments in these markets.
The depressed bus and outcome is unpredictable at this stage.
heavy trucks market negatively impacted sales in the USA and Sweden.
The multinational nature of Bodycotes AGI businesses puts us in a great position to take advantage of market developments.
In the 1 Headline operating profit in AGI was 58.5m compared to 53.4m meantime, we will continue to build on the success of enhancing in 2015.
Headline operating margin increased to 16.7% 2015: margins through capturing high-value work.
The focus on improving 16.5%, reflecting a further improvement in mix towards highercustomer service helps drive this effort while the prioritisation of value work, along with strong cost control.
Revenues from the existing capacity in favour of higher-value work and investing in Groups Specialist Technologies grew well at high margins.
Specialist Technologies provides additional momentum.
In addition Net capital expenditure in 2016 was 37.4m 2015: 39.8m, which the Group will continue with its strategy of adding to its existing represents 1.1 times depreciation 2015: 1.3 times.
This included footprint in the rapid-growth countries when the right opportunities further investments in China, Mexico, Czech Republic and Turkey.
at the right price present.
The Group also completed the acquisition of five plants for total consideration of 30.2m as part of its bolt-on acquisition strategy, adding sites in Germany, the USA and Canada.
Headline operating profit is reconciled to operating profit in note 2 to the financial statements.
Bodycote plants do not exclusively supply services to customers of a given market sector see note 2 to the financial statements.
AGI revenue by geography AGI revenue by market sector m m Western Europe 214.9 9.4 Aerospace and Defence North America 94.3 Energy 8.3 Emerging markets 40.5 Automotive 162.5 Total 349.7 169.5 General Industrial Total 349.7 19 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25229.04 9 March 2017 5:13 PM PROOF 5 post self editing Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
