Strategic report Sustainable business review Britvics business is built on providing consumers with great drinks that they enjoy, from brands that they trust.
We know that building trust and respect in our communities is about doing the right thing by our customers, our employees, our shareholders, the environment and the communities in which we operate and it continues to be an integral part of our business strategy.
Where we have made estimates or Our continued commitment to exercised judgement this is highlighted our sustainable business against the data disclosure.
programme was recognised with an improved score within Consumer health the Business in the Community Obesity and other health issues such as Corporate Responsibility CR diabetes are a growing concern within our markets and we are committed to helping Index, which grew to 2.5 stars our consumers make informed choices to this year.
live healthier and more active lives.
We Further information about our sustainable believe that all of our drinks can be enjoyed business programme can be found within as part of a balanced diet and healthy our annual Sustainable Business Report lifestyle and we are proud of our leading which can be found at www.
com approach to innovation and reformulation.
We have witnessed a shift in consumer Focused on the issues behaviour towards healthier products and that matter this year we have removed a further 19bn calories 5MT sugar from our portfolio Our sustainable business programme is and remain committed to helping based on addressing the issues that are consumers make healthier choices through most material to our business those that reduced sugar products that are clearly represent a direct or indirect impact on our labelled.
Some of the innovations that ability to create, preserve or erode economic, entered the market this year included the environmental and social value for us, our launch of MiWadi Mini in Ireland, the launch stakeholders, the environment and society at of Sparkling Drench with only 3.9g sugar per large.
We maintain regular dialogue with our can in GB and the reformulation of Fruit key stakeholders to understand the issues Shoot in the US and France to reduce sugar they deem of importance and incorporate and calories respectively.
these considerations in our sustainable business programme, aligning time, Calorie and sugar savings from reformulations resources and investment accordingly.
We undertaken during the year are assumed on the concentrate on the highest priority issues previous years sales volumes regardless of when the reformulation entered onto the market in that within this report but more detail can be year.
Where a change of flavour occurs, the calorie found at www.
com and within our sugar calculations are assumed on the closest annual Sustainable Business Report.
comparable flavour for sales volumes, e. g. blackcurrant & apple assumed comparable to pear Reporting boundaries & blueberry.
All reformulation values are based on This year has been the first year we have the latest recipe nutritional content.
captured data for the Brazilian business, Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos Average calories per 250ml serve SA Ebba and have included this data 38 within our overall business performance 37 37.59 unless explicitly stated otherwise.
Water, energy and carbon emissions data relates 36 solely to our manufacturing sites in GB, 35 35.37 Ireland, France and Brazil where we have 34.9 34 full operational control.
33 2014 2015 2016 Uncertainty and estimates While we make every effort to capture all Chart showing the average number of information as accurately as possible, it is calories per 250ml across the business neither feasible nor practical to measure all excludes Brazil data with absolute certainty.
24 Number of calories Strategic report Sustainable business review continued Inclusion Gender diversity We are committed to providing equal Male Female opportunities to our current and potential employees and apply fair and equitable Board 7 78% 2 22% employment practices.
We value diversity and we recruit and promote talent on the Executive Committee 10 91% 1 9% basis of ability, skills, experience, behaviour, Senior Managers Band D 245 65% 131 35% performance and potential for the job.
Our selection, training, development and All employees 3,145 72% 1,228 28% promotion policies ensure equal opportunities for all colleagues regardless of factors such as age, sex, disability Responsible sourcing and Health, safety and wellbeing including colleagues who become Modern Slavery The health, safety and wellbeing of our disabled during service, gender including employees is paramount to Britvic and we We are committed to sourcing all our gender reassignment, marital status, have a Health, Safety and Wellbeing materials in a responsible manner, pregnancy and maternity, race, nationality, Committee which is chaired by our General working alongside our suppliers to drive religion or belief or sexual orientation.
Counsel with cross-functional representation best practice through audits and training Diversity in our workforce is crucial to our and support from health and safety and have a responsible sourcing success and we have a responsibility to specialists from across the group.
programme in place to manage the create an environment where people can environmental and ethical risks within our We run an employee wellbeing programme be themselves and are valued for their supply chain.
The Modern Slavery Act Wake up to Wellbeing in GB and Ireland uniqueness.
This year we worked with the 2015 has introduced changes in UK law which is based on the Governments One Business in the Community BITC race focusing on increasing transparency in You campaign designed to encourage, and gender equality campaigns, accessing supply chains.
We will publish a slavery empower and enable people to protect best practice resources and training on and human trafficking statement on our and improve their health and we also unconscious bias.
We developed reporting website in due course and in compliance provide an Employee Assistance and monitoring activities to include gender with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Programme which is confidential and and pay, internal promotions, external designed to offer support 24 hours a day, applicant demographics and recruitment Employee Health & Safety both online or on the phone.
decisions, and are currently participating in Were committed to providing a safe the BITC benchmarking surveys for gender working environment for our people and and race.
We also launched our four-year Creating a great place to identifying and managing safety risks is a roadmap for becoming a fully inclusive work for our employees top priority for us.
This year our safety organisation.
performance in relation to accident We recognise that our people are central The overall gender balance across all frequency and severity rate has significantly to our success and to achieving our future employees at 2 October 2016 was 28% improved on last year with a 23% and ambitions.
We currently employ over 4,000 female and 72% male.
This figure is 24.6% reduction respectively across the people around the world and have a talented indicative of our industry, with a high group.
A number of factors have and diverse workforce.
We want Britvic to proportion of operational employees contributed towards this achievement be an inspiring, safe place to be and for typically being male.
Our Board level including the introduction of the new How our people to realise their ambitions.
Each gender diversity increased to 22% with the 2 Standards and audit programme and employee is guided by a common purpose, appointment of Sue Clark as an additional greater uptake of the contribution to our vision and our values which are female Non-executive Director.
integrated into our people processes and Additionally, the infrastructure investment programmes, including our performance, projects in GB have been instrumental in Human rights reward and talent programme Growth, introducing the highest levels of safety performance, success.
Our human rights policy is set out in our possible for our plant and machinery.
Ethical Business Policy which is available at We measure our overall employee www.
com sustainable-business Accident frequency rate engagement through the Great Place to resources.
This applies to our employees, 4 Work survey, which allows all our people to our suppliers and partners and anyone anonymously feedback their views.
This is working on behalf of our business.
It covers 3.47 3 3.24 our fourth year of completing the survey bribery and corruption, conducting business and we continue to make progress in 2.67 with respect, integrity and equality and 2 making Britvic a great place to work.
This managing personal activities and interests.
It year we achieved a Trust Index score of also covers responsible trading and sets out 1 72% with an 86% response rate.
our standards regarding human rights, 0 health & safety and environmental 2014 2015 2016 Learning and development responsibilities and what we expect of our suppliers and other trading partners, which We are committed to nurturing and growing Accident severity rate are monitored through our responsible our employees at all levels, enabling them 0.2 sourcing programme.
to lead Britvic into the future.
We encourage 0.182 them to own and grow their careers within We run a confidential whistle blowing hotline 0.15 Britvic.
We continue to run an extensive for anyone who is concerned about a 0.13 learning and development curriculum, 0.1 breach of the policy.
0.098 which offers all employees the chance to All our employees are trained and required 0.05 improve their core business skills and to complete an on-line test to ensure managers the opportunity to enhance compliance with the policy.
0 their management skills, through on-line 2014 2015 2016 and face to face training.
We also run programmes tailored to the needs of specific areas of the business.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 25 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 25 13 12 2016 18:59 Average number of Average number of days lost 1,000 hrs worked accidents 100,0000 hrs worked Strategic report Sustainable business review continued Climate change Communication and Supporting our communities Climate change is one of the biggest engagement We recognise the importance of supporting challenges we face and society is already our local communities and this year our Engagement with our employees is a priority beginning to experience its impacts - charitable contributions were valued at for us and we keep people informed about socially, economically and ecologically.
This included volunteering our business, its performance and things time, matched funding, payroll giving, Through our investments in new, more that affect them through a variety of drinks donations and our monthly efficient technology we endeavour to channels.
These included, our company employee lottery.
reduce our emissions in the long term, intranet, Teamlink our monthly digital however this year our carbon emissions In GB our employees participated in our update and Teamtalk our regular face to increased relative to production.
This Rowed to Rio fundraising challenge, face meetings led by senior management.
increase was caused by the infrastructure collectively covering a total of 9962 miles Our quarterly magazine, Zest, is available investment works underway that and raising money for our charity partner to all employees.
increased our energy consumption at our Sported, a charity aimed at supporting We have well established Employee over 3,000 local sports clubs.
The Wildlife manufacturing sites by 3.4% across the Trust also became our charity partner in Involvement Forums in GB and Ireland as business.
We are confident however that 2016 and our employees have been well as the Britvic Group Forum with the investments will see a significant volunteering at their local Wildlife Nature nominated employee representatives who improvement in our energy and Reserves, helping protect nature whilst ensure that employees views are taken subsequent carbon footprint going also building stronger relationships within into account regarding issues that are forward.
Our new production line at their teams.
Where the group has Leeds, for example, uses 41% less entered into a recognition agreement with In Ireland we launched our employee electricity than older lines.
volunteering policy, enabling employees to a trade union, it fulfils its obligations to We continued to offset our GB business take 2 days paid leave to volunteer.
travel emissions through the hours of volunteering took place this year CarbonNeutral certification scheme as a result of the introduction of this new Sharing in success supporting a fide-forestation project in the policy, supporting charities close to our We monitor our total pay and benefits Amazon rainforest.
This project works employees hearts.
offering as part of our reward philosophy with local communities to help preserve which is based on delivering competitive Reducing resource use the biodiversity of this area of global salaries and benefits, performance-related significance.
Protecting the environment and the natural bonus and share ownership opportunities.
resources on which we depend is critical The table below sets out the quantities of In a number of our markets, pay for large to our business success.
We manage our greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of populations of our employees is determined environmental impacts by focusing on those carbon dioxide equivalent CO e for the 2 with trade union representatives on the we can control, namely energy and its 53 weeks ended 2 October 2016.
The associated carbon emissions, water use basis of fair terms and conditions for all table also contains last years emissions and packaging.
Minimising our impact on members.
Please note these resources helps us control operating Management pay and bonuses are linked the reporting scope changed this year as costs and helps build a resilient to business performance and their personal we have included Brazil in our competitive business.
We have also provided Water use also receive annual awards of long-term performance excluding Brazil to allow for Responsible water use continues to be a incentives to directly align their packages year-on-year comparison.
concern across the world with increasing with sustainable shareholder creation.
Pay numbers of people without access to We have reported on all of the emission outs under these plans depends on Britvics clean water.
We recognise we have a sources required under the Companies performance over a three year period.
responsibility to manage our water use Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Wealso provide competitive pension and prudently and this year we successfully Reports Regulations 2013.
Emissions healthcare benefits in addition to statutory reduced our water intensity ratio by 1.5% outside of our responsibility, including arrangements.
to 1.9 across our European manufacturing shared office locations and those sites, meaning for every litre of soft drink originating from our contract packers and we produce we use 1.9 litres of water.
We franchise partners, have been omitted have a 2020 ambition to reach a water from our disclosure.
We have used the intensity ratio of 1.4.
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors 2016 for this years calculations.
26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 26 13 12 2016 18:59 Strategic report Sustainable business review continued 2014-2015 Emissions 2015-2016 Emissions Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 CO e emissions 53,673 70,587 2 54,466 excluding Brazil Emissions from: Scope 1: Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities 16,963 31,129 17,115 excluding Brazil 36,710 39,457 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for our own use 37,351 excluding Brazil Intensity measure: Scope 1 & 2 emissions reported above normalised 28.7 Tonnes 34.1 Tonnes to per thousand tonne of product output CO e 1000Tonne produced CO e 1000Tonne produced 2 2 28.9 Tonnes CO e 1000 2 Tonne excluding Brazil Notes: 1.
Emissions relate to those generated by our manufacturing and distribution sites in GB, Ireland, France and Brazil only.
Emissions outside of our responsibility and under the control of a third party have been excluded.
Previously reported Scope 1 & 2 emissions have been updated to reflect a change in boundary offices removed to reflect our operational control reporting responsibility Packaging Over the past 3 years we have been A closure system using similar wood fibre Packaging is an essential component of working in partnership with Innovate UK based material has also been demonstrated.
our products and we take our responsibility and the UK based SME, Natural Resources This new technology has the potential to to produce packaging with minimal 2000 Limited NRL, on a new sustainable significantly reduce the environmental environmental impact very seriously.
packaging technology that could impact of packaging as the materials are Our approach focuses on transforming, revolutionise packaging across multiple sustainably sourced, renewable and fully innovating, reducing and optimising the sectors.
This year, we have reached a proof recyclable and the forming process use of materials we use.
In order to do of principle milestone on developing a requires less energy to produce a bottle this we have been developing a tool to viable bottle from sustainable wood fibres.
Further measure the environmental impact of our The technology platform, using patented work is underway to bring this technology packaging formats and will be integrating pending moulding and processing to market as part of our sustainable its consideration within our packaging techniques, has been producing bottles packaging strategy.
