STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Energy Supply & Services UK & Ireland Supplying energy and services to residential and business customers inthe UK and the Republic of Ireland through our newbusiness segments: UK Home, UK Business and Ireland.
HIGHLIGHTS UK Home customer accounts 21.8m UK Business customer accounts 0.72m Ireland customer accounts 0.69m 36 ENERGY SUPPLY&SERVICES The number of energy supply customer UK & IRELAND account holdings reduced by 409,000 or3% in 2016 including the impact of a significant We made good progress in implementing roll-off of long-term fixed price contracts in H1 our customer-facing strategy in the UK and 2016.
However, it was broadly flat in H2 2016, Ireland during 2016.
We have established despite higher market churn rates, reflecting Energy supply complaints down anew customer-centric operating model as the launch ofnew competitively priced we reposition the business beyond energy customer offers and British Gas having one supply, enabling us to broaden and deepen 31% of the lowest standard variable tariff prices the relationship with the customer in their in the market following a 5% reduction home.
Our strategy recognises customers are UK Home brand NPS up inour residential gas tariff in March.
The more empowered, with increased demand for number of services product holdings fell by technology-enabled service and integrated 3% in 2016, reflecting the ongoing market 10 points devices.
Against this backdrop, we are trend for customers using on-demand and focused on improving customer satisfaction, home emergency services, although the enhancing our range of innovative products rate of loss was much reduced in the and solutions, and delivering cost efficiencies.
compared to 2015 andoperating costs second half with targeted offers helping Our efficiency programme enables us to returned to pre-implementation levels.
We have prioritise our resources to defend and grow Following investigations by Ofgem into the developed a technology-led on-demand our core energy and services activities and impact of the transition to a new IT system proposition, Local Heroes, which leverages invest in new growth opportunities.
During on business customers, and into the roll-out our engineer base as well as providing the year we restructured our UK energy of advanced meters for certain categories access to local tradesmen backed by a andservices businesses to create two new ofbusiness customers, we have agreed British Gas guarantee.
Across both energy business units, UK Home and UK Business, topay 14 million in total in redress and services, a greater focus on and and two operating functions, Customer distributed across affected micro-business understanding of customer preferences and Operations and Field Operations.
This customers, the charity Money Advice Trust, more sophisticated customer segmentation hasenabled us to realise scale benefits which provides a business debt line is enabling us to develop more targeted from common processes and develop serviceto helpcustomers in need, and to offers as we focus increasingly on asegmented customer approach and fund energy efficiency advice and related customervalue.
We have now activities through the Carbon Trust.
We continue to lead the industry in consolidated operations into fewer sites Collecting customer debt resulting from thesmart meter roll-out, having installed andstreamlined our sales channels and thebilling issues was a key area of focus 3.3million todate.
Smart meters will bring services product lines and reflecting this, throughout the year and, as a result, adjusted significant benefits to customers, with an direct like-for-like headcount reduced by operating cash flow was 418 million end toestimated bills and a greater ability nearly 3,000 during 2016.
This resulted compared toa cash outflow of 132 million tomonitor and reduce consumption helping inredundancy costs, which contributed in2015.
Customer account holdings fell by improve customer engagement.
Utilising towards the Groups 228 million exceptional 6%in2016, as we focused on rebuilding smart meter technology, we launched restructuring costs, the majority of which our reputation in the UK business market ourHomeEnergy FreeTime tariff in June, were incurred in UK Home.
In addition, and our retention activities on higher offering free electricity to customers on wemade changes to pension terms with valueSME customers.
UK Business also either a Saturdayor Sunday.
our employees, with the vast majority voting continues tosupport the fide&P business to accept theproposals.
These actions, UK Home adjusted operating profit fell 8% inthe development of energy insights combined with afocus on discretionary to 810 million, which includes energy supply andsolutions for our customers.
expenditure and a normalisation of UK operating profit of 553 million, down 11%.
Business costs, meanttotal like-for-like IRELAND Thisreduction in energy supply profitability controllable costs fellby 7% compared Our Irish business, Bord Gis Energy, reflects a changing product mix and lower to2015 while our costper UK home delivered a strong result in 2016.
Customer customer account holdings partially offset customer fell by 1%.
service levels improved with complaints by efficiency benefits.
However, adjusted down reflecting investment in customer operating cash flow increased significantly UK HOME agent training and Brand NPS increasing due to strong working capital management.
Against a competitive backdrop, excellent 1 to 20.
We also delivered 4% growth in customer service is a core requisite for UK BUSINESS customer accounts, which reflected our retaining and winning new customers.
UK Business returned to profitability in competitive pricing position resulting from During the year we took actions to improve 2016following an operating loss in 2015, areduction in gas and electricity prices employee training, pro-actively re-assessed with billing issues associated with the forcustomers in Q4 of 2016. direct debit payments, implemented a more migration ofcustomer accounts and customer friendly moving home process Adjusted operating profit and adjusted associated data on to a new billing and andimproved call scripts.
This all led to operating cash flow were significantly CRM system from multiple legacy systems lower complaints in both energy supply higherthan in 2015, with H2 2016 profit now fully resolved.
Billing accuracy and andservices, and Brand NPS improved higher than H2 2015 including a strong timeliness are now significantly better than by10 points to move into positive territory operational performance in energy under the old systems, and as a result, at 3.
Engineer NPS remains high at 69. supplyand generation and trading.
complaints fell byaround aquarter 1 Based on NPS relating to residential customersatisfaction.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Energy Supply & Services North America Supplying energy and services to residential and business customers in NorthAmerica through our new business segments: NorthAmerica Home and North America Business.
HIGHLIGHTS North America Home customer accounts 3.8m North America Business customer accounts 0.59m 38 ENERGY SUPPLY & SERVICES NORTHAMERICA We made good progress in implementing ourNorth America strategy in 2016, as welook to build on our market leading North America Home: Brand NPS consumer and business positions.
As in overthe year was theUK and Ireland, our focus remains onimproving customer satisfaction levels, enhancing our range of innovative products 32 and solutions and delivering cost efficiencies.
Overall, North America profitability was down The number of paid annuity contracts 3%compared to 2015 and down 17% on grew by 9%, with increased conversion alocal currency basis after normalising for from trial to paid contracts.
the effects of foreign exchange movements.
Excellent customer service is a core requisite forretaining and winning new customers in This reflected the impact that warm weather NorthAmerica.
9% inH1 2016 had on consumption and in reducing spot optimisation opportunities from our natural gas pipeline and storage capacity contracts.
However, H2 2016 customer account holdings fell by 13%, We also continued to invest in our systems, adjusted operating profit was significantly asanumber of trial offers came to an end.
helping to improve efficiency and delivering higher than both H1 2016 and H2 2015, However increased conversion from trial efficiencies.
Reflecting all this, complaints withthe realisation of higher B2B forward topaid contracts resulted in a 9% increase fell by 21% while Brand NPS improved net margin under contract, improved solar in the number of more valuable paid from 20 in 2015 to 31 in 2016. performance and cost efficiencies.
Total gas consumption was broadly flat NORTH AMERICA HOME Our efficiency programme is key to andelectricity consumption was down 4% Excellent customer service is a core  position and compared to 2015, reflecting the warmer requisite for retaining and winning new servingour customers more effectively.
weather, partially offset by a slight shift in residential customers.
During the year we Thecombination of our residential energy customer mix towards higher consuming made good progress, implementing user and services activities to create the customers.
We continue to build on our interface enhancements for our customer NorthAmerica Home business unit has position as the largest C&I gas supplier in care agents, providing additional training ledto synergies from simplification, more the North East of the United States, as we forboth customer care and sales agents effective and efficient sales channel use look to increase our brand awareness and and introducing new service channels andreductions inheadcount.
In addition, develop innovative offers.
We are focused including social media and online chat.
we simplified ourservices business with on developing a range of products targeted Thiscontributed to a 47% reduction in thedivestment of two small non-core at different customer segments, delivering energy supply complaints while Brand businesses, Airtron Canada and Airco tailored offerings for larger businesses and NPSover the year was 32.
We have also repositioned our simpler digital offers for small and medium solar business to make it more efficient, sized customers.
We remain focused on continuing to improve restructuring our operations, streamlining the sustainability of the business through We will also continue working closely sales processes and closing a number offer differentiation and innovative customer withour international fide&P business, with ofloss-making offices in non-core markets.
This includes the bundling of Direct Energy the key channel for the sale Cost per Home account increased by products, with 21% of energy sales being ofPanoramic Powers wireless energy 3%compared to 2015, primarily reflecting bundled with one or more otherproducts, management solution to both new and thelower customer account holdings.
such as a protection plan orsmart thermostat.
The number of licences In November, welaunched bundled energy North America Home adjusted operating deployed for Direct Energy customers and Hive connected home tariffs in Texas, profit increased 21% to 93 million, or increased threefold in 2016 in comparison the US North East and Alberta, and a full 6%on a local currency basis, reflecting to2015, with sales to a diverse range of launch is planned in H12017.
improved unit margins in energy resulting customers including retailers, manufacturers, from our focus on customer value and cinemas and healthcare providers.
We are also looking to expand into new growth in our annuity business.
Adjusted geographies as opportunities open up North America Business adjusted operating operating cash flow was down 8%, andduring the year we started providing profit was down 10%, or 24% on a constant reflecting the impact of weather on energyin New Hampshire and Rhode currency basis, and adjusted operating cash workingcapital.
Island, while we opened 78 new services flow was down 16% compared to 2015. franchise territories.
Energy customer NORTH AMERICA BUSINESS Thispredominantly reflects warmer weather retention improved by 3ppt, howeverthe in 2016, which impacted consumption and Customer satisfaction and retention remaina total number of energy supply customer imbalance charges and limited the potential key focus in our B2B business.
During the year accounts fell by 136,000 in 2016, reflecting for spot optimisation profit from our natural we launched a number ofnew operational our decisions to stop door-to-door sales in gas pipeline and wholesale power contracts.
processes to enhance the experience for our Texas and wind down our customer base customers, including improving the timeliness inOntario, as we focus on the higher value of generating a quote and engaging earlier customer segments and regions.
Services with the customer prior to contract renewal.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Connected Home In Connected Home, our Hive smart thermostat and other services help our customers manage their energy use in theUK, the Republic of Ireland, Canada and the United States.
Weplan to build aglobal business providing new and innovative solutions for consumers across the world.
READ MORE ON PAGES 22 AND 23 HIGHLIGHTS Cumulative hubs installed 527,000 New products launched 5 40 CONNECTED HOME In H1 2016 we also launched Boiler IQ, ourinnovative connected boiler proposition Connected Home is one of our focus and first subscription-based product, areasfor growth and we have brought whichuses sensors to remotely diagnose together our existing expertise in the faults, creating a unique experience for UKandNorth America to create a global services contract customers.
We have now business unit.
Connected Home products installed around 30,000 Boiler IQ devices, are an important source of differentiation with very positive feedback.
We also continue when linked to energy and services to integrate our Hive product range with other products for residential customers, helping eco-systems and in H2 2016 we partnered drive engagement and brand awareness with Amazon Echo, as smart home launch and enabling us to broaden and deepen the partner in the UK, allowing our Hive customer relationship, as well as providing customers to control their heating, lighting growth opportunities in their own right.
and plugged-in devices simply by speaking OurConnected Home customer offer is through the Alexa voice assistant.
In addition, being developed around three categories: our energy insight products, My Energy peace of mind, home energy management, inthe UK and Direct Your Energy in and home automation.
NorthAmerica, are now available to more Customers love our Hive products so much that We already have strong capabilities, than 3.6 million customers.
they are keen to share their stories.
including ownership of our proprietary In 2017, we will continue to invest in Connected Home platform acquired through READ MORE ON PAGES 22 AND 23 thebusiness.
We will look to expand the the AlertMe acquisition in 2015.
We are well Hive product range, including the launch placed to compete in this space, with our ofa water leak detection product enabled existing customer base in the UK, Ireland by the acquisition of Flowgem in H2 2016, and North America providing a strong and drive sales of Hive products in North initialroute to market.
We will also look for opportunities connected hubs cumulatively by the end toexpand into new geographies where of2016, with the number of hubs installed wedont currently serve customers and inH2 2016 more than double the number build new partnerships across further installed in H1 2016.
During the year geographies and channels.
In addition we welaunched four new Connected Home willlook to move towards a subscription products in the Hive range: the Active Plug, based commercial model, and have Window and Door Sensor, Motion Sensor, alreadylaunched a number of trial offers and Active Lights.
We have also redesigned inthe UK.
our products for non-UK markets and weare now selling Hive products in Connected Home reported a 74% increase NorthAmerica, with plans for a full launch, ingross revenue in 2016, reflecting the including the Hive smart thermostat, in H1 increase in the installation of Hive hubs 2017.
In total we sold over 450,000 Hive andproduct sales.
However, the business products in 2016, more than three times reported an adjusted operating loss and Our energy insight products, My Energy in the UK theamount sold in 2015. negative adjusted operating cash flow, andDirect Your Energy in North America, arenow available to more than 3.6 million customers.
reflectinginvestment in infrastructure, product development and capability tosupport business growth.
Our connected home customer offer is being developed around three categories peace ofmind, home energy management and homeautomation.
READ MORE ON PAGE 10 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Distributed Energy & Power We are an international business inwhich we develop integrated energysolutions for commercial and industrial customers, including flexible generation, energy management systems and battery storage.
We help our customers take control and turn their energy into an opportunity.
READ MORE ON PAGES 12 TO 15 HIGHLIGHTS Flexible distributed energy capacity undermanagement 543MW Active customer sites 3,924 Panoramic Power sensors deployed 40,000 42 DISTRIBUTED ENERGY & POWER under management, which has fallen by 3% over the past 12 months reflecting market Distributed Energy & Power fide&P is one changes in H1 2016 that limited the ofour focus areas for growth.
Reflecting eligibilityof some diesel generation in this, we have established a new international theNorth American market, however, business unit, bringing together expertise itincreased by 5% in H2 2016.
In March from our UK business services and power weclosed the Killingholme gas fired generation activities and our North America powerstation following completion of business division.
Our existing capabilities, itswinter 2015 16 SBR contract, with the together with the combined heat and power asset having become uneconomic due CHP capabilities obtained through the toits age and prevailing market conditions.
149 million acquisition of ENER-G Cogen The Killingholme site was sold in in May 2016, provide us with the base to December2016.
capitalise on the global trend towards distributed energy.
Our distributed energy We also announced plans to build new offer is being developed around three distributed power assets, having been categories: energy insights, energy awarded 15-year contracts in the 2020 21 optimisation, and energy solutions.
capacity market auction for two new fast-response 50MW distributed gas fired The ENER-G Cogen integration has been assets at Brigg and Peterborough and a proceeding to plan and we are now able 49MW battery storage project at Roosecote.
tooffer both off-the-shelf and bespoke We will run these plants alongside end-to-end CHP solutions for B2B customers, customer-owned assets to optimise them from initial design through to installation, ENER-G Cogen as part of a wider portfolio.
In December operation and maintenance, complementing We acquired ENER-G Cogen in May 2016 weannounced a pioneering trial to develop enhancing our CHP capabilities.
Centricas existing capability in installing and alocal energy market in Cornwall, which managing distributed systems.
The business willsee the development of a virtual operates primarily inthe UK, but also has marketplace and the installation of new operations in NorthAmerica, Hungary, technology in over 150 homes and Italyand the Netherlands.
The programme will test the added capacity, under contract, of over use of flexible demand, generation and 500MW across 1,400 CHP units.
storage, allowing participants to sell flexible The acquisition of ENER-G Cogen fits energy capacity to both the grid and the alongside the 2015 acquisition of Panoramic wholesale energy market, rewarding Power, and with the Energy Marketing & localpeople and businesses for being Trading acquisition of Neas Energy adding moreflexible.
enhanced energy optimisation capability, Total gross revenue increased by 69% we have a good core of experience and to161 million and secured revenue expertise, and the range of products increasedto321 million, predominantly tocreate a compelling customer offer.
Barry, Brigg and Peterborough were all reflecting theENER-G Cogen acquisition.
During2016 we saw further growth in sales awardedone year capacity contracts in the fide&P reportedan adjusted operating ofour energy insights product, developed EarlyCapacity Auction.
lossof 26 million and negative adjusted byPanoramic Power, and have now operating cash flow of 15 million in deployed nearly 40,000 sensors in total 2016, with continued low returns from the withH2 2016 sales up 65% compared peakingplants and a focuson investments toH12016.
tobuild its distributed energy capability.
The fide&P segment also includes our However, the loss was lower thanin 2015, smaller operating gas fired peaking primarily reflecting the closureof the plantsatBarry, Brigg and Peterborough.
Killingholme plant and additional STOR Peterborough and Barry have Short Term andSBR revenue across our peaking plants, Operating Reserve STOR contracts as well as an initialcontribution from untilMarch 2018, while the 99MW Brigg ENER-G Cogen.
plant continues to operate as a distributed generation asset.
All three plants were awarded one year capacity contracts starting in October 2017 in the Early Capacity Auction.
Brigg capacity is included within our total flexible distributed energy capacity Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Energy Marketing & Trading Operating in UK and European energymarkets, we provide risk management and wholesale market access for customers and across theGroup.
We have a strengthening global presence in LNG.
HIGHLIGHTS Adjusted operating profit 161m Neas Energy serves customers with installed capacity of approximately 8,600MW 44 ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING atthe Isle of Grain Terminal in the UK fromApril 2019.
We also entered into a new Energy Marketing & Trading EM&T five-year supply agreement with Qatargas providesrisk management and wholesale for the purchase of up to two million tonnes market access for the Group.
During the per annum of LNG, which will start in year we continued tobuild onour strong January 2019 following the expiry of our cross-commodity trading capabilities, existing contract with Qatargas.
In October, madegood progress inexpanding our we signed aseven-year agreement with routeto market offer forcustomers and GasLog Ltd tocharter a new build LNG strengthened our globalpresence in carrier, starting in 2019.
The agreement is liquefied natural gas LNG.
expected to coincide with first commercial In October, we completed the 210 million delivery of our US export supply contract acquisition of Denmark based Neas Energy, with Cheniere.
one of Europes leading providers ofrisk EM&T continues to have a number of management and revenue optimisation flexiblegas contracts, the profit and cash services for decentralised thirdparty owned flow from which will vary between periods assets.
Neas Energy serves customers who based on the commodity price environment own 2,500 individual decentralised assets, and decisions we take to optimise these including wind farms, solar plants and CHP contracts to maximise value.
Some of plants with a combined installed capacity thesecontracts are take or pay, where ofapproximately 8,600MW.
In addition, the thepayments are made for gas even if transaction brings an enhanced technology delivery is deferred to future periods.
The platform and strengths in energy analytics.
commodity price environment provided Neas Energy operates predominantly in opportunities for us to optimise these Denmark, the UK, Germany and Sweden, contracts and associated hedges during and the business model is complementary H22016 and the contracts overall were toCentricas existing UK-based EM&T profitable for the full year, having been activities.
The acquisition enables Centrica loss-making in H1 2016.
This optimisation tomaterially accelerate its route to market strategy was value-accretive in total, strategy across Europe, while also improving the 2016 result, while reducing strengthening the optimisation activity Neas Energy our2017 expectation from these contracts.
The business We acquired Neas Energy, one of Europes leading Overall, EM&T adjusted operating profit providers of risk management and revenue has performed well since acquisition, optimisation services for decentralised third-party morethan doubled to 161 million, making a strong initial contribution to owned assets.
reflecting strong trading performance, adjusted operating profit and cash flow.
theoptimisation of flexible gas contracts EM&T continues to enhance its global between 201516 and 201617, andthe presence in LNG.
During 2016 we signed strong initial contribution from theNeas aMemorandum of Understanding with Energy acquisition.
Adjusted operating Tokyo Gas Co Ltd, Japans largest natural cashflow fell 20% reflecting thetiming gas utility, to optimise contracted volumes ofinternal tax payments andmovements from both Atlantic and Asia-Pacific markets inworkingcapital.
We announced afive year Sales and Purchase Agreement with Japanese utility JERA, the worlds largest buyer of LNG, under which we will purchase up to six cargoes per annum We have a strengthening global presence in LNG.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Exploration & Production Targeting production of between40to50 million barrels of oil equivalentper year focused ontheUK, the Netherlands andNorway.
HIGHLIGHTS Total gas and liquids production 71.2mmboe Unit lifting and other cash production 1 costs reduced 19% to 10.1 boe Free cash flow 166m 46 EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION In November, we announced the disposal ofour remaining portfolio of gas assets We made good progress in 2016 in inTrinidad and Tobago for $30 million transitioning to a sustainable Exploration 24million.
The assets consist of 17.3% &Production E&P business producing interest in the producing NCMA-1 block between 4050mmboe per annum and and80% and 90% operated interests focused on the UK, Netherlands and Norway.
respectively in the undeveloped blocks Capital expenditure reduced to within our NCMA-4 and Block 22.
Centrica will targeted 400 million600 million range, receivefurther payments subject to Block we announced the sale of ourportfolio 22andNCMA-4 reaching agreed project ofassets in Trinidad and Tobago and we milestones.
The transaction is expected continue to work on the divestment of toclose in H1 2017 and an exceptional ourCanadian E&P assets.
pre-tax write back of 56 million has been Total gas and liquids production of recognised in the 2016 financial results.
71.2mmboe was down 9% compared to Wesold our other assets in the region, 2015.
Production in Europe was down 8%, Blocks 1a and 1b, in April.
We also with the positive impact of consistent disposed of our interests in the Skene performance in Norway, and the completion andBuckland oil and gas assets in the of a number of infill drilling projects at the UKNorth Sea for 10 million in H1 2016, Kvitebjrn Kvitebjrn and Statfjord fields more than which resulted in a 50 million exceptional Further infill wells are planned at Kvitebjrn field offset by natural portfolio decline, and a which is situated in block 34 11 oftheTampen area gain on disposal.
Reflecting these disposals, longer than expected maintenance outage in the North Sea, Norway.
production during the yearand positive atthe Morecambe asset.
Production revisions in Norway, E&Pproven and intheAmericas was down 12% reflecting probable 2P reserves were 474mmboe significantly reduced drilling activity and some atthe end of 2016. shut-ins of producing fields for economic The business delivered very strong cost reasons in the low gas price environment.
Unit Capital expenditure was down 28% to 1 lifting and other cash production costs were 518million.
This included spend on the 15% lower in Europe and 39% lower in the Cygnus project, which delivered first Americas, despite reduced production, commercial gas in December 2016, and andtotal lifting and other cash production production from the asset is expected to costs were 352 million or 33% lower when ramp up towards peak production during compared to a 2014 baseline.
It also included spend on a fourth the absorption of incremental costs from production well at the York field, which new projects such as Valemon.
We have failedto deliver commercial volumes owing delivered initiatives across all our assets to Cygnus toreservoir quality issues.
The well was make these savings, including supply chain At the end of 2016, the first gas flowed from Cygnus, shut-in, resulting in a pre-tax impairment improvements and collaboration with other the UK North Seas largest producing gas field.
of63 million being reported in adjusted operators to drive efficiency.
There was limited exploration alsomoved the organisation from a regional drilling activity in Europe in 2016. to an asset-based structure, reducing duplication and enabling reductions in We continue to focus our investment on headcount across all levels.
themost attractive development options inour portfolio.
The Maria project remains Adjusted operating cash flow fell 17% on track to produce first oil in 2018, with compared to 2015, to 655 million, with drilling operations scheduled to begin in 2017. materially lower cash production costs, We also made a positive final investment working capital management and benefits decision on the Centrica-operated Oda field from the phasing of tax payments only in the Norwegian North Sea.
Centrica has partially offsetting the impact of lower a40% interest in the field and its share of commodity prices, reduced benefits from capital expenditure is expected to be around historic hedges and lower production.
200 million, with estimated development However, including the impact of reduced costs having reduced by more than 40% capital expenditure and some small disposals over the past two years.
Production is the business generated 166 million of scheduled to start in 2019.
In addition, freecash flow in 2016, higher than in further infill wellsare planned for Statfjord 2015despite thelower commodity price and Kvitebjrn in 2017.
Adjusted operating profit discovery was announced at Valemon West, increased by 97%to 187 million, in which Centrica owns a 13% interest.
whichreflects lower costs and reduced Centricas share of reserves isestimated depreciation resulting from the impairment 1 Lifting and other cash production costs are at2.46.3mmboe and production is ofassets at the end of2015.
totaloperating costs and cost of sales excluding expectedto start later in Q1 2017. depreciation and amortisation, dry hole costs, exploration costs and profits on disposal.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Central Power Generation We are rationalising our thermal powergeneration portfolio with aviewto simplification and cost reduction while retaining low costoptionality.
HIGHLIGHTS Best performance of nuclear since acquisition our share of generation volume was 13.
0 T Wh CCGT Reliability 89% 48 CENTRAL POWER GENERATION We have now completed our exit from windpower generation, in line with In 2016 we made significant progress thestrategy set out in July 2015.
In H1 inimproving operational efficiency and 2016wedisposed of a 50% share in the reshaping our centralised power portfolio, 220MWGLID joint venture, resulting in inline with our strategy to focus on cashproceeds to Centrica of 116 million growthin distributed generation.
and an exceptional gain on disposal of Gas fired generation volumes were 65% 73million.
InFebruary 2017 we disposed higher in 2016 than in 2015, with improved ofour remaining offshore windfarm, plant reliability and power market tightness Lincs, resulting in cash proceeds to in H2 2016 resulting in higher load factors Centricaof 224 million.
Generation from from our Langage and South Humber Bank ourshare of wind assets was 39% lower power stations and higher volumes from than 2015, reflecting the GLID disposal theSpalding tolling arrangement.
The three andlowerwind speeds affecting Lincs.
plants were awarded one-year agreements Central Power Generation adjusted in the 2020 21 capacity market auction operating profit reduced by 41% heldin December 2016, and in the 2017 18 comparedto2015.
Adjusted Early Capacity Auction held in January 2017, operatingcashflowwas marginally Langage andall now have contracts for four years Langage in Devon is the Groups latest gas fired negative, reflecting alower power price starting in October 2017.
We were also station, which was completed in 2010. environment for much ofthe year and awarded a 15-year contract starting in reduced benefit from historichedging, October 2020 at the 370MW CCGT at and51 million repayments in 2016 Kings Lynn, which had previously ofamountsowed by the Group to beenmothballed.
Our share of nuclear generation volumes wasup 7% to 13.0TWh, the highest outputsince we purchased our interest in thefleet in 2009.
This reflected excellent operational performance, with limited unplanned outages, and the impact of a return to full service of three of the four reactors that had been operating at reduced temperatures following the identification of an issue on one boiler spine at Heysham 1 in 2014.
Following the completion of further work at Heysham 1, Reactor 1, load has South Humber Bank Gas fired generation volumes were 65% higher in now been raised and the unit is now able 2016 than in 2015, with improved plant reliability.
tooperate at up to 87.5%, compared to 75% previously.
All of the nuclear reactors inwhich we own an interest were awarded one-year capacity agreements starting inOctober 2020 and were also successful inthe Early Capacity Auction, meaning all now have contracts for four years in total starting in October 2017.
Nuclear We have a 20% interest in eight nuclear power stations generating electricity to the grid in the UK.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Business Review Centrica Storage The Group operates the Roughgasstorage facility, which is a strategic storage asset for the UK.
HIGHLIGHTS Limited stock in Rough for the first part of2016 was 3336TWh 50 CENTRICA STORAGE During 2016, the issues with the Rough storage asset resulted in customers being Seasonal gas price spreads remained at unable to use the SBU capacity they had historic low levels through much of 2016, previously purchased.
Reflecting this, with a continued abundance of flexible Centrica Storage agreed with its customers supply across Europe.
Reflecting this, to buy back unusable capacity during itwasannounced in April that all Standard H22016.
In December, Centrica Storage Bundled Units SBUs for the2016 17 launched a consultation regarding an storage year had been sold at15.4 pence, application to Ofgem to reduce the minimum significantly lower than the 21.1 pence Rough capacity for the 2017 18 storage achieved in2015 16 and the lowest price year, to avoid being required to sellmore since Centrica acquired the asset in 2002. capacity than Rough can physically deliver.
Following the identification of a potential Gross revenue fell to 93 million, down technical issue in March 2015, the maximum 40%compared to 2015, reflecting the operating pressure of the Rough wells reduced capacity at Rough during H1 2016, remained limited to 3,000 psi during H1 the cessation of injection and withdrawal 2016, which limited the stock in Rough operations during H2 2016 and low to33-36TWh.
The highest level reached seasonal gas price spreads.
This includes Easington terminal in2014 was 41.1TWh.
As a responsible The Easington terminal processes gas from the slightly higher revenue from the sale of operator, and given the age of the field Rough gas storage facility.
cushion gas, following consent from andinstallation, Centrica Storage decided theOiland Gas Authority to increase the to take the prudent step to test and verify reservoir size of Rough by approximately the operating parameters of the Rough 4.5TWh in July 2015.
Following a change to the Rough by 22% largely due to increased maintenance Undertakings, Centrica Storage was able expenditure, as well as costs relating to toreduce the number of SBUs itsold for lower asset availability and managing the the2016 17 storage year to 340 million, reservoir at lower pressure.
Reflecting from455 million in 2015 16, to reflect this, Centrica Storage reported an adjusted theimpactof the reduced maximum operating lossof 52 million compared operatingpressure.
Adjusted In June, Centrica Storage identified an operating cash flowwas an outflow of additional issue on one of the Rough wells 49million compared to an inflow of and as a consequence ceased all injection 112million in 2015, which includes the and withdrawal operations pending further impactof a higher volume of Centrica testing in relation to the issue.
In July, it was Storage operational gas in the reservoir announced that tests on the affected well atthe end of 2016. had identified further uncertainties in the A pre-tax exceptional charge of 176 million remaining untested wells and as a result, post-tax 144 million was recorded in Centrica Storage would continue with 2016, resulting from updated assumptions anenhanced testing programme, with onasset availability in the near term, completion expected in March to April 2017. futureexpenditure on asset integrity and As a prudent and safe operator Centrica theimpact from the permanent withdrawal Storage extended the cessation of injection ofthe 47 8A installation from service, and withdrawal operations, although whichwas announced in September.
wasable to return 20 wells to service for withdrawal operations in December 2016, intimefor the majority of the winter 2016 17 withdrawal season.
In February 2017, Centrica Storage announced that although it expected to complete the testing programme on all 24wells at Rough by the end of April 2017, Rough will not be available for injection operations until at least the end of June2017, as test results are evaluated.
Returning the asset to injection operations Rough in2017 remains subject to the successful The Rough gas storage facility is the largest in the UK, able to meet approximately 10% of the UKs completion of the well testing and any winter peak day demand.
further works necessary to ensure Rough can be safely returned to service.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51
