Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Business review Delivering beyond expectation Broking Financial Support Research For more For more For more For more details please see details please see details please see details please see pages 22 to 28 pages 29 to 31 pages 32 to 33 pages 34 to 35 The breadth of our products and services, supported by our people and our can-do culture, means we are sector leaders in both performance and service.
Our aim is to continuously work with our clients to navigate challenges and identify opportunities together.
com Strategic report Business review continued Dry cargo 2016 was an extraordinary year in the dry cargo sector, which started with the weakest rates in recorded history Broking as the Baltic Dry Index BDI bottomed out at 290 in February.
Vessels moved into various stages of idleness and lay-up and older tonnage rushed to demolition yards, witnessing the third highest level of demolition on record.
Cash flow pressures led many owners to cancel or defer newbuilds, resulting in less than half of the Growing 2016 order book being delivered on time.
After two years of lacklustre industrial production and a decline in new housing starts, China eased volumes monetary policy which resulted in higher public investments and a recovery in the property market.
New housing starts grew for the first time in two years, driving the demand for construction and thereby The breadth of our fully integrated steelmaking raw materials.
Thermal power demand client offer combined with our has also surged and, together with Chinese coal mining cuts, created a rise in imports in what had previously geographic reach has enabled been thought of as a defunct trade.
us to grow significantly volumes Commodity prices reached multi-year lows in February, in our broking division during before rebounding to significantly higher rates by the end of the year.
The new record high rates were reinforced by the year.
the newly elected US Presidents infrastructure investment promises and the continuation of the Revenue US$ multi-billion dollar infrastructure investment in the Chinese One-Belt, One-Road initiative.
The positivity sent the BDI above 1,000 in November to a year high of 1,257 on 18 November, followed by the unwinding US$314.4m towards the traditional weaker first quarter.
Although the demand outlook remains positive for 2017, 2015: US$365.3m there is still more to contend with.
Relatively firmer rates are likely to slow down demolition activity, whilst the still Revenue equivalent 233.6m 2015: 239.5m Segment underlying profit 40.2m 2015: 49.1m Forward order book for 2017 US$112m 2016 global trade in iron ore At 31 December 2015 for 2016: US$151m 1.55bn mt Directors best estimate of deliverable forward order book FOB 22 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information substantial amounts of newbuilds yet to deliver will likely Containership capacity growth did slow significantly in push net fleet growth higher and therefore likely result in 2016, reaching not much more than 1% in the full year.
Deliveries slowed dramatically to 0.9m TEU and demolition accelerated rapidly to a new annual record of However, due to the market weakness in 2016, newbuild 0.7m TEU.
However, given the level of surplus built up in contracting slipped to the lowest levels since 2001.
A the sector in recent years, and in particular the impact of more positive rates scenario could act as a catalyst for the delivery of substantial capacity, much of it in the form additional ordering, however, for this to happen the of new megaships, the improved fundamental balance newbuild price premium over the secondhand market seen in 2016 was not enough to generate an will need to narrow considerably.
At the end of the year, 7% of Looking ahead, our base case is for seaborne trade to total fleet capacity stood idle.
The financial collapse of a increase by 3.4% and fleet growth to be slightly lower major Korean operator was a further illustration of the than this at 3.1% in 2017.
As a result, freight rates could acute distress facing the sector.
improve depending on the promptness of the fleet to Looking ahead, further improvements in fundamentals adjust to the seasonal demand increases.
Sudden still appear necessary to generate improved market acceleration in new deliveries will be less responsive than conditions.
However, pressurised earnings, financial in demolition and thereby should act as a catalyst to distress and regulatory requirements are all expected to volatility which should favour a more positive rate drive further recycling, and the ordering of newbuild environment in 2017. capacity dropped to just 0.2m TEU in 2016, a dramatic We have increased transaction volumes across all slowdown compared to recent years: the order book fell continents in the world and have continued to strengthen to 16% of fleet capacity.
Moreover, further significant our presence by recruiting and relocating key staff as steps in the consolidation of the sector have been taken appropriate.
In the final quarter we also benefited from in the form of merger and acquisition activity involving the opening of a new office in Japan.
We have made considerable progress in the last 12 Containers months with a number of key clients and, as a result of 2016 saw the container shipping sector remain, as many the consolidation within the sector, significantly increased expected, under severe pressure.
Box freight rates in volumes.
general remained weak, although by late in the year it did appear that they might be bottoming out on some trade Tankers lanes.
Against this backdrop, charter market vessel As expected, the tanker market was somewhat weaker earnings remained extremely challenged, at bottom of in 2016 after the very strong market seen in 2015, as the cycle levels.
The one year rate for a 2,750 TEU ship fleet growth took its toll.
Earnings for VLCCs, suezmaxes averaged US$6,000 per day in 2016, 27% lower than and aframaxes were each down by some 40% on the average since the start of 2009.
Old panamax types 2015s levels, however VLCC spot market earnings fared even worse, averaging US$4,979 per day in 2016, nevertheless averaged a relatively healthy US$41,000 56% down on the same basis, with the opening of the per day, in line with long-run averages.
Earnings in the new locks at the Panama Canal impacting vessel products tanker sector were also lower in 2016, with deployment patterns.
returns on key routes down by between 35% and 50% Demand conditions did however improve in 2016, with on average from the high levels seen in 2015. global volumes projected to expand by around 3% in the Rising Middle Eastern crude oil exports, coupled with very full year to 181m TEU.
Volumes on the key Far Eaststrong growth in Chinese and Indian crude imports, led to Europe trade returned to positive growth and the rate of further increases in crude tanker demand.
However the growth on the intra-Asian trades accelerated back to market suffered from disrupted Nigerian exports in the more robust levels.
However, North-South volumes and third quarter, leading to a deeper than anticipated trade into the Middle East remained under severe seasonal downturn.
In the products tanker sector trade pressure from the impact of diminished commodity growth continued, albeit at a slower pace, as an overhang prices, though volumes into the Indian Sub-Continent of products inventory weighed on the market.
Global container trade growth in Seaborne crude oil and oil products 2016, reaching 181m TEU trade in 2016 3.4% 3bn mt 23 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Both the crude and products tanker fleets grew by some Specialised products 6% in 2016.
The crude tanker fleet is expected to grow Despite limited signs of an increase on certain arterial by a further 5.1% in 2017, maintaining supply side trade lanes towards the end of 2016, the chemical pressure on earnings.
Products tanker fleet growth is tanker spot markets have softened considerably.
The expected to fall to 3.7% in 2017.
However, following Clarksons Platou Spot Chemical Index has seen a 6.9% strong fleet growth in 2015 and 2016, supply side decline year-on-year whilst the Edible Oils Index is pressure will likely remain in this sector.
Earnings continue to remain levels of tanker ordering in 2016 point to reduced under pressure and are significantly lower than seen in deliveries from 2018 and recent regulatory developments 2015.
The delta between owners and charterers ideas may accelerate removals of older tonnage.
has grown considerably into the second half of 2016, and, as such, deal volume on the period charter and Oil production cuts from both OPEC and non-OPEC asset markets has been lacklustre for the latter part of countries seem likely to compound the strong crude the year.
The cuts may be partially offset by additional cargo from Nigeria and Libya, which Overall trade volume growth in specialised products has are exempt from OPECs agreement, and Brazil may also been robust throughout 2016.
That said, sentiment has raise exports.
Uncertainty over compliance with been weak for the second half due primarily to petroleum production cuts and instability in some producing products market dynamics and also the hangover from countries means there is potential for unexpected the El Nino weather phenomenon and its impact on increases or decreases in crude tanker demand through palm oil trade.
Overall seaborne trade is estimated to 2017.
In the US, higher oil prices resulting from the have gained 2.3% year-on-year in 2016, to 283m mts.
production cuts and potentially less stringent regulation, Chinas imports of specialised products drove the market following the presidential election, point to a possible in 2015 with a gain of 8%, but during the first 11 months rebound in production.
The derestriction of US crude of 2016 Chinese import growth slowed to 3.2% exports now means that exports will likely increase as year-on-year.
India, now the worlds fastest growing output grows and reductions in imports may be more major economy, saw seaborne specialised products muted.
New refining capacity and strategic stock import growth of 16% for the first half of 2016 compared building should drive further growth in Chinese and to the first half of 2015.
We estimate that the other part of the tonne-mile factor, Re-balancing of the global oil market resulting distance growth, continued its increase in 2016 with from production cuts may eventually assist products chemical tankers on average travelling 1.8% further per tanker demand, as inventories become depleted and voyage.
US-China seaborne trade of specialised trading opportunities re-emerge.
Above average oil products gained 67% for January-August 2016 when demand growth is still projected for 2017 by the major compared to the same period in 2015. forecasting agencies, despite an expectation of somewhat higher prices.
Average annual growth for the total chemical tanker fleet accelerated in 2016 due to a number of stainless steel We continue to increase volumes with the addition vessels being delivered throughout the year.
onward, we believe deliveries will slow down at a faster rate, with net fleet growth reducing from high 4% in 2016 to high 3% in 2017.
Our base case points to expected volumes at approximately 1.1x world GDP growth or around 3.5% per year, for the next few years.
With average annual fleet growth in 2016 above these levels, we believe that steady utilisation continues to depend on both economic growth and longer trading distances contributing as expected.
Despite the persistence of weak market sentiment in the second half of 2016, and for the most part a lack of seasonality, based purely on fundamentals the mediumlong term outlook for the sector remains encouraging.
Vessels in the deep sea oil tanker Increase in Indian imports of fleet in 2016 specialised products in 2016 4,500 16% 24 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The general feeling in the smaller sizes is that we may Gas have reached the bottom of the market.
That said, the As expected, the LPG carrier market has succumbed to size sector 8,000 cbm and above remains long, due to a softer freight environment during 2016 as fleet supply upsizing, plus newbuildings have still to deliver in the continued to expand, most notably in the VLGC sector.
VLGC freight rates continued to be placed under downward pressure with time charter earnings for an Time charter levels for the 8,250 cbm ethylene units 84,000 cbm unit averaging 74% lower compared to have fallen by 5% year-on-year whilst the assessed rates 2015 levels.
Spot freights have fallen by a similar for the 12,000 cbm ethylene units dropped almost 9% magnitude, though the reduction has been slightly less on the back of fleet growth through 2015 16.
Within the marked with a 67% reduction.
size segment 5-14,999 cbm there is still 7% of the fleet left to deliver in the pressure sector and 6% in the Seaborne trade growth of LPG has continued during ethylene capable sector.
Therefore, this diverging trend 2016, though export volumes from the US were dealt a amongst the smaller and larger units is expected to blow over the summer months as price margins with continue through 2017.
This adversely impacted tonne-mile demand and an increase in export volumes from the The Clarksons Platou gas teams in London, Oslo, Middle East placed additional downward pressure on Singapore and Houston have all increased volumes average voyage time.
The prospects for ammonia trade in 2016. growth offer minimal respite in the near term, although growth in tonne-mile demand is expected to improve as LNG Caribbean volumes are displaced into the North African The LNG shipping market fundamentals improved from and Asian markets.
If US oil and gas production is June onward, after going through a challenging first half.
encouraged by the new Trump administration, this The freight rate assessment for modern dual fuelled should only prove positive for NGL availability.
ships was at US$45,000 per day in late December, whilst averaging US$33,500 per day for the full year, There has been a significant volume of newbuilding around US$3,000 less than a year earlier.
Shipping tonnage delivered, with still more vessels to be absorbed demand is estimated to have grown by 2% while the in 2017 as an additional 27 units look set to hit the net fleet expanded by 7% during the year.
The order book begins to thin out from 2018 chartering activity continued to grow as over 210 fixtures onwards, slowing the pace of fleet growth, which were concluded in 2016, compared with circa 180 suggests that we may then start to see some tightening in 2015. of the supply demand balances.
The wave of new LNG production capacity started to Following a weak start to the year, the market for reach the markets and after four stagnant years the the smaller LPG carriers improved in the final months seaborne trade increased by 7%, reaching circa 265m of 2016. tonnes.
Australia was the main contributor with five new This uptick helped to slow the scale of the decline in liquefaction trains commissioned, lifting the nations freight rates year-on-year.
Benchmark 12 month time exports by 50% to 43m tonnes.
Qatar, the worlds charter levels for the small 3,500 cbm pressure vessels biggest LNG exporter, also increased its exports by 3m ended the year 6% down on 2015 at around tonnes and for the first time utilised its entire production US$170,000 pcm whilst the rates for the 3,200 cbm capacity.
The long-awaited LNG from US shale also semi-refs fell by a more modest 2%.
started to reach the markets with the commissioning of two trains in the Sabine Pass.
Sluggish coastal LPG trade combined with reduced propylene import demand into China were the key Asian markets absorbed most of the incremental factors behind the softer freight sentiment, as in the volumes in 2016.
Flows into the worlds two largest smaller segments there has been minimal change in markets, Japan and Korea, remained relatively flat whilst fleet supply.
Chinas appetite for LNG increased significantly with a 30% hike in imports.
India experienced encouraging With no newbuildings currently on the order book, any import growth on the back of lower gas prices, increase in demand may shift the fundamental balance in government subsidies and high economic activity.
Bulk seaborne LPG trade in 2016, 2017 new LNG production capacity 55% higher than 10 years ago expected to be commissioned 85m mt 43m mt 25 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Middle East LNG imports were also strong, up by 50%, and the region formed a new significant market for spot trading and shipping.
Low gas prices combined with an uptick in coal prices also proved an important factor for a 10% increase in European LNG imports.
The relatively low increase in shipping demand was attributed to the decline in average LNG transport distance as trade has become increasingly intra-basin.
29 new vessels entered the fleet in 2016, adding 4.9m cbm of carrying capacity, of which two ships were FSRUs.
Meanwhile, two vessels were sold for scrapping and six carriers, one FSRU and one LNG bunkering vessel were ordered.
The tightening in the shipping market witnessed through the second half of 2016 is expected to carry through return, allowing asset values at least to stabilise if not yet 2017 as significant new volumes from new plants start to rise.
We are by no means out of the woods but commissioned through 2016 and 2017 will be lifted.
with newbuilding business remaining very quiet, it is These cargoes, coupled with an increase in short-term reasonable to assume that negative fleet growth might trading, will result in an alteration of the shipping balance even start to happen come 2018 as the new ballast as the growth in fleet supply, despite remaining strong, water treatment regulations accelerate demolition of will still be below the growth in demand for required theolder vessels.
On the tanker side, having generally enjoyed a better On the LNG projects side, we could finally see an FID in than expected 2016 as far as earnings are concerned, Mozambique as well as potentially more decisions taken there is a rather more pessimistic view, at least in the on US brownfield terminals where the new administration short-term, and this continues to hamper the volume of may provide favourable conditions for oil and gas business we are able to conclude.
In general, values industry and LNG export growth.
have yet to fall to the levels that buyers feel they need to be at in order for them to invest whilst sellers remain Sale and purchase under little pressure to reduce their price expectations, Secondhand having enjoyed the good earnings of 2016.
For those As mentioned in our half year commentary, 2016 who need to transact, the buying market is quite thin continued to be an extremely challenging year across all and as brokers we are not sure that this will change in sectors so it is with some degree of pride that we can the near term.
report an increase in the number of second hand sale and Having said that, our ability to continue to act for more purchase transactions we concluded year-on-year against corporate clients with their own ongoing requirements 2015.
Of course, with values under the pressures they regardless of market cycles should shelter us somewhat were then, it was not possible to maintain the same levels from this.
Additionally, we would hope to be able to of income but considering that we had the Baltic Indices continue to replicate some high value project type at all-time lows in the early part of the year, the difference transactions in conjunction with our project finance and is not too negative, and when combined with our structured asset finance teams as some clients look to newbuilding desk overall we were up when compared re-finance away from traditional bank debt more towards to last year.
sale and leaseback type structures.
Looking forward into 2017, we have reason to be confident that for dry cargo the worst may well be Newbuilding behind us and that the oversupply of tonnage that the In 2016 the shipping industry saw significant supply side sector as a whole has been suffering for the past few adjustments in reaction to continued market pressures.
years has started to work its way through, resulting in a Historically low levels of newbuild demand, higher levels level of confidence which we have not seen for some of delivery slippage and strong demolition saw fleet time.
Sub-opex level charter rates are a thing of the past growth fall to its lowest level in over a decade.
and the period time charter markets have even started to Bulk carrier tonnage sold in 2016 Total containership demolition an all-time record in 2016 44m dwt 736,000 teu 26 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 2016 was an extremely challenging year for the Offshore shipbuilding industry.
Contracting activity fell to its lowest General level in over 20 years with just 480 orders reported, In spite of continued oil price strengthening in the last down 71% year-on-year.
Domestic ordering proved quarter of 2016, market conditions in general in the important for many builder nations and 68% of orders in offshore segment remain highly challenging.
Operators dwt terms reported at the top three shipbuilding nations continue to focus on cost cutting, implying limited were placed by domestic owners last year.
Despite a 6% sanctioning of new field developments and moderated decline in newbuild price levels over 2016, few owners maintenance activities.
This, combined with continued were tempted to order new ships, especially with the substantial overcapacity in the asset-heavy segments of secondhand market offering attractive opportunities.
offshore oil services, supported persistent low utilisation Only 48 bulkers and 46 offshore units were reported and rates.
Looking to 2017, we expect activity to contracted globally last year, both record lows, and increase somewhat in certain offshore segments, but it tanker and boxship ordering was limited.
As a result, just will generally take time to work through overcapacity, 126 yards were reported to have won an order 1,000 suggesting adverse market conditions for most GT in 2016, more than 100 yards fewer than in 2015. contractors.
Operators have also signalled further However, a record level of cruise ship and ferry ordering investment reductions in 2017.
Previous downturns have provided some positivity in 2016.
Combined, these ship demonstrated that rebasing supply-chain costs usually sectors accounted for 52% of last years US$33.5bn takes 12-24 months.
Even though costs have already estimated contract investment and, whilst such come down significantly, we believe operators will seek segments had not been a traditional focus for the Group, further expenditure reductions and also require higher oil the addition of the newbuilding team in Oslo enabled us prices and visibility on the anticipated sustainability of to take advantage of these more industrially routed prices before increasing investments again.
opportunities, with contracting in these segments The Clarksons Platou offshore team continued to build accounting for a significant proportion of Clarksons market share in chartering, sale and purchase and Platou newbuilding contracting activity in 2016. restructuring, strengthening the team in anticipation of European shipyards were clear beneficiaries, taking 3.4m the recovery.
CGT of orders in 2016, the second largest volume of Drilling market orders behind Chinese shipbuilders 4.0m CGT.
Reduced spending by operators has put severe Year-on-year, contracting at European yards increased downwards pressure on rig fixing activity which has 31% in 2016 in terms of CGT while yards in China, declined by more than 65% since 2012-13.
At the same Korea and Japan saw contract volumes fall by up to time, legacy contracts have expired rapidly, and as a 90% year-on-year.
result active rig utilisation has dropped to 66% and 63% In light of such weak ordering activity, the global order for jackups and floaters respectively.
Day rates have book declined by 29% over the course of 2016, reaching followed and are close to operating expenses on both a 12 year low of 223.3m dwt at the start of January 2017. categories in all regions of the world.
Rig owners are This is equivalent to 12% of the current world fleet.
The naturally aware of the situation and, due to the age of number of yards reported to have a vessel of 1,000 GT or the existing fleet, scrapping removals have started to above on order has fallen from 931 yards back at the start come to fruition, especially on the floater side.
There has of 2009 to a current total of 372 shipbuilders.
also been considerable movement in the order book, where units have been delayed and cancelled.
In spite of Looking forward, 2017 will continue to be a challenging this, a rebalancing of the MODU-market is likely to take proposition for shipbuilders and volumes are likely to some time, mainly due to the overhang of supply.
remain tempered against the backdrop of prevailing fragility in the freight markets and a continued The subsea market disconnect between secondhand values and For the subsea industry low sanctioning activity will have newbuilding prices.
Nevertheless, with the shipbuilding a great impact on demand for construction installation market having now endured a substantial period of and SURF subsea services.
2015 represented the lowest inactivity, there is the potential for builders to consider level of subsea tree awards since 2000, reflecting making some strategic decisions in order to incentivise operators reduced E&P spending and re-bidding of buyers and maintain levels of production and this in turn contracts to obtain the lowest possible pricing.
The end may deliver a little more activity into 2017.
Newbuilding deliveries Barrels per day of oil produced in 2016 offshore 100m dwt 25m 27 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued result for 2016 was an even lower level of subsea and 1% versus the second quarter of 2016 in GoM, equipment awards.
On the back of the oil price Brazil and West Africa, and year to date figures are down strengthening, sanctioning of new projects could increase 26%, 23% and 26% versus year to date 2015 for the with more subsea equipment awards during 2017.
important for SURF work, which is largely driven by new With more vessels coming off contracts internationally field developments.
Subsea maintenance activity has also especially in Brazil, an increasing number of vessels will now largely been deferred for about two years, implying likely find their way to the North Sea spot market.
potential demand could be pent up.
We are starting to Owners have few other places to trade large AHTS units, see increasing tendering activity within the subsea but many of these units will likely go straight into lay-up.
maintenance sector, and we expect awards in this segment to increase through 2017.
This should lead Futures to a gradual improvement of subsea fleet utilisation, which The first quarter of 2016 produced new lows for the was around 50% on a global basis in December 2016, Cape 4TC 172 with a record index of US$485 posted naturally with significant variations per sub-segment.
Panamax and supramax markets fared little better with first quarter averages of US$3,067 PSV and US$3,800 respectively.
By late April the same index The North Sea PSV market has remained challenging for had risen to US$8,374, proving once again the intrinsic owners in 2016, with spot rates ranging between 2,740 volatility in the dry freight market.
Despite a lacklustre and 14,826 per day for 499-900m deck PSVs and summer, September saw a further rise and a period between 2,410 and 13,994 per day for 900m PSVs.
of increased volatility from a higher base, with capes Term rates have bottomed out between 4,750-6,000 peaking at US$20,063 on 17 November.
The cape per day for the different categories and year to date index for the year averaged US$6,373 2015: US$6,996 numbers are down 21-22% vs last year.
Utilisation has whilst panamax averaged US$5,562 2015: US$5,560 been falling steadily since the middle of 2014, and the and supramax US$6,268 2015: US$6,965.
Market 900m PSVs have obtained an average utilisation of 75% volumes on cape futures fell 14.3%, whilst the smaller in the first 11 months of the year, compared to 88% for the panamax and supramax sectors showed minor same period last year.
The current utilisation for the largest volume improvements.
Approximately 130 PSVs have been laid up in the North Sea, compared to 97 at the The promising start in freight options volumes witnessed beginning of the year.
As term contracts are at operating in the first quarter was not sustained and the market expense levels, and laid up vessels are still being bid for volume ultimately shrank 10% year-on-year.
Despite longer-term contracts, we expect rates to remain steady this we performed well.
Globally, rates have still decreased further The iron ore growth story continues with a 56% rise both year-on-year and versus the second quarter of 2016. in market volumes to 1.34bn tonnes.
Once again, we PSV rates across the vessel categories declined by an have increased our market share in this growing sector.
average of 13%, 20% and 1% versus the second quarter Reflecting the diminished volume in freight swaps, of 2016 in GoM, Brazil and West Africa.
Figures for the first 11 months are down 35%, 28% and 32% versus the our team has reduced in size but renewed vigour has resulted in improved performance.
At the same time, we same period from 2015.
Vessel lay ups have also increased in all regions of the world and around have increased our staffing in the growing iron ore sector both in London and Singapore, where our volumes 30% of the global fleet is currently laid up.
AHTS The adoption of the cape 180,000 5TC contract seems As for the PSVs, the North Sea AHTS market has likely to take place early in 2017, removing some of the remained challenging in 2016 with spot rates ranging trader uncertainty and immediately providing an uplift in between 4,750 and 52,920 per day for 16-20,000 values of approximately US$1,000.
BHP AHTS and between 5,997 and 62,705 per day for the largest class of AHTSs.
The market for long-term AHTS contracts, historically a very small market, is almost non-existent.
Around 56 vessels are currently laid up in the North Sea, representing 62% of the fleet.
Utilisation has been falling steadily since mid-2014, and the 20,000 BHP category has obtained an average utilisation of 35% in the first 11 months of the year, compared to 51% for the same period last year.
The current utilisation for the largest vessels is 29%.
At the Supramax handymax futures same time, we are seeing reduced demand for large volumes increase in 2016 AHTS vessels in certain regions.
Globally, rates have still decreased further both year-on-year and versus the second quarter of 2015.
Term rates across the AHTS vessel categories declined by an average of 7%, 10% 18% 28 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Securities 2016 will be remembered as the year the UK voted to leave the European Union and the year Donald Trump Financial was elected the incoming US President.
Although these issues were predicted to impact the financial markets significantly, the capital markets have been relatively stable and resilient and have throughout the year survived relatively untroubled as a whole.
2016 started as 2015 left off: namely with a continuing Uniquely downward spiral in the stock markets whereby major indices took a 10% haircut the first few weeks into 2016.
The downward spiral was fuelled by concerns of Chinas positioned slowing economy and the ever-falling oil prices.
At the worst the oil price was below US$30 but at the end of the year was back above US$50.
Our corporate finance revenues, however, increased approximately 40% compared to the same period in 2015.
Similar to 2015, The solutions and expertise the first quarter of 2016 saw very strong secondary trading in bonds, mainly relating to trading in distressed provided by the financial team offshore bonds, however activity came down in March have greatly enhanced our client and continued into April.
Corporate finance revenues in the first quarter of 2016 were driven by equity capital offering and uniquely positions our markets transactions which kicked off in February with business amongst its peers and Golden Ocean raising US$200m followed by Scorpio Bulkers raising US$63m in March.
places us well, as some of the In the second quarter of 2016, the markets again major banks step back from took a hit as the UK voted to leave the EU, causing lending to the shipping market.
mass confusion about the future of European financial markets and the value of the British pound.
Despite the difficult markets, we led a US$192m equity offering for Scorpio Bulkers Inc. in June, and advised Golar LNG in the establishment and private placement of US$500m of Golar Power in July, in addition to being retained as advisor for several Norwegian and international companies.
Revenue US$ In the third quarter of 2016, markets were somewhat shut down within our core sectors despite our strong pipeline.
Despite the still difficult market conditions we led the US$51.5m equity issue in Star Bulk Carriers US$55.2m Corp. completed in September 2016.
In addition, we were retained for performing valuations and submitting 2015: US$43.8m fairness opinions to two US listed companies, one of which was a new client.
Revenue equivalent 41.0m 2015: 28.7m Segment underlying profit Equity capital raised for our clients in 2016 6.8m US$1.5bn 2015: 1.2m 29 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Project finance Shipping At the beginning of the year and until the end of the second quarter of 2016, we experienced lower transaction activity and fewer projects being placed in the Norwegian project finance market compared to earlier years.
One major reason for this is clearly the lack of finance, due to the fact that banks have enough shipping exposure, and earnings in most segments are not sufficient to provide a cash flow that covers interest, amortisation and a return on equity.
Another reason has been that the low charter levels and decline in ship values have had a negative effect on liquidity and balance sheets of shipowners, which has affected their creditworthiness and hence their access to finance.
In the fourth quarter of 2016 markets recovered from the In 2016, we have seen that the project finance market initial shocks following the Brexit vote and the soothing has been split into two categories: opportunistic asset of Chinas stimulus that stabilised the global economy.
play projects and long-term leasing deals.
The asset The election of Donald Trump as the new President of play segments have been mostly dry cargo, offshore the United States shook the markets in the minutes that and containers, while we have seen leasing activity on followed, but ultimately resulted in a rally.
Major indices the tanker side being quite active.
The investors in the added between 6% and 12% through the end of the asset play deals have been mostly European investors year as investors bid up stocks in anticipation of with the deals arranged and syndicated in the Norwegian deregulation, lower taxes, inflation and infrastructure project finance market.
On the leasing side, the Chinese spending.
For Clarksons Platou Securities CPS, leasing banks have been very active, and a few other markets opened up, and we completed six equity private equity funds specifically targeting the offshore offerings raising in total approximately US$545m for, industry have also concluded a couple of transactions.
amongst others, Golar LNG, Maritime & Merchant Bank, In the second half of the year we focused on financing Songa Bulk and Standard Drilling, in addition to being projects with 100% equity.
The activity picked up a part of the syndicate raising US$150m in senior notes significantly after the summer, and in the second half for Rowan Industries, a new client of CPS, and a of the year, we structured and placed three PSV US$225m offering of convertible senior notes for projects seven vessels, one handysize bulker project Ship Finance International.
one vessel and one feeder containership project two Looking into 2017, we believe it will likely be a more vessels.
The total equity raised in these transactions positive capital markets environment as we see amounted to close to US$65m.
improvement in both commodity prices and increasing In addition to this, our project sales team has investor risk appetite.
Hence we remain cautiously successfully worked together with Clarksons optimistic for the year to come.
Platou Securities on the placement of three private placement transactions.
The outlook for 2017 is positive, as we have several projects in the pipeline and the momentum going forward is strong.
Debt capital raised for our clients Total KS market transaction volumes in 2016 in 2016 US$0.9bn US$2.1bn 30 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Real estate Structured asset finance The Nordic real estate market continued the strong During the course of 2016, it was evident that traditional path in 2016 with strong growth in Sweden, Finland and shipping finance particularly from financial institutions in Denmark compared to 2015.
The Norwegian market Europe had become much harder to obtain.
This was however dropped from NOK118bn to an estimate of largely driven by more stringent capital regulations, NOK70bn in 2016 mainly due to fewer large transactions ongoing legacy portfolio losses and a more cautious than we experienced in 2015.
Across the entire Nordic approach to credit risk towards the sector.
Whilst a market, yields on prime assets and long leases number of smaller banks began to increase exposure compressed as institutional funds and family offices to the sector, this in no way made up for the flight to sought yielding assets with stable dividends in stable quality and reduced syndicated lending from the major macro-economies like the Nordic.
Foreign investors have shipping banks.
had an increasing appetite for the Norwegian market The continuing emergence of global leasing companies over recent years but this was significantly down in notably in China and Japan has provided some of the 2016.
The major reason is the continuous drop in CBD much needed additional financing support for the sector Oslo Yields with 3.75% as a new all-time-low record.
but again, whilst these leasing companies are in This makes Oslo one of the most expensive commercial expansionary mode and are actively looking for sound real estate markets in Europe.
Domestic property business opportunities beyond their national borders, companies and property funds listed and unlisted they alone do not fill the void.
Insurance companies, accounted for 63% of the volume.
Even though yields pension and wealth funds, incentivised by regulation on prime assets have declined, the yield gap difference to match medium-term liabilities with assets, remain between real estate yield and interest rate level is still hungry for volume and yield but continue to have limited attractive.
The vacancy rate in the Oslo office market is risk appetite for the sector and this pool of capital, aside expected to decline over the next two years as a result from a few notable recent US Private Placement of conversion and demolition of older office buildings transactions, remains largely untapped by the industry.
to residential properties combined with few new office buildings.
In summary, shipping financing is still available for the right transactions but liquidity is very tight and unlikely Whilst total transaction values have declined in 2016 to improve in the next 12 months.
compared to 2015 we still see strong demand from the equity side and expect this to continue.
12 real estate transactions Total global syndicated marine concluded by Clarksons in 2016 finance loan volume in 2016 NOK 3.5bn US$50.3bn 31 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Agency dry cargo Grain As far as grain exports are concerned, 2016 has Support been an excellent year for the agency business.
Ipswich, Tilbury and Southampton have seen high shipping volumes, and the smaller coastal ports such as Poole and Boston have remained busy too.
Additional grain export business has been won which has not only increased our activity in our traditional grain Challenging ports, but also has seen us handling grain in Sheerness and on the Tyne.
The indications from the trade are that volumes will conditions fall off in the early part of 2017 as much of the UK exportable surplus has already been shipped, but levels should pick up again after Julys harvest.
Animal feed It has been a very strong year After a steady start to 2016, animal feed imports picked for most areas of our business up significantly in the last few months of the year, with Liverpool and Avonmouth seeing much increased handling dry cargoes, but, as volumes.
expected, 2016 was a struggle Coal biomass for those areas in the oil and gas Coal imports have now largely been replaced by biomass as power stations are either converted sector.
We have concentrated, or closed.
therefore, on controlling overheads The switch of fuel type alone has not affected whilst providing a market-leading Clarkson Port Services CPS but we have seen an overall reduction in activity as customers reduce level of service.
volumes due to both planned maintenance on their burners and teething problems with new port side handling facilities.
In 2017 we expect to return to more normal import volumes.
Agency liquids Although in 2016 CPS handled a small number of liquid calls, mainly based around Harwich, Fawley, Thames and the Mersey, the agency fees offered by the tanker owners remain very low.
Agency offshore Oil and gas This has been much the hardest part of our business in 2016.
We have seen volumes more than halved because of the downturn, forcing us to restructure our offices and Revenue decrease overheads, whilst ensuring we remain in a strong position to react to our customers requirements both now and in the future.
17.8m A slight upturn was seen in the lower fee-earning PSV market towards the end of 2016, and we are starting to 2015: 22.5m receive enquiries for a number of projects scheduled for early 2017.
We hope that this is a sign of a slow market improvement, although it will be some time until it returns to previous levels.
Segment underlying profit 2.1m 2015: 3.3m 32 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Stevedoring Our stevedoring operation in Ipswich has perhaps been the most successful area of our business in 2016, benefiting from an increased client base, a good harvest year and a widening of products handled.
We continue to benefit from being one of the few facilities in the UK not directly connected to just a single major grain house.
With the cooperation of Associated British Ports we have been able to increase our storage facilities in the port, and are in discussions to take on additional space in 2017.
Although the prediction is that grain volumes will decrease in the first half of 2017, we are already seeing our customers switching their attention away from grain Offshore renewables export and focusing on imported products such as Much of 2016 was spent laying the groundwork to animal feed and rice.
ensure that CPS is involved in the various offshore wind We continue to look for other stevedoring opportunities projects commencing around the UK.
In the third quarter of 2016, we began handling Freight forwarding and logistics projects in Belfast and East Coast UK, which will In 2016, we concentrated on expanding our focus continue well into 2017.
During the coming year we to new sectors including renewables, but the market expect this activity to increase significantly and currently remains challenging.
have sight of projects that we should be involved with at least until 2020.
Gibb Industrial Supplies As with our other businesses involved in the oil and gas sector, 2016 was a tough year.
Orders from the sector reduced significantly as clients reined in their spending and, consequently, we cut overhead in order to ensure we remain in a healthy position when the market improves.
The second half of the year showed signs of improvement but we continue to focus on promoting our supply business in other sectors.
In addition, in 2016 we completed the implementation of an electronic stock system that will not only improve the service we are able to offer our clients, but should also help us control overheads.
Total tonnage handled at Ipswich stevedoring operation in 2016 801,000 mt 33 www.
com Strategic report Business review continued Research revenues and results grew strongly in 2016, with sales reaching 13.7m 2015: 11.1m.
Despite the challenging markets, underlying sales grew by an Research encouraging 19% during the year, as our clients continued to value the importance of authoritative intelligence.
This performance builds on a consistent long-term growth profile, supported by ongoing investment into this important area of our business.
Clarksons Research is respected and trusted worldwide Significant as the market-leading provider of authoritative intelligence and data across shipping, trade, offshore and energy.
We continue to invest heavily to expand our wide ranging proprietary database, to develop and growth enhance our digital product offering and to promote the Clarksons profile across the global shipping and offshore industries.
Research also continues to be a core data provider to the broking, financial and support teams Our 2016 performance builds on of Clarksons.
a consistent long-term growth The research focus on the collection, validation, management, processing and analysis of integrated profile, supported by ongoing data about the shipping and offshore markets continues.
investment into this important area Our fully integrated and relational database continues to expand in breadth and depth, with our shipping and of our business.
trade database now providing coverage on over 135,000 vessels totalling 1.9bn dwt, over 40,000 companies, over 25,000 machinery models, over 600 active shipyards and fabricators, over 600,000 fixtures and over 100,000 commercial and trade time series, including coverage of 11bn tonnes of seaborne trade.
The offshore and energy database provides comprehensive coverage of all offshore fields, projects, production platforms, subsea infrastructure, rigs, support vessels and construction vessels, all integrated within a Geographical Information System GIS.
The development of new proprietary data remains important, including the utilisation of AIS data, trade and commodity flows, the tracking of capital market activity and shipping loan data, machinery and environmental packages on board ships, offshore renewables, ports and terminals, ship repair yards and other shore side infrastructure relating to trade and energy.
Over 75% of research sales are annuity based and there is excellent customer retention.
A broad and diversified client base includes good market penetration across the financial, shipowning, insurance, supplier, governmental, Revenue private equity, energy, commodity, shipyard, fabrication and oil service sectors.
There is also broad global client spread, including across Asia Pacific.
Total research headcount is now over 100, with a continued 13.7m broadening of geographic footprint, involving expansion of operations in both Shanghai and Singapore 2015: 11.1m during 2016.
Segment underlying profit Shipping Intelligence Weekly has been produced for 4.9m 2015: 3.4m 25 years 34 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Services Clarksons Research continues to expand its provision of bespoke service contracts to a range of large corporate and institutional clients in both the shipping and offshore industries.
A specialist team concentrates on managing retainers and providing bespoke data, consultancy and valuations for banks, shipyards, fabricators, engineering companies, insurers, governments, asset owners and other corporates.
These bespoke services often become embedded within our clients workflows, supporting client retention.
Clarksons Valuations performed particularly strongly in 2016, growing its position as the leading provider of valuation services to the ship finance sector.
The valuations team work closely with all major ship finance Research derived its income from the following banks and leading owners, as the value our clients place principal areas: on authoritative and comprehensive support increases with the challenging market conditions.
The valuation Digital team headcount has been expanded in 2016, along Sales from digital products performed very well in 2016, with investment in their operating support tools.
We continue to invest heavily in our digital product offering, utilising our growing proprietary Reports database, IT and data analytics to remain both market Market intelligence reports remain an important aspect leading and to develop new digital products to add to of the Clarksons Research overall offering, generating our offer.
Research publishes weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reports, publications, Sales from our flagship maritime commercial database, registers and maps, available both in print and within Shipping Intelligence Network, continue to grow, while our digital offering, continuing a 50 year heritage.
Our a major upgrade to our online vessel register, World Fleet flagship shipping report, Shipping Intelligence Weekly, Register, during the year was very well received by remains market-leading while our comprehensive clients and helped support robust sales growth of offshore offering, including Offshore Drilling Rig 27%.
Our relaunched register offers a range of new and Monthly and Offshore Support Vessel Monthly, powerful functionality including owner and yard profiles, continues to gain traction.
alert functions and expanded data on equipment, incidents and additional fleet sectors.
Sales of our digital offering across offshore continue to expand and a further product enhancement to World Offshore Register is planned for early 2017.
Our launch of a new ship tracking system in late 2016, Clarksons SeaNet, blends satellite and land based AIS data with our proprietary database of vessel characteristics and infrastructure.
It tracks global vessel movements for over 60,000 ships, with a combined fleet tonnage of 1.2bn gt, across over 5,000 ports and zones.
This is a very positive development and is fully complementary to both the research digital offer and broader technology strategy across broking and financial.
Further new digital products and product enhancement are expected to come on line in 2017.
Viewings of Shipping Intelligence Number of valuations provided by Network each year Clarksons Valuations in 2016 4,000,000 30,000 35 www.
