28 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Business reviews: North America Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points NORTH % % % AMERICA i US Spirits Canada Spirits RTDs Value Super premium DGUSA Other Beer Other Standard Ultra premium Wine Premium i excluding RTDs Key financials North America, the largest market Acquisitions and Organic Reported for premium drinks in the world, 2015 Exchange disposals movement 2016 movement million million million million million % accounts for about a third of our Net sales 3,455 172 159 97 3,565 3 net sales and around half of Marketing 542 23 14 10 541 operating profit.
North America Operating profit before exceptional items 1,448 77 30 56 1,551 7 continues to be a very vibrant Exceptional market and we are focused on operating items 28 setting the business up for longOperating profit 1,420 1,551 9 term growth.
In the year, we disposed of our wine assets in Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee and States.
Diageo Canada distributes our collection of spirits and beer brands across all the United States, and our new Louisville, Kentucky.
Over the last five years, we have made significant changes to our Canadian provinces, which generally operate management team have made supply footprint in North America as we through a provincial control system.
Diageo a number of changes to refocus focus on continuously improving efficiency Canada operates through a single broker marketing activity, upweight on with a dedicated sales force handling our across our supply chain.
Since 2010 we have premise activity, and enhance invested more than $250 million 160 brands in the country.
National brand million in our network and people to strategy, strategic accounts marketing and distributor relationships.
deliver world-class manufacturing and corporate functions are managed at the North America level.
Our markets North America business is headquartered Route to consumer Sustainability and responsibility in Norwalk, Connecticut, and comprises US Route to consumer in the United States is Through our focus on responsible drinking Spirits, Diageo Guinness USA DGUSA and we have built a reputation as a leading voice through the three-tier system and we Diageo Canada.
distribute our products through in the industry in North America, our largest approximately 40 spirits distributors and market.
2015 saw the successful culmination Supply operations brokers, and more than 400 beer distributors.
of our 12-year campaign for alcohol We have nine bottling, distilling, blending companies to be allowed to include alcohol We have a unique route to consumer for our and maturation sites including operations spirits business in the United States, with content and nutritional information per serve in Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: approximately 3,000 dedicated distributor on packaging.
In October we followed this Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, sales people focused only on Diageo and by putting macro nutritional labels on our Crown Royal packaging a first for any Mot Hennessy spirits brands.
We consolidate our US Spirits business into a alcohol company.
single distributor or broker in 41 states and Operational sustainability is another key the District of Columbia, representing more issue for us.
We have introduced rigorous water management procedures across our than 80% of our US Spirits volume.
The US Spirits business operates through North America sites.
For example, at our three divisions in open states where we sell George Dickel distillery in Tullahoma, to distributors who then sell to retailers, and Tennessee, all water is either reused or through two division in control states where returned to the local water source without we sell to the state, which in turn sells to impact, resulting in zero wastewater leaving state or agency stores and on premise the site.
Our focus on improving energy retailers.
DGUSA sells and markets brands efficiency and reducing carbon emissions including Guinness and Smirnoff Ice.
Beer has made North America Diageos bestdistribution generally follows the three-tier performing region for this metric.
open state regulations across the United PDF Page: v2 Pg28New.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
