THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016 BUSINESS REVIEW The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is an investment company and its investment objective is set out below.
The strategy the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk guidelines, together with investment limits, and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
The business model the Company has adopted to achieve its investment objective has been to contract the services of Invesco Fund Managers Limited the Manager to manage the portfolio in accordance with the Boards strategy and under its oversight.
The portfolio manager with individual responsibility for the day-to-day management of the portfolio is Mark Barnett.
Investment Objective and Policy Investment Objective The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share in excess of the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share in excess of the rate of UK inflation.
Investment Policy The Company will generally invest in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK.
The Company may also invest up to 20% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
No acquisition may be made which would result in a holding being greater than 10% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio.
Similarly, the Company may not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company may borrow money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to 25% of net assets.
Use of derivative instruments is monitored carefully by the Board and permitted within the following constraints: the writing of covered calls against securities which in aggregate amount to no more than 10% of the value of the portfolio and the investment in FTSE 100 futures which when exercised would equate to no more than 15% of the value of the portfolio.
Other derivative instruments may be employed, subject to prior Board approval, provided that the cost and potential liability of exercise of all outstanding derivative positions at any time should not exceed 25% of the value of the portfolio at that time.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments.
Results and Dividends At the year end the share price was 665p per ordinary share 2015: 662p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 710.74p and 695.30p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2015 were 704.23p and 686.07p.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 8.75p 2015: 8.60p per ordinary share will be payable on 29 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 10 June 2016.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on9 June 2016.
This will give total dividends for the year of 24.35p per share, an increase of 2.1% on the previous years dividends of 23.85p.
The revenue return per share for the year was 26.7p, a 7.7% increase on the 2015 return of 24.8p.
Performance The Board reviews the Companys performance by reference to a number of key performance indicators KPIs which are set out below.
Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control, they are measures of the Companys absolute and relative performance.
The KPIs assist in managing performance and compliance and are reviewed by the Board at each meeting.
08 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2016 2015 Total Return: 1 Net asset value per share debt at par 4.2% 16.5% 1 Net asset value per share debt at market value 4.6% 16.2% 1 Share price 4.0% 15.7% 1 FTSE All-Share Index 3.9% 6.6% Discount to NAV debt at par 6.4% 6.0% Discount to NAV debt at market value 4.4% 3.5% Revenue return per share 26.7p 24.8p Dividend per share 24.35p 23.85p Yield at year end 3.7% 3.6% Gross gearing 12.9% 10.9% 2 Ongoing charges ratio 0.6 0.6 1 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
2 Calculated in accordance with AIC Guidelines i. e. total ongoing expenses average NAV debt at market value.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6 gives a commentary on the performance of the Company during the year, the gearing and the dividend.
Expenses are reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
For the year being reported, all KPIs are considered satisfactory.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of the Company in relation to the 22 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector.
As at 31 March 2016, the Company was ranked 5th by NAV performance in this sector over one year and 4th over both three and five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Analysis of Performance analyses the Analysis of Performance performance of the Company relative to its FOR YEAR benchmark index.
TOTAL RETURN BASIS ENDED Relative performance represents the 31 MARCH 2016 arithmetic difference between the NAV and % the benchmark.
Net asset value total return 4.2 Net gearing effect measures the impact of Benchmark total return 3.9 the debenture stock, bank loan and cash on the Companys relative performance.
This will Relative performance 8.1 be positive if the portfolio has positive Analysis of Relative Performance performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stock Portfolio total return 5.5 and bank loan reduces the assets available to Less Benchmark total return 3.9 invest and has a negative impact on performance.
Portfolio outperformance 9.4 Management fee the base fee reduces the Borrowings: Companys net assets and decreases Net gearing effect 0.1 performance.
Interest 0.7 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of Management fee 0.5 assets and therefore result in a negative effect Other expenses 0.1 for relative performance.
Tax 0.1 Effect of ordinary share issues measures the effect of ordinary shares issued on the Total 8.1 Companys relative performance.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 Financial Position and Borrowings The Companys balance sheet on page 39 shows the assets and liabilities at the year end.
Borrowings 3 at the year end comprised the 100 million 7 4% debenture which matures in 2022 and 80 million drawn down on the Companys 150 million 2015: 100 million bank revolving credit facility.
Details of this facility are contained in note 11.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of up to 10% of assets held by the custodian, which is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
As at 31 March 2016, none 2015: 0.2 million was drawn down.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report.
Details of the principal risks affecting the Company follow.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the net asset value per share in excess of the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark and an increase in dividends in excess of the growth in RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the following sets out a description of those risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
Market Risk A great majority of the Companys investments are traded on recognised stock exchanges.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is a significant fall, and or a prolonged period of decline in those markets.
The Companys investments, and the income derived from them, are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which should benefit from expected future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark.
In a similar way, the Manager manages other portfolios holding many of the same stocks as the Company which reflects the Managers high conviction style of investment management.
This could significantly increase the liquidity and price risk of certain stocks under certain scenarios and market conditions.
However, the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued As shown in the investment policy, derivatives may be used provided that the market exposure arising is less than 25% of the value of the portfolio.
During the year, no forward currency contracts or derivatives were used for hedging or market exposure respectively.
Gearing and Borrowing Risk The Company may borrow to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to 25% of net assets.
Borrowing is a mix of the Companys 100 million debenture stock and the Companys 150 million facility.
Details of all borrowing is given in Notes 11 and 12.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks include whether the cost of borrowing is too high and whether the facility can be renewed on terms acceptable to the Company.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of the borrowing it uses to gear its portfolio, whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of borrowing are for the Board to decide.
Information related to borrowing and gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back the debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time-to-time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: good practice industry standards in fund management operations: financial controls: meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the depositary: via the depositary, the management of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its depositary and registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are operated in a satisfactory manner.
In addition, the Company relies on the soundness and efficiency of the custodian for good title and timeliness of receipt and delivery of securities.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks and operation of the controls is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on the Manager and other Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function and other service provisions.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services is delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 parties to act as auditor, registrar, depositary and broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to pursue successfully its investment policy and expose the Company to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every Board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the named portfolio manager.
Mark Barnett is Head of UK Equities at Invesco Perpetual.
He has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been part of the UK equities team at Invesco Perpetual for 19 years.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
The Board has set guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and compliance with the guidelines and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every Board meeting.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business, strategic and political risks in the future, as well as regulatory risks such as an adverse change in the tax treatment of investment companies, and the perceived impact of the Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure credit, liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of the conditions for approval as an investment trust could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange.
The Manager is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and failure to comply with the relevant regulations could harm the Managers reputation with a potential detrimental effect on the Company.
The Manager reviews compliance with investment trust tax conditions and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all risks, the measures in place to control them and the possibility of any other risks that could arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from the service providers.
The Managers compliance and internal audit officers produce regular reports for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
12 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Additionally, the depositary monitors stock, cash, borrowings and investment restrictions throughout the year.
The depositary reports formally once a year and also has access to the Company Chairman and the Audit Committee Chairman if needed during the year.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess, anticipate and mitigate these risks, as far as possible.
Viability Statement The Company is a collective investment vehicle rather than a commercial business venture and is designed and managed for long term investment.
The Companys investment objective clearly sets this out.
Long term for this purpose is considered by the Directors to be at least five years and accordingly they have assessed the Companys viability over that period.
However, the life of the Company is not intended to be limited to that or any other period.
In assessing the viability of the Company, the Directors considered the principal risks to which it is exposed, as set out on pages 9 to 12, together with mitigating factors.
The risks of failure to meet the Companys investment objective, and contributory market and investment risks, were considered to be of particular importance.
The Directors also took into account: the investment capabilities of the portfolio manager: the business model of the Company, which has effectively been stress tested for many years through different and difficult market cycles: the liquidity of the portfolio, with nearly all investments being listed on the London Stock Exchange and readily realisable: the Companys borrowings both long and short term and the ability of the Company to meet these liabilities as they fall due: and the Companys annual operating costs.
Based on the above, and assuming there is no significant adverse change to the regulatory environment and tax treatment of UK investment trusts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Board Diversity The Board considers diversity, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, amongst other factors when reviewing its composition and appointing new directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
As a norm the Board comprises either five or six non-executive directors of which, at present, one is female.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 17.
The Company has no employees.
Social and Environmental Matters As an investment company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily decide to, or not to, make an investment on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company does not have a human rights policy, although the Manager does apply the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
As an investment vehicle the Company does not provide goods or services in the normal course of business, and does not have customers.
Accordingly, the Directors consider that the Company is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
