242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 16 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review The Strategic Report, set out on pages 2 to 25, contains a review of the Companys strategy and business model, an analysis of its performance during the financial year and its future developments and details of the principal risks and challenges that it faces.
Its purpose is to inform the shareholders of the Company and help them to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital and income growth and to provide shareholders with a total return in excess of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
Investment Strategy Details of the Companys Investment guidelines are as follows: X1@ GEH9FQ K AFN KLE FL HGDA:Q AK LG AFN KL HJAF:AH9DDQ AF L@ K :MJALA K G 2 DAKL :GEH9FA K O@ADKL MH LG 9 E9PAEME G 20% of the Companys portfolio, at the time of acquisition, can be invested in quoted companies worldwide.
X4@ J HGKKA:D 9EAFAEME HGKALAGF KAR G G L@ GEH9FQ K ?JGKK 9KK LK AK @ D MFD KK L@ @GD AF?
X1@ HGJL GDAG OADD FGJE9DDQ :GEHJAK MH LG AFN KLE FLK 1@AK D N D G :GF: FLJ9LAGF E9Q D 9 LG 9F AFN KLE FL J LMJF which is materially different from the Companys benchmark index and may be considered to carry above average risk.
Unless driven by market movements, securities in FTSE 100 companies and comparable companies listed on an overseas stock exchange will normally represent between 50% and 100% of the portfolio: securities in FTSE 350 companies and comparable companies listed on overseas stock exchanges will normally represent at least 70% of the portfolio.
X1@ GEH9FQ G K FGL 9F OADD FGL AFN KL EGJ L@9F AF9?
?J ?9L G L@ N9DM G ALK ?JGKK 9KK LK AF GL@ J :DGK ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Further, the Company does not and will not invest more than 10%, in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange, except where the investment companies themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
OADD FGL P: G L@ GEH9FQ K F L 9KK LK &F FGJE9D E9JC L :GF ALAGFK it is expected that the level of gearing will be between 5% and 25% of the Companys net assets.
X1@ GEH9FQ @9K L@ 9:ADALQ LG AFN KL MH LG G ALK ?JGKK 9KK LK AF HJ J F: K@9J K :GF K 9F GL@ J :L AFKLJME FLK although no more than 10% of any one issue may be held.
J : DA N K market or economic conditions make equity investment unattractive or while seeking appropriate investment opportunities or to maintain liquidity.
X G AFN KLE FL OADD : E9 AF 9FQ :GEH9FQ GJ MF E9F9?
J OAL@GML L@ HJAGJ 9HHJGN9D G L@ G9J In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Company can only make a material change to its investment policies with the approval of its shareholders.
Investment Performance Whilst performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys portfolio is constructed and managed without reference to a stock market index, investments being selected only after extensive research by the Portfolio Manager.
The Portfolio Manager uses a bottom-up stock picking approach and looks to invest in a universe of excellent listed businesses that appear undervalued.
It is the Boards long-term objective, as far as possible, to maintain a progressive dividend policy.
Please see page 17 for further information.
The Board believes that the Companys performance over the last 10 years net asset total return of 186.7% compared to a total return from the Companys benchmark index of 75.6% demonstrates that it is possible to achieve good performance through investing principally in UK equities without buying and selling portfolio securities on a short term basis.
The Company continues to perform competitively because the Portfolio Manager concentrates on the strengths and weaknesses of individual companies.
242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 17 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Dividend Policy The Company has a progressive dividend policy.
The aim of the policy is to increase or at least to maintain the total dividend.
Dividends are typically paid in May and as soon as practicably possible after the financial year end, as a second interim in November, in lieu of a final dividend.
The level of dividend growth is dependent upon the growth and performance of the companies within the Investment Portfolio.
The decision as to the level of dividend paid takes into account the income forecasts maintained by the Companys AIFM and Portfolio Manager which are reviewed regularly by the Board.
These forecasts consider dividends earned from the portfolio together with predicted future earnings.
Dividends are expected to be paid from Revenue Reserves.
Ten Y ear Dividend Record 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 First Interim Dividend Second Interim Final Dividend Source: Frostrow Capital LLP Pence per share FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 18 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Business Model Principal Service Providers The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-to-day Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the management to third parties.
The principal service providers to Company provides, inter alia, the following services: the Company are Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow which has XGN JKA?
E FL MF:LAGF been appointed as AIFM, company secretary and delegated to Lindsell Train: administrator: Lindsell Train Limited Lindsell Train which has been appointed as Portfolio Manager.
BNY Mellon Trust & XAFN KLE FL HGJL GDAG 9 EAFAKLJ9LAGF 9F N9DM9LAGF Depositary UK Limited has been appointed as the Depositary.
E FL K JNA: K Lindsell Train was originally appointed as Investment Manager XE9JC LAF?
9F K@9J @GD J K JNA: K to the Company in December 2000.
Lindsell Train has given Mr Nick Train responsibility for managing the Companys XK@9J HJA: AK:GMFL 9F HJ EAME E9F9?
Mr Train was previously head of Global Equities at X9 EAFAKLJ9LAN 9F K :J L9JA9D K JNA: K M&G PLC and head of Pan-European Equities at GT X9 NA: 9F ?MA 9F: AF J KH :L G :GJHGJ9L ?GN JF9F: Management PLC.
Mr Train has managed money in the UK requirements: equity market since 1983, including the top decile performer GT Income Fund 1985-1998.
Lindsell Train is authorised and XE9AFL9AFK L@ GEH9FQ K 9::GMFLAF?
J :GJ K regulated by the FCA.
XE9AFL F9F: G L@ GEH9FQ K O :KAL Frostrow is the AIFM.
It is also responsible for providing XHJ H9J9LAGF 9F AKH9L:@ G 9FFM9D 9F @9D Q 9J J HGJLK company secretarial, administrative, accounting and marketing and monthly fact sheets: and services to the Company.
Frostrow was established in 2007 to provide specialist management, company secretarial, X FKMJAF?
:GEHDA9F: OAL@ 9HHDA:9:D D ?9D 9F J ?MD9LGJQ administration and marketing services to investment requirements.
Frostrow is authorised and regulated by the FCA.
During the year to 30 September 2016 under the terms of the The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys AIFM Agreement Frostrow received a periodic fee at a rate of affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the 0.15% per annum of the Companys market capitalisation plus monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of a fixed fee of 70,000 per annum calculated monthly and investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility payable monthly in arrears.
for all strategic issues, the dividend policy, the share issuance With effect from 11 October 2016 the following fee and buy-back policy, gearing, share price and amendments were made to the AIFM Agreement: discount premium monitoring and corporate governance matters.
Frostrow Capital LLP will receive an annual fee of 0.15% of the Companys market capitalisation up to a value of 1 billion, such fee to reduce to 0.135% per annum of the amount of the Companys market capitalisation in excess of 1 billion.
The fixed fee of 70,000 per annum payable to Frostrow Capital LLP will cease to be payable with effect from the 1 October following the date at which the Companys market capitalisation attains a level of 1 billion.
The AIFM Agreement may be terminated by either party on giving notice of not less than 12 months.
242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 19 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 19 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review The Depositary provides the following services: Portfolio Manager XJ KHGFKA:ADALQ GJ L@ K9 C HAF?
G :MKLG A9D 9KK LK G Under the AIFM Agreement Lindsell Train, as delegate of the the Company: AIFM, is responsible for the management of the Companys portfolio of investments under an agreement between it, the XN JA A:9LAGF 9F E9AFL F9F: G 9 J :GJ G 9DD GL@ J Company and Frostrow the Portfolio Management assets of the Company and for the collection of income Agreement.
that arises from those assets: XL9CAF?
J 9KGF9:D :9J LG FKMJ L@9L L@ GEH9FQ AK Under the terms of its Portfolio Management Agreement with managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND the AIFM and the Company, Lindsell Train provides, inter alia, Sourcebook and the Companys instrument of the following services: incorporation, in relation to the calculation of the net XK CAF?
AFN KLE FL GHHGJLMFALA K asset value per share and the application of income of XJ :GEE F AF?
L@ E9FF J :Q O@A:@ EGFA K K@GMD : the Company: and invested, disinvested, retained or realised: X9 MLQ LG EGFALGJ L@ GEH9FQ K :GEHDA9F: OAL@ X9 NAKAF?
@LK :GF JJ :Q L@ AFN KLE FLK investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its should be exercised: offering documents.
L@ H J GJE9F: G AFN KLE FLK E9 9F Custodian X9 NAKAF?
L@ GEH9FQ AF J D9LAGF LG LJ F K E9JC L movements and other matters which may affect the In accordance with the AIFM Rules the Depositary delegates investment objective and policy of the Company.
custody of the Companys listed investments to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV, London Branch the Global During the year to 30 September 2016 under the terms of the Custodian and any other Bank of New York affiliate as it sees Portfolio Management Agreement Lindsell Train received a fit meaning any direct or indirect subsidiary of The Bank of periodic fee at a rate of 0.45% per annum of the Companys New York Mellon.
As at the date of this annual report, the market capitalisation calculated monthly and payable monthly applicable sub-custodians appointed by the Global Custodian in arrears.
who might be relevant for the purposes of holding the With effect from 11 October 2016 the following amendments Companys investments are: were made to the Portfolio Management Agreement: Name of Lindsell Train Limited will receive an annual fee of 0.45% of the Country sub-custodian Regulator Companys market capitalisation up to a value of 1billion, The Netherlands The Bank of New York Financial Services such fee to reduce to 0.405% per annum of the amount of the Mellon SA NV and Markets Companys market capitalisation in excess of 1 billion.
Authority, Belgium The Portfolio Management Agreement may be terminated by Canada CIBC Mellon Trust Canadian either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
Company Securities Administrators Depositary United States The Bank of New US Securities The Company has appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary of America York, New York and Exchange UK Limited the Depositary as its depositary in accordance Commission with the AIFMD on the terms and subject to the conditions of France BNP Paribas Banque fide France the depositary agreement between the Company, Frostrow Securities Services, Paris and the Depositary the Depositary Agreement.
Under the terms of the Depositary Agreement the Company has agreed to pay the Depositary a fee calculated as a percentage of the Companys gross assets 0.02% of the first 150 million of gross assets and 0.015% of gross assets in excess of 150 million.
subject to a minimum fee of 20,000 per annum, plus any applicable VAT.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 20 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review The Global Custodians safekeeping fees are charged Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow works according to the jurisdiction in which the holdings are based.
to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key groups The majority of the Companys assets attract a fee of 0.008% of within the investment community, holding annual investment their market value.
Variable transaction fees are also seminars, overseeing PR output and managing the Companys chargeable.
website and wider digital offering, including portfolio manager webcasts and social media: Company Promotion Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs The aim of the Companys promotional activities is to the Investor Relations function on behalf of the Company and encourage demand for the Companys shares.
The Company manages the investor database.
Frostrow produces all key has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing services in the corporate documents, distributes monthly factsheets, annual belief that a well-marketed investment company is more likely reports and updates from Lindsell Train on the portfolio and to grow over time, have a more diverse, stable list of market developments: and shareholders and its shares will trade at close to NAV per share Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the over the long run.
Frostrow actively promotes the Company in Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow the following ways: maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and other Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary research and data providers, and conducts periodic investor wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide Frostrow regularly meets institutional investors, discretionary up-to-date and accurate information on the latest shareholder wealth managers and execution-only platform providers to and market developments.
discuss the Companys strategy and to understand any issues and concerns, covering both investment and corporate governance matters: 242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:22 Page 21 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Key Performance Indicators The Board continually reviews overall performance.
The Companys net asset value per share is announced daily via a regulatory news service and is available online.
At each Board meeting, the Board considers a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its investment objective.
The key performance indicators KPIs are as follows: Share price Net asset value Share price total Revenue return discount premium Benchmark and peer total return per share group performance return to net asset value per share Frostrow is responsible for ensuring the Company complies with the AIFMD, and for providing company secretarial, administration and marketing services to the Company.
The management of the portfolio has been delegated to Lindsell Train.
Each provider is responsible to the Board which is ultimately responsible to the shareholders for performing against the above KPIs.
Net asset value total return The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return to be a key indicator of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects the net asset value growth of, and the dividends paid by, the Company.
During the year under review the Companys net asset value per share total return was 20.6% 2015: 12.0% outperforming the benchmark by 3.8% in absolute terms.
A full description of performance during the year under review and the investment portfolio is contained in the Portfolio Managers Review commencing on page 13.
Share price total return The Directors regard the Companys share price total return to be a key indicator of performance.
During the year under review the Companys share price total return was 20.8% 2015: 11.8%.
Please see pages 2 and 3 for further information.
Revenue return per share The Directors regard the Companys revenue return per share to be an important indicator of performance.
The revenue return per share for the year was 15.2 p per share 2015: 13.5p per share.
The Companys net revenue return during the year was up 12.6%.
Share price discount premium to net asset value per share The Board reviews the level of discount premium to net asset value per share at every Board meeting and consideration is given to ways in which the share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing and share issuance and buy-backs, where appropriate.
Details of how the Companys discount control mechanism works can be found on page 6.
Demand for the Companys shares led to the issue of a total of 21,353,000 new shares during the year at a premium to the prevailing cum or ex income net asset value per share at the time of issue.
No shares were repurchased by the Company during the year.
At 30 September 2016 the Companys share price stood at par to the Companys net asset value per share.
Benchmark and peer group performance The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index total return which delivered a return of 16.8% 2015: 2.3 % over the year.
This compares to the Companys share price total return of 20.8%.
The Board also monitors the Companys net asset value return against its peer group.
As at 30 September 2016 the Company ranked number one out of eleven over one, three, five and ten years.
source: Morningstar FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:23 Page 22 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Risk Management The principal risks identified by the Board and the actions taken to mitigate them are set out below under six headings.
Shareholder Corporate Investment Activity Relations Accounting, Legal Operational Financial Strategy and Strategy and Corporate and Regulatory Governance A detailed risk matrix is reviewed and updated by the Companys Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, twice yearly.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it invests.
There were no changes to the Companys risk management systems during the year and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified from the Boards most recent risk review.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Corporate Strategy The Board reviews the Companys investment mandate in relation to market and The Companys business model or investment objective may become economic conditions and monitors the Companys performance against its peers.
In unacceptable or unattractive to addition, the Board holds meetings with shareholders when necessary and regularly shareholders.
reviews the AIFMs reports on marketing activities and investor feedback.
The Companys stockbroker also regularly reports to the Board on investor sentiment and movements on the share register.
The Board holds quarterly discussions with the portfolio manager and undertakes a regular review of compliance with the Companys investment restrictions.
The Board may be unable to maintain a The Board regularly reviews income forecasts produced by the AIFM.
The Companys progressive dividend policy.
articles of association the Articles have been amended to permit the payment of dividends out of capital.
The Board also regularly reviews the Companys gearing levels in discussion with the Portfolio Manager as well as compliance with the gearing limits it sets.
The Companys share price total return The Board has implemented a discount control mechanism which is intended to protect may differ materially from the NAV per against the share price widening beyond a 5% discount to NAV per share and a share share total return.
issuance programme which acts as a premium control mechanism.
Investment Strategy and Activity The investment strategy adopted by the The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the benchmark and the Portfolio Manager may lead to an Companys peer group at every meeting as well as a monthly compliance report and investment return that is materially lower the monthly fact sheet.
The Board discusses with the Portfolio Manager the structure than the Companys benchmark index, of the portfolio, including asset allocation and portfolio concentration, and the thereby failing to achieve the Companys investment strategy at each meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee reviews the portfolio management The departure of a key individual at the arrangements on an annual basis or as appropriate.
In turn, the Portfolio Manager Portfolio Manager may affect the reports on developments at Lindsell Train, including their business continuity and Companys performance.
242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:23 Page 23 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 23 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Shareholder Relations and Corporate Governance The investment objective of existing The Board regularly reviews movements in the Companys shareholder register.
In shareholders no longer coincides with addition, the AIFM and the Companys corporate stockbroker both report on their the investment objective of the interactions with investors.
Company or the Board becomes unaware of the identity of the Companys shareholders.
Poor adherence to corporate The Board reviews all information supplied to shareholders and the AIFMs marketing governance best practice or errors or activity each quarter and periodically reviews the Companys website.
Details of the irregularities in published information Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including information could lead to censure by the FCA on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on and or result in reputational damage to page 34. the Company.
Operational The Companys service providers The Management Engagement Committee reviews the terms of all major service perform poorly, fail to meet their agreements and the Audit Committee meets annually with the Companys auditors to contractual obligations or fail to provide discuss the years audit findings without management being present.
The AIFM sufficient or accurate information to the reports by exception on the performance of outsourced service providers and reviews Board for decision-making.
contracts to ensure they remain reasonable and competitive, undertaking tender processes when appropriate.
Errors regarding title to investment Both the AIFMs and the Portfolio Managers compliance officers report to the Audit holdings or threats to the solvency of the Committee at every meeting and their internal control report, together with the depositary may expose the Company to internal control report of the Custodian, are reviewed annually.
These reviews include financial loss.
consideration of the associated cyber security risks facing the Company.
The AIFM monitors the portfolio movements daily and the Depositary submits semiannual reports on the safe-keeping of the Companys assets.
The AIFM and the Depositary undertake stock reconciliations and produce monthly exceptions reports, with any discrepancies investigated promptly.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:23 Page 24 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 24 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Financial The Company is exposed to market risk, The Portfolio Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the creditworthiness liquidity risk, credit risk and fraud.
of the counterparties that it uses.
The Board also sets and reviews the Companys hedging policy and reviews the exposures in the portfolio at each Board meeting.
Compliance with investment guidelines is confirmed monthly.
The Board reviews a financial analysis at each meeting and the Depositary monitors all payments made from the Companys accounts as well as the custody of the Companys assets.
The AIFM confirms adherence with the relevant loan covenants to the provider of the Companys loan facility on a monthly basis.
Board approval is required for gearing and the Board reviews loan covenants on a monthly basis.
Further information on financial instruments and risk can be found in note 17 to the Financial Statements beginning on page 55.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The regulatory environment in which the The Board relies on the services of its AIFM and its external advisers to ensure Company operates changes, affecting compliance with applicable laws and regulations including the Companies Act 2006, the Companys modus operandi.
the AIFM Rules, the Corporation Tax Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board reviews compliance reports and internal control reports provided by its service Failure to comply with applicable laws providers, as well as the Companys financial statements and forecasts.
and regulations could expose the Company to serious financial loss and The Depositary reports twice yearly to the Audit Committee, confirming that the reputational damage.
Company, acting through the AIFM, has been managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND sourcebook, the Articles in relation to the calculation of the NAV per share and with investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its offering documents.
The Depositary Report can be found on page 72.
The Directors attend AIC Roundtables and conferences to keep up to date on regulatory changes and the Board appoints a specialist investment trust AIFM.
242044 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 16 12 2016 11:23 Page 25 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 25 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 Strategic Report Business Review The Company falls outside the scope of the Modern Slavery Directors Act 2015 as the Company has no employees.
The Companys The Directors of the Company who were in office during the suppliers are professional firms and they provide assurance year and up to the date of signing the financial statements that they also operate in accordance with this legislation.
were: Anthony Townsend Chairman Approval John Allard The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors Neil Collins on 13 December 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Hayes David Hunt Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Anthony Townsend Vanessa Renwick Chairman Further information on the Directors can be found on the following page.
Details of the Directors remuneration arrangements can be found on pages 39 to 42.
Board Diversity The Board supports the principle of Boardroom diversity, of which gender is one important aspect, and the recommendations of Lord Davies review.
The Boards aim is to have a broad range of approaches, backgrounds, skills and experience represented on the Board to make appointments on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
The Board currently comprises five men and one woman.
The Company does not have any employees.
Therefore there is no employee information to disclose.
Social, Human Rights and Environmental Matters The Directors, through the Companys Portfolio Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice with regard to corporate governance.
In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have a human rights policy.
The Company recognises that social and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors consists of six Directors, all of whom are resident in the United Kingdom.
The Board holds its regular meetings in the United Kingdom and has a policy that travel, as far as possible, is minimal.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
