Business review First Student Our strengths Clear market leader bigger than next four competitors combined scale economies in areas such as vehicle and parts procurement, insurance, fleet management, technology development First Student Differentiated offering safety programme, on-bus technology, strong customer relationships and satisfaction scores We continue to be at the forefront Turnaround plan is progressing through disciplined contract portfolio management, capital discipline and cost efficiency plans of the industry for investment in Repositioning business to sustainably deliver profitable growth systems and processes that and returns from market leadership in the long term.
enhance customer service levels, improve fuel efficiency and further and recovery of operating days lost to weather in the prior year, which differentiate our services.
more than offset non-employee cost increases.
However, worsening driver shortages in some of our markets resulted in higher than planned employee costs in the year.
Our cost efficiency programme delivered $14m in savings in the year, less than originally targeted as aresult of the driver shortage challenges, which made consistent implementation of best practice procedures more difficult in affected locations.
Wehavetaken action to mitigate the impact of the driver shortages going forward whilst continuing to deliver our cost efficiency savings: shortly after the year end we realigned ourregional management Dennis Maple andcentral service structures, resulting in the elimination of 130 President, First Student positions, which willassist in making margin progress in 2016 17.
Focused and disciplined bidding Over the past two years, our bidding strategy has focused on 2016 2015 increasing contract pricing on new bids and renewals to ensure that Revenue $2,332.7m $2,368.6m weachieve appropriate returns on the capital required to deliver our services.
In the year we completed our second bid season under the Adjusted operating profit $165.0m $177.3m new pricing strategy, achieving a higher average price increase of 5.3% compared with the first season 4.5%.
As is typical, approximately Adjusted operating margin 7.1% 7.5% one-third of our bus portfolio was up for renewal in the 2015 bid season.
Our contract retention rate was modestly ahead of our Number of employees 57,000 57,000 expectations at 86% for contracts at risk, or 94% across our total portfolio.
Pricing across the marketplace was firmer than in previous First Students revenue was $2,332.7m or 1,553.5m 2015: $2,368.6m years, though we continue to see limited organic growth or conversions or 1,478.8m.
Revenue increases from improved prices, including the from in-house to private provision, and some smaller local operators second year of our successful contract pricing strategy, moderate continue to bid aggressively to retain business.
Net of share shift organic growth and a more normal weather season were offset by movements and our decision to retire a number of excess buses contracts not renewed.
The decrease of 1.5% on a US Dollar basis fromthe fleet, our overall bus portfolio at the end of the year was wasdriven principally by the lower number of school days on which approximately 47,000.
In the 2016 bid season, which is now underway, First Student operated in the year, due to the timing of the school we are reflecting the cost inflation challenges we are experiencing calendar.
Schools will make these days up at the end of the academic inourpricing for new contract bids and renewals, which we would year or the start of the next, so will fall into our 2016 17 financial year.
expectto result in the loss of some business as we have experienced inprior years.
Adjusted operating profit was $165.0m or 112.6m 2015: $177.3m or 114.9m, resulting in an adjusted operating margin of 7.1% 2015: 7.5%.
As anticipated, the effect of the lower number of operating days was $17m of profit, or a reduction in margin of 0.6%.
Our operating results benefited from the second year of improved contract portfolio pricing 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 500 operating locations across Fleet of approximately 47,000 US and Canada yellow school buses rigourin raising compliance with best practice operational procedures, Continuous improvement in operating disciplined overhead cost management across our 500 locations,  reducing non-driving time through our Focus GPS system, more Our biggest operating and financial challenge in the year was efficient engineering via lean engineering practices, and fuel efficiency responding to more significant than usual challenges recruiting and savings from our DriveSMART driver training scheme.
Overall our retaining drivers in some of our locations, as a result of the improving management initiatives have delivered recurring cost savings of $14m US economy and tightening employment markets.
remedies for a shortage of drivers result in higher costs from more Prudent investment in our key assets overtime, increased employee joining incentives and, in the worst affected areas, expenditure required to bring in and house additional We continue to be at the forefront of the industry for investment in drivers from elsewhere in our business.
Shortages also limit the growth systems and processes that enhance customer service levels, improve of charter revenues and make implementation of best practice fuel efficiency and further differentiate our services.
We have deployed procedures more difficult in the areas affected.
We are deploying MyFirstPass swipe card-based location tracking in a number of appropriate recruitment incentives aligned to local conditions in the locations, and we continue to build our non-school charter offering, areas affected, investing in our targeting and marketing to potential which is attractive from an asset utilisation perspective and where employees, and improving our retention and on-boarding processes revenues increased by 3.5% in the year.
We continue to invest in new which we expect to assist in mitigating the impact of this ongoing buses, refurbishments and on-board technology in the year: our challenge.
We have increased our target for cost efficiencies in 2016 17, average fleet age reduced slightly to 7.3 years.
and shortly after the end of the year we took an important step towards Responsible partnerships with our customers this with the realignment of regional management and central services andcommunities noted above.
We are also upgrading our maintenance practices, benefiting from the expertise ofFirst Transits vehicle maintenance Our services form an integral part of the school experience for the services segment.
millions of children in our care each day, and we take our responsibilities to them and to their parents, schools and communities very seriously.
Notwithstanding challenges elsewhere, we have made significant We have maintained last years high customer service scores, and progress reducing certain cost categories this year, by continued continued to invest in safety, completing the roll out of our new Be Safe training programme to all front line managers and supervisors, resulting in a positive impact on our already strong passenger and employee safety metrics.
Continuous improvement in our customer service andsafety track record is deeply embedded in our values as an organisation, and is a core part of our proposition to our customers and passengers.
In addition to cost savings, the fuel efficiency savings from our DriveSMART programme continue to reduce our environmental impact, and we added another 450 alternative fuel buses in the year, taking our fleet to more than 1,700 and making us one of the largest private operators of such school buses in North America.
Future priorities First Student is a leader in our marketplace, both in terms of our size and the quality and safety of the services we provide.
We will continue to improve our financial performance through our contract pricing strategy and operating efficiency programmes to drive appropriate Recognising excellence returns on the capital we invest.
In the longer term, our unique market inmaintenance position, customer proposition and improving operational efficiency Several First Student locations recently earned the Blue Seal willensure we are increasingly well placed to grow through further of Excellence from the US National Institute for Automotive conversion, tuck-in acquisitions and organic opportunities.
The ASE is an independent Outlook non-profit organisation created in 1972 to improve the In the year ahead we expect First Students up or out contract pricing qualityof vehicle repair and service by testing and certifying programme to largely offset cost inflation and to benefit from further automotive professionals.
The Blue Seal is its highest cost efficiencies, a higher number of operating days and a reduction certification.
Our maintenance best practices and streamlined inour fuel costs due to our hedging profile.
Although these will be procedures are among the most innovative and stringent in partially offset by the driver shortage headwinds we are experiencing, the industry, helping to keep safe, rigorously maintained we expect significant margin progression for 2016 17 to at least 9%.
buses on the road without interruption.
As usual, First Students operating results will be significantly weighted Continuous improvement in operating and to the second half because of the overlay of our financial year on the financialperformance North American school calendar.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 Business review First Transit Our strengths Established credentials and track record First Transit is a market leader and has a pedigree extending more than 60 years First Transit Diverse segments and large volume of relatively small contracts our exceptional bidding and management expertise are well embedded Our pipeline of opportunities has Industry-leading programmes including safety and maintenancetraining strengthened over the year and Technology investment is delivering efficiency gains and service we remain very confident that enhancements for our customers ourservices offer a compelling Our scale and breadth of management expertise will support outsourcing option for public future growth, including in new services and geographies.
Focused and disciplined bidding In our sixtieth year of operation, First Transits seasoned management team and bidding expertise have sustained our strong track record ofnew business wins and high contract retention rates across a growing range of services and geographies.
In the year we were awarded 18new contracts, of which nearly 20% by value were Brad Thomas outsourced bypublic authorities for the first time.
New business wins President, First Transit included paratransit contracts in Houston, Chicago and Minneapolis, and First Vehicle Services several Non-Emergency Medical Transportation NEMT call centre management contracts in the Midwest, and three new vehicle maintenance contracts in Florida, including one for Florida 2016 2015 .
Our shuttle segment, which is the only part of the division inwhich we Revenue $1,303.4m $1,362.1m provide capital for vehicles, also continues to win new business.
In the Adjusted operating profit $90.6m $96.1m period we were awarded a contract at Sacramento Airport thanks to anew partnership arrangement with LAZ Parking, one of the largest Adjusted operating margin 7.0% 7.1% parking companies in America, and expanded our presence at Philadelphia International Airport with the award of the American Number of employees 19,500 19,000 Airlines passenger shuttle operations.
We also expanded our international footprint, partnering with the First Transit revenue was $1,303.4m or 864.8m 2015: $1,362.1m or government ofPanama to provide transit management for the 844.8m.
As expected, this is a reduction of 4.3% compared to the MetroBus system inPanama City, and have signed a small employee same period last year in US Dollar terms, reflecting significantly reduced shuttle contract inIndia, which has meaningful potential for future activity in the Canadian oil sands region and hence demand for our growth.
We are also active in the emerging market for closed-system shuttle services there, as a result of lower oil prices.
BRT services in North America, where we are managing the CTfasttrak system in Connecticut.
Adjusted operating profit was $90.6m or 60.1m 2015: $96.1m or59.7m, resulting in a US Dollar adjusted operating margin of Retaining existing clients is also an important element of our bidding 7.0% 2015: 7.1%, which is in line with our expectations and medium strategy.
90% by value of our contracts subject to rebid were renewed, term goals.
reflecting our customers trust in our service capabilities and competitive pricing.
We renewed key contracts in Antioch, Portland, Denver, New Jersey, Hartford and Washington, DC in the year, maintaining our portfolio at around 350 contracts.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Nearly 350 contracts, with Almost 350m passengers ayear average value of less than $5m Continuous improvement in operating Responsible partnerships with our customers  andcommunities First Transit continues to be competitive due to our national service Our commitment to safety, technical and operational knowledge platform, technology infrastructure and management expertise.
andprofessionalism is particularly recognised by our customers and Despitean increasingly challenging employment market, our we continued to focus on improving our safety KPIs in the year, while ongoinginvestment in recruitment, retention and continuous training our overall customer satisfaction score remains high.
We are at the ofour people including the applicant tracking system developed by forefront of the industry in developing mobile apps for our clients First Bus that was introduced last year has ensured we have thedepth allowing registered riders to access timetables, the location of services of expertise required for our bid submissions and for subsequent in real time and monitor disruption to services.
Future priorities Prudent investment in our key assets First Transits international scope, scale and management expertise, coupled with our high level of investment in our people and technology We continue to invest in technology initiatives, rolling outourpaperless and our long-standing customer and industry relationships, will ensure engineering shop system and developing our predictiveanalytics tools we continue to deliver good margins and returns into the medium term.
Ourmanagement information We continue to see attractive opportunities for additional growth in dashboard and mobile apps enable ustocontinue to deliver a ourcore service markets, particularly in paratransit work and in the meaningful point of difference compared tocompetitors, with cost shuttle segment.
Potential opportunities are also growing in light rail, efficiencies for our clients, better information forpassengers and commuter rail and BRT in North America, where we continue to benefit improved financial performance for our business.
from thestrong expertise in our UK divisions as we explore potential opportunities in these areas.
Our international team will continue todevelop opportunities for geographic growth in a disciplined and lowrisk way.
The expertise of our people and the quality of our technology gives FirstTransit a competitive advantage.
Our track record of innovation and cost efficiencies ensures that, despite an increasingly competitive market, we will remain the cost efficient supplier of choice for customers old and new.
We continue to anticipate achieving a margin of approximately 7% in the medium term, which we believe is attractive in the context of the limited capital employed in the division.
Outlook Our pipeline of opportunities has strengthened over the year and we remain very confident that our services offer a compelling outsourcing option for local authorities and private customers.
Although we expect some further reductions in demand for our shuttle services to the Canadian oil sands sector due to the oil price and the recent wildfire which devastated the city of Fort McMurray, we anticipate that First Transit will return to overall growth in 2016 17, while maintaining margins.
Partnering to deliver food for families Working with Phoenix area transportation agency Valley Metro, First Transit have been providing in-kind operations and maintenance support to community initiative Fresh Express since 2014.
A re-purposed Valley Metro bus has been transformed into a roving grocery store that provides easy access to fresh produce in areas where local residents have little to no access to transportation and no neighbourhood stores.
Fresh Express makes dozens of stops each month atschools, senior centres and other community centres in underserved neighbourhoods across Phoenix, enabling families to buy fresh fruits and vegetables at low cost.
Responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13 $5m Business review Greyhound Our strengths Iconic brand synonymous with long distance coach travel Only national network of scheduled intercity coach services Greyhound passenger feed from this network provides operating leverage to point-to-point services A business that is reconnecting with customers operating Completing the transformation arefreshed fleet with improved amenities and transformed systems to connect with our passengers and respond to their needs ofour business into a IT-enabled, Range of brands and price points to target new markets.
customer-centric enterprise withreal-time pricing and yield management and the latest lower demand on our margins.
Greyhounds adjusted operating profit customer relationship was $54.4m or 35.5m 2015: $68.5m or 41.7m, anadjusted US Dollar operating margin of 6.0% 2015: 6.9%.
management capabilities Compared with our US operations, the lower oil price has had a more isakeypriority.
adverse effect on passenger demand for our services in Canada approximately 16% of Greyhounds revenues, both directly and through the impact on thehealth of the economy.
There are regulatory and structual constraints in this market and, despite extensive management action, Greyhound Canada was loss-making in 2015 16.
We are pursuing further options to address the performance of our Canadian Dave Leach business.
President and CEO, Greyhound Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions Greyhound is one of the most iconic brands in transport, with a unique 2016 2015 national network.
Passengers from our traditional network, which operates across North America, also help us feed our point-to-point Revenue $914.0m $986.0m Greyhound Express service.
Since inception, our point-to-point brands have operated modern buses equipped with free Wi-Fi, power outlets, Adjusted operating profit $54.4m $68.5m leather seats, extra legroom and guaranteed seating, and all of these Adjusted operating margin 6.0% 6.9% amenities have now been extended across our traditional network.
Moreover, Greyhound Express and BoltBus have always operated with Number of employees 7,000 7,500 airline-style yield management, real-time pricing and customer relationship systems, and we have been investing in recent years to bring these systems to bear on our much larger, traditional Greyhound Greyhounds US Dollar revenue decreased to $914.0m or 605.1m 2015: network nationwide.
From a passenger-facing perspective the key $986.0m or 609.6m in the year, reflecting the more difficult customer additions in the past year include our upgraded responsive website, demand environment experienced across the intercity coach industry new mobile apps which include Uber and Apple Wallet integration, since fuel prices fell sharply between September and December 2014. investment in customer relationship management systems and services While lower fuel prices reduce our own cost base they also improve the such as wheres my bus?
We are now retraining affordability of alternative forms of transport for some trips particularly and redeploying our passenger-facing terminal employees to focus on from airlines on longer distance trips, relative to Greyhound.
We were delivering an improved customer experience, both through the new encouraged by the relatively more resilient performance of our point-totechnologies available and by learning from the hospitality industry.
point Greyhound Express revenues, where like-for-like revenue decreased by 1.9% over the year, compared with a like-for-like decrease of 4.9% for All of these changes complement the complex transformation of the division as a whole.
The rate of revenue decline began to moderate ourentire pricing and ticketing business model, which has now over the course of the year: in our final quarter our overall like-for-like beenupgraded to give us access to algorithmic pricing and yield revenue decline for the division was 2.1%, and Greyhound Express management tools across our entire network of 3,800 locations revenues were flat compared with the prior year.
generating more than 50,000 different journey combinations in a typical month.
Amongst other opportunities, these tools will increase our ability By comparison with previous periods of significant fuel price reductions to stimulate demand throughout the macro-economic cycle, and allow we have been more successful flexing our business model by actively us to shift demand to off-peak times more easily, resulting in better managing timetables and other costs to partially mitigate the impact of utilisation of existing seat inventory.
This project enhances Greyhounds 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 3,800 destinations used in more Point-to-point service Greyhound than 50,000 journey combinations Express covers 1,000 city pair monthly across NorthAmerica combinations in 135 markets opportunities for growth, margin expansion and returns over the In a volatile demand environment, our financial performance is highly medium term.
The benefits of these new systems will take time to build dependent on our ability to rapidly flex mileage and to maintain tight as we develop our database of passenger demand trends and our control of all our operating costs.
Overall mileage was reduced across expertise in using the tools throughout our network.
The overhaul of our the business by 5.8% in the year.
We have also continued to review IT infrastructure has also allowed us to enhance our business model in ourlocation footprint and property portfolio for opportunities to improve other ways, such as permitting bus-side ticket scanning via a drivers the customer experience, which resulted in the disposal of properties smartphone app allowing real-time inventory management.
We will inRaleigh, Fresno and Baltimore in the year.
In addition, we took the continue to build on these systems in the future, including through decision to discontinue our separately branded YO!
Bus services, further changes to our loyalty programmes.
folding the key routes into our wider network.
We have also adjusted our marketing, maintenance and central overhead expenses and During the year we also extended our geographic presence, becoming practices to reflect the demand environment.
the first international coach operator to launch domestic services in Mexico, and we are pleased with the progress to date.
The Mexican Prudent investment in our key assets coach market offers significant opportunities for future growth.
Our most important area of investment is the customer experience programme to equip our traditional business with real-time dynamic Continuous improvement in operating pricing and yield management capabilities, together with improved  customer relationship management tools.
As the IT investment phase begins to wind down, our focus will move to enhancing employee training, particularly in the new tools becoming available to passengers.
In light of recent demand trends, we opted not to acquire additional vehicles during the year.
Our expansion into the Mexico domestic market which under relevant legislation is terminal-based did not require significant investment in the year, but is projected to increase over time.
Responsible partnerships with our customers andcommunities The increased customer engagement that our new systems are bringing will allow us to deliver a more personalised service, responsive to the individual needs of our passengers.
Through the rollout of a refreshed safety programme to our employees, we have made significant progress in the year across our key metrics.
Future priorities Completing the transformation of our business into a customer-centric, IT-enabled enterprise, with real-time pricing and yield management andthe latest customer relationship management capabilities is akeypriority in the coming years.
Coupled with the improvements already made to the on-board and terminal amenities, we have asignificant opportunity to revive Greyhounds iconic brand and reputation in the minds of customers.
We are also determined to Transformed web and smartphone improve our returns in Canada, which currently mask our performance in the US, and will seek to deliver on the growth opportunity we see in experiences the Mexican coach market.
Greyhound launched a newly redesigned website in the Greyhound, Greyhound Express and BoltBus now offer a productive, autumn that completely reinvents the way customers plan relaxing and cost-effective travel proposition for our customers across andbook bus travel.
Featuring a fresh, modern design, simple North America, with a business model that is cash generative and navigation and rich content, the site was built from the ground creates value for the Group.
Our systems upgrades are making this up to help our customers find the best fares, book more business more resilient and more capable of stimulating demand in a easily, and check out travel tips and suggestions for their next range ofmarket conditions.
During the year we have also completely redesigned our mobile app.
Both the new app and website allow users to Outlook easily and conveniently search schedules, book trips, find Although the passenger revenue decline trend has begun to moderate, terminal locations, access an updated loyalty scheme and we expect 2016 17 to be a year of muted passenger demand.
We track the real-time location of their bus.
anticipate modest margin benefits as our systems upgrades begin to build and we continue to flex operations in response to the demand Driving growth through attractive commercial environment, recognising the impact that fluctuations in the oil price propositions willcontinue to have.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 Business review First Bus Our strengths Strong position in the deregulated market outside London c. 20% market share First Bus Compelling positions in key markets operations in eight of the 11 most densely populated cities in the UK Repositioned to focus greater management expertise at the Our strategy is based on delivering local level, delivering tailored networks and fares for local needs an increasingly digitally enabled Proactive and responsible partner to our local authorities, experienced at working together to deliver passengers needs.
customer proposition, coupled with sustainably improved operating disciplines and restructuring costs of 3.8m 2015: 1.4m incurred in the year.
Overall strongpartnerships with wedelivered cost efficiencies of more than 20m in the year.
Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions Our local management teams are continually reviewing networks, timetables and pricing strategies to ensure we are focused on local market needs and growth opportunities.
We work closely with all our local authority partners as they respond to their own financial pressures and review their tendered services, looking to find ways to integrate such services into the commercial network wherever possible.
Giles Fearnley Networks serving universities and hospitals are also important to our Managing Director, First Bus local growth plans.
During the year we secured rights to serve both York and West of England university campuses and developed a commercial network serving Swansea Universitys new site.
We have 2016 2015 enhanced our service to Bristols Southmead Hospital and the new Queen Elizabeth University Hospital in Glasgow.
In Bristol several Revenue 870.9m 896.1m changes to key corridors and the night bus network have also contributed to good volume growth.
We have also been progressively Adjusted operating profit 52.0m 51.8m replacing single deck vehicles with double deckers to increase capacity.
However, our ambitions in Bristol and some other cities are Adjusted operating margin 6.0% 5.8% increasingly hindered by growing congestion, which frequently sees central Bristol gridlocked.
Number of employees 17,500 18,000 We continue to bid for tender contracts, securing a five year car park contract at Dublin Airport and beginning operation of the first Park & First Bus reported revenues of 870.9m 2015: 896.1m for the year, Ride service in Leeds.
We are the preferred bidder for the second.
withlike-for-like passenger revenue excluding the contribution from InManchester we secured the contract for Vantage, a flagship closure and disposal of businesses increasing by 0.3%.
Revenues inthe investment in BRT by Transport for Greater Manchester, which started second half of the year were adversely affected by lower than expected operating in April 2016.
We were also the lead contractor for the Rugby passenger volumes, driven by lower high street retail footfall, exceptionally World Cup, providing spectator transport to Twickenham and Milton wet weather, flooding and congestion impairing services inseveral of our Keynes stadia and VIP and media transport for all venues.
This has been coupled with a reduction in tendered contracts funded by local authorities in a number of our markets, and some Continuous improvement in operating evidence of lower fuel prices encouraging more car usage.
We continued  to experience weakening concessionary revenues throughout the year, Through our depot optimisation and maintenance enhancement while like-for-like commercial passenger revenues increased by 1.1%.
Our programmes, and continued investment in our bus fleet, we remain markets in the south of the UK continue to see more positive trends than focused on punctuality and service reliability, which alongside value our operations in the north and Scotland.
formoney are key drivers of passengers appetite for bus services.
We have been taking action throughout the year to offset the Wehave also delivered cost reductions of more than 20m in the year.
challenging market backdrop by merging or closing a number of Across the business, efficiencies have been delivered through reduced depots and reducing administrative overheads in order to maintain our fuel consumption and better procurement, scheduling and engineering margin progress.
Adjusted operating profit was 52.0m 2015: 51.8m processes.
We have further optimised our operating bases depots and adjusted operating margin was 6.0% 2015: 5.8%, after the atParkhead in Glasgow and Newcastle-under-Lyme have been closed 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 1.6m passengers per day Fleet of approximately 6,200 buses with operations transferring elsewhere.
In Colchester we invested in a A fundamental part of our transformation is fleet renewal.
In the year new depot replacing three sites, and Bracknell and Braintree operations wetook delivery of 385 vehicles and have announced a 70m order have been scaled back with certain services now operated from nearby fora further 305 buses since the year end.
All buses delivered since sites.
The year saw the closure of our Hereford depot and the sale of mid-2015 are equipped with Euro VI engines, Wi-Fi as standard and the residual South Devon business.
Structural changes have also been anincreasing number have USB charging points and next stop audio made to our final salary pension schemes to reduce cost.
These investments improve our customer offer, ensure our compliance with disability access legislation and make Undertakings dating back more than a decade, which placed several amajor contribution to the clean air agendas of the cities we serve.
restrictions on our flexibility to adjust fares and timetables in our Glasgow and Scotland East businesses, have now been lifted by the Competition Responsible partnerships with our customers and Markets Authority.
After the year end we announced the closure of andcommunities two depots in the region as we respond to current market conditions.
Buses remain a critical enabler of economic growth, with more commuters reliant on the UK national bus network every day than on Prudent investment in our key assets any other form of public transport.
We share the aim of local councils We continue to invest in our mobile and digital platforms to improve our and national Government to get more people out of their cars and customers ability to find service information more simply and reliably.
In November we welcomed confirmation that Government now offer mobile ticketing across all of our services and are developing funding of the Bus Services Operators Grant BSOG inEngland will enhanced mobile capability to provide multi-modal planning, real-time bemaintained through to 2020 21.
We are delighted thatthe new travel information and smart ticketing.
We are also working with data BusServices Bill gives strong support for enhanced partnerships and aggregators such as CityMapper and Google Transit to make our provides additional tools for councils and operators jointly to deliver real-time information more widely available.
Our website has been improvements for customers.
We believe that local authorities relaunched with easy to use journey planning, latest information and objectives for bus services in their area are best delivered through search functionality.
We have delivered our commitment to multi-operator partnerships where the commercial incentive remains with the operator, smart ticketing across the city regions in England and are working to rather than a complex franchise-based alternative which may not deliver a similar scheme for the key city regions in Scotland.
We have deliver changes or benefits for some years, and where financial risk also committed to work over the coming year with other operators to andadditional cost passes to the local authority.
develop plans to bring contactless EMV technology to our services.
We continue to explore opportunities to work in closer partnership with local authorities in our markets, building on the success we have had todate in increasing both passenger volumes and satisfaction.
In November the Sheffield Bus Partnership introduced a new network focused on the economic and social needs of the city while ensuring resources are closely matched with demand.
We have also worked to deliver a Rotherham Partnership and one for Doncaster implemented in May 2016.
In Cornwall, we are working increasingly closely with the County Council to deliver a fully integrated public transport network embracing information, ticketing and connections with rail.
We were asponsor of Bristol European Green Capital 2015, during which we trialled a number of bio-methane and advanced hybrid buses, which are influencing our discussions with Bristol on future fuel technologies.
Future priorities Our strategy is based on delivering an increasingly digitally enabled customer proposition coupled with sustainably improved operating disciplines and strong local authority partnerships.
We believe this is the most responsive, efficient and cost-effective way to deliver the outcomes Vantage BRT comes to Manchester that bus passengers, local authorities and taxpayers want and we will continue to enhance our ability to deliver these outcomes going forward.
North west Englands first guided busway, operated by First Manchester, opened in spring 2016 with a fleet of 20 highOutlook specification, low-emission hybrid buses.
The BRT services We expect market conditions to remain challenging in the year ahead.
are being delivered in partnership with Transport for Greater We therefore expect moderate margin progression from the fullyear Manchester and local authorities and are able to run free from benefits of past cost saving actions, additional cost and operational congestion on a 4.5 mile guided section providing rapid efficiency initiatives and some benefits from our fuel hedging connections for passengers.
Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Business review First Rail Our strengths Significant participant in the UK rail market since privatisation Experienced in running every type of passenger rail First Rail operation intercity, regional, commuter, sleeper and open access Strong commercial, rolling stock and major infrastructure upgrade project capabilities We continue to demonstrate the Highly experienced bidding team with a record of developing extensive operational strengths as disciplined bids that deliver for passengers and taxpayers.
well as the fleet and infrastructure upgrade capabilities that we have Focused and disciplined bidding built up through our involvement in In September we began operating Great Western Railway GWR under the rail industry since privatisation.
the commercial terms of a new direct award which runs to 1 April 2019, with a further extension of up to one year atthe discretion of the Department for Transport DfT.
TransPennine Express TPE also operated under the terms of ayear-long direct award during the course of the year but we wereawarded the competed franchise contract in December 2015.
Our newfranchise, which will operate from April 2016 until at least 2023, willresult in new, faster and more frequent intercity train services between the north of England and Scotlands major towns and cities.
Steve Montgomery Managing Director, First Rail Outside of franchising, the Office of Rail and Road ORR recently approved our application for new open access services between London, north east England and Edinburgh, offering a single class ofservice on a new fleet of trains designed to encourage travellers 2016 2015 toswitch from air or coach travel to rail.
The ten year track access agreement will allow us to start running five trains a day each way by Revenue 1,308.4m 2,207.1m 2021.
In March Hull Trains also secured a further ten years of track Adjusted operating profit 72.9m 74.1m access running until December 2029.
The agreement enables us to procure new bi-mode trains that will take full advantage of the benefits Adjusted operating margin 5.6% 3.4% of the electrified East Coast Mainline in due course.
Continuous improvement in operating Number of employees 7,500 7,500  We have a strong track record for close partnership working with Our First Rail division continues to benefit from growth in passenger Network Rail and other industry participants to deliver infrastructure volumes, which increased by 2.9% on a like-for-like basis, although upgrade projects whilst minimising disruption for passengers.
wehave experienced some slowing in passenger demand growth TheGovernments investment in rail infrastructure continues, with afterrecent terror attacks in Paris and Brussels and in areas affected the7.5bn investment in the Great Western Mainline and work on byflooding over the winter.
Our continuing operations increased theTransPennine route both key parts of the national programme.
Revenues declined on a Following Network Rails review of its schedule of projects, we are reported basis to1,308.4m 2015: 2,207.1m, reflecting the end of the working closely with them and with the DfT to support the substantial First Capital Connect and First ScotRail franchises.
infrastructure upgrades taking place throughout the network and Our financial performance was towards the top of our range of ensure delivery of work within appropriate timescales.
We also support expectations with adjusted operating profit of 72.9m 2015: 74.1m, the Shaw Reports conclusions which enhance the industrys focus on representing a margin of 5.6% 2015: 3.4%.
This reflects strong customer needsgoing forwards.
financial performances across all our networks as well as the change In March 2016 we finalised a formal alliance between GWR and inthe basis of estimate for accounting for pensions.
The latter change, Network Rail covering five key areas of working, committing both which has been made to more accurately reflect the commercial terms companies to a more aligned approach.
It covers improved joint of our current franchises and the pension contributions expected to be planning for major upgrade projects such as electrification, to help paid, had a full year benefit of 18.6m to operating profit.
minimise disruption for passengers as much as possible.
A similar partnership has been signed with TPE.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 5bn Around 5bn passenger miles 1,200 diesel and electric rolling travelled last year stock vehicles Introducing state-of-the-art intercity trains will mean faster and more Prudent investment in our key assets reliable journeys with more seats and luggage space.
The remaining With the commencement of the new GWR direct award in September vehicles will be extensively refurbished and our stations will also benefit 2015, we launched new branding which reflects the lines strong from 18m of investment in customer facilities.
During the year we heritage.
This change is consistent with our emphasis on developing continued to progress the roll out of free Wi-Fi services both on-train and local brands that connect with our customers and the communities in in-station throughout the GWR network and this will also be introduced which we operate.
Alongside the ongoing investment in the rail network, on all TPE trains and stations going forwards.
there will be a substantial fleet upgrade.
As well as the InterCity Express Responsible partnerships with our customers trains already due to be introduced during the direct award period, in andcommunities theyear we secured approval to procure 29 new long distance trains, In the latest independent Transport Focus National Rail Passenger creating more than 1,000 additional peak-time seats into and out of Survey completed during autumn 2015 all of FirstGroups three train Paddington every day.
Overall, we will create 3m more seats across the operating companies scored above the national average for customer network by December 2018, as well as quicker journey times and more satisfaction.
Hull Trains topped the national table with their highest ever frequent services.
score at 97%, ten points higher than the average of long-distance During the new TPE franchise more than 500m will be invested to operators.
GWR increased its year-on-year measure for overall transform rail services across the North and Scotland.
There will be satisfaction by three points to 84%, its highest score since the survey alarge increase in the number of carriages compared with today, began in 1999.
TPE scored 83%, up a point year-on-year.
providing 13m more seats, and the customer experience will be More than 40 schemes are benefiting in the year as part of GWRs enhanced over time with almost three quarters of the fleet being new.
2.2m Customer and Communities Improvement Fund, supporting social need in areas we serve.
A similar fund is being introduced by TPE which will continue to work with community groups across the network.
The team will also work with Job Centre Plus to provide discounted travel for jobseekers and help them back into the workforce, and will also provide discount schemes for 16 to 18 year olds and customers travelling in large groups.
Future priorities We continue to demonstrate the extensive operational strengths as well as the fleet and infrastructure upgrade capabilities that we have built up through our involvement in the rail industry since privatisation.
We have secured a longer future for all three of our rail operating companies as well as a new open access opportunity, and this gives us a strong position in First Rail to build on over the medium term.
With more than half of the UK rail network by passenger revenue expected to be refranchised by 2020, we will continue to examine each bidding opportunity on its merits.
Launch of new TPE signals start of Outlook 500m investment In the year ahead we are expecting the rate of passenger revenue TPE took over the reins of intercity rail operations in the North growth in our rail operations to moderate in line with recent industryand Scotland on 1 April 2016.
Over the next seven years TPE wide trends.
We expect our divisional margin after bid costs will will oversee an investment of more than 500m, which will rebase toward industry norms following the start of the new TPE lead to an 80% rise in capacity at the busiest times of the day franchise terms and the investments being made for the benefit and increase connections between the largest cities in the ofcustomers.
Over the next four years We will continue to be active in UK rail franchise bidding, where our the customer experience on our services will be reimagined approach has been and will continue to be disciplined, aiming to deliver with improved catering, more seats, faster trains, innovative ambitious improvements for passengers and appropriate returns for ticketing systems and shorter journey times.
We are also shareholders, at an acceptable level of risk.
committed to improving our response to delays and cancellations, with an automatic delay repay system implemented within 12 months and Wi-Fi at all TPE stations in2017.
We will be working hard over the next four years to achieve these major changes and create an outstanding intercity rail service that will take the North further.
Focused and disciplined bidding FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 19
