38 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Business review Construction Strategy We delivered a strong performance in Our strategy and performance against targets Construction, with an increase in revenue, can be found on pages 14 to 17. while managing our margin and cash Market Over the year to 30 June 2016, the position, and remaining selective about construction market continued to generate an the opportunities we take on.
improving pipeline of projects, although at a slower rate than previously anticipated.
Build cost increases moderated, and the availability HIGHLIGHTS of skilled labour improved across all regions.
The Governments pipeline of economic 5 Construction margin of 1.1% from revenue of 1,503 million and social infrastructure work was positive, 2015: 1.2% and 1,293 million respectively.
covering all the key sectors in which 5 Order book of 3.5 billion 2015: 3.5 billion.
we operate including the public and 5 82% of this years planned revenue secured 2015: 88%.
regulated sectors which represent 89% of our order book.
5 Cash continues to be strong at 161 million 2015: 173 million.
In regulated markets including water, rail and energy, where clients are often required to invest in line with the plans they agree with their regulators, demand was stable and we improved our order book, with good visibility on projected revenue for FY 2017 and FY 2018.
Black Rock Specialist Training facility near Portishead PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 Revenue m 1,503.4 1,293.2 Profit from operations m 15.8 15.7 Operating profit margin % 1.1 1.2 Order book bn 3.5 3.5 Revenue by division Order book by division 3.5bn 1,503.4m Building 1,013.8mBuilding 2,340m Infrastructure 489.6mInfrastructure 1,160m Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 39 In the public sector, there were high levels We continue to focus on risk management, While conditions in the supply chain are of anticipated spend in education and in margin and targeting work with acceptable easing, there remains strong competition defence-related work, such as repurposing returns.
Operating margin was 1.1% for particular capabilities such as building old sites for the defence estate, which we compared to 1.2% in 2015, benefiting from services and people with project benefited from.
new projects being won at appropriate management and commercial skills.
margins and including inflation allowances.
This requires us to be selective about the Many public sector clients procure through Legacy contracts continued to constrain work we take on, only accepting contracts frameworks.
Gaining positions on these margins.
Due to the finalisation of these we have the capacity to deliver.
We want has been a key focus of our Construction contracts and the settlement of their final to be a preferred client for our key supply business, and this continued throughout accounts, these contracts are unlikely to chain partners, and we piloted an initiative the year.
achieve the levels of margin at which we are called Advantage through Alignment in our The private sector market remained steady, now winning work, and will consequently Southern business this summer.
This gives with opportunities in the commercial sector hold back the reported figure in FY 2017. our key suppliers visibility of our pipeline where work came through in London and and helps them to plan their workload.
Cash remains a prime focus in Construction the surrounding areas, such as Thames We are also using technology to enhance and we continued to manage it carefully.
Valley, and activity in other major cities collaboration between us, our clients and Year end cash balances in Construction were such as Birmingham.
161.1 million, representing 11% of revenue Performance 2015: 173 million and 13% respectively.
Other important initiatives include Delivering Construction performed well and delivered Excellence, which focuses on quality and At 30 June 2016, our order book was revenue growth and margins in line with the use of technology such as Building 3.5 billion 2015: 3.5 billion.
Information Modelling to handover defect 73% was in the public sector 2015: 72%, and snag-free buildings to our clients.
Revenue was 16% higher at 1,503.4 16% was in regulated industries 2015: 15% The programme is currently being piloted million 2015: 1,293.2 million, with the and 11% was in the private sector 2015: and we intend to embed it in our way of increase driven by both the Building 13%.
Importantly, 74% of our order book doing business.
We are also engaging with and Infrastructure businesses.
is in frameworks 2015: 69%, which is an clients to understand their business plans, unprecedented position for us.
The level of what their expectations of us are and work we generate through frameworks is how our capabilities can help deliver their a significant advantage, as they allow us objectives.
This aligns with our collaborative to work collaboratively with clients, gain a approach and our focus on risk deep understanding of their needs and build management.
Looking forward, we want expertise through delivering repeat projects.
to embed a lean mindset in everything we Our approach to collaboration, which do, helping us to drive out process waste has been accredited to BS 11000, makes at every opportunity.
us attractive to public and regulated sector clients who often procure through We and our clients, particularly those in frameworks.
We continue to enhance the public sector, have a strong focus on the way we work and will be introducing delivering community benefits.
We work a new platform for our Business hard to employ local people, including Management System which covers the apprentices, and aspire to more closely align full range of processes employed across the diversity of our employees to that of the Construction, including commercial and communities we work in.
Our success with quality management processes, best the Considerate Constructors Scheme also practice and lessons learned.
The new reflects our community focus, with two of platform will make this content both easier our projects winning Gold awards this year.
to access and to use, helping us to drive consistency across the business and deliver better outcomes for clients.
Award-winning construction We gained recognition from both RIBA and RICS at their regional awards for the work we did in delivering a specialist firearms training facility for Avon & Somerset Police Authority.
The unique facility near Portishead provides a centre to train UK and overseas professionals with a 50m and 100m firing range, tactical training areas and office space.
40 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Business review continued Construction Building PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 Revenue m 1,013.8 906.9 Profit from operations m 9.0 8.0 Operating profit margin % 0.9 0.9 Order book m 2,340 2,390 During the year, Building secured a number Education frameworks continue to provide The Scottish Hub operations are also busy of key projects and continued to implement a healthy pipeline of work and we are now in education and in healthcare, including its framework strategy.
It won a place on a key contractor to the Education Funding the award of the 55 million Anderson the Ministry of Defences South West and Agency EFA.
We reached financial close High School in the Shetland Islands, South East Next Generation Estate Contracts with the EFA for the 48.5 million North and the 43.3 million construction of the new regional frameworks, which are worth up to North East Lincolnshire batch of schools Largs education campus for North Ayrshire 1 billion in total over four years.
Building was and the 41.9 million Greenwich, Lewisham Council and the 72 million East Lothian also appointed to the YORbuild2 framework, and Croydon batch.
which covers 91 local authorities in the North Other notable wins in the education sector In the commercial building sector, we won of England and has a potential pipeline of included a contract with Birmingham a 66 million contract to construct the approximately 1.9 billion over four years.
City University to build the 46 million 2 Arena Central building in Birmingham, Conservatoire, a 62 million contract with which will include 210,000 sq ft of office Newcastle University to construct the space.
We were also awarded a 40 million Park View Student Village and a 40 million contract to construct 185,000 sq ft of contract to provide student accommodation office space in the Forbury Place at Coventry University.
Key framework positions in Building Education Funding Agency EFA Contractors Framework North and South Next Generation Estate Contracts NGEC Regional Capital Works Framework with Defence Infrastructure Organisation ProCure22 NHS Procurement Framework Southern Construction Framework covering the South West, South East and London, and North West Construction Hub Crown Commercial Services Facilities Management Framework Positions on Hub North, South East and South West in Scotland 01.
Leading in the commercial sector Our track record in the commercial sector was showcased at the British Council for Offices London and South East Awards.
The major structural refurbishment of an iconic City building, now known as Alphabeta, won Refurbished Recycled Workplace of the Year.
Alphabeta in Central London Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 41 Construction Key framework positions Infrastructure in Infrastructure Highways England Capital PERFORMANCE Delivery Framework Manchester Airports Group 2016 2015 Capital Delivery Framework Revenue m 489.6 386.3 AMP6 Yorkshire Water, Profit from operations m 6.8 7.7 Scottish Water and Southern Water Operating profit margin % 1.4 2.0 North East Procurement Organisation Smart Motorways Order book m 1,160 1,110 Infrastructure secured several significant and Environment Agency frameworks all 02. wins during the year.
Our joint venture with continue to provide good workstreams.
Queensferry Crossing, Costain was appointed as a delivery partner Firth of Forth Infrastructure was also appointed to a new by Highways England for its Smart We continue to make good progress on framework for the North East Procurement the Queensferry Crossing over the Firth Motorways programme, which has a total Organisation, which represents 12 local of Forth.
It is the largest infrastructure framework value of 1.5 billion.
The joint authorities in the region.
The framework project in Scotland for a generation and venture has been allocated three the single largest project let by Transport has a total value of between 900 million construction packages, with a value to Scotland to date.
We have worked with and 1.2 billion over four years.
Galliford Try of more than 180 million.
Transport Scotland for more than 30 years, reflecting our desire and ability In addition, we secured a three-year The water frameworks in England, Scotland to form long-term partnerships with our extension to our Urban Vision joint venture and Wales are well underway and we clients and our ability to deliver schemes with Salford City Council and Capita.
have been awarded a 75 million package of national distinction.
Urban Vision provides technical services of biomass energy plants.
In addition, to the council.
The extension is worth up Manchester Airports Group, Network Rail to 30 million to Galliford Try.
Queensferry Crossing, Firth of Forth Photo courtesy of FCBC 42 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Business review continued Construction PPP Investments 2016 2015 Revenue m 25.0 28.8 Profit loss from operations m 1.4 3.7 Directors valuation m 21.5 18.1 During the year, we invested 6.6 million Our positions on three Hub frameworks in Outlook in equity and disposed of investments, Scotland produced a healthy pipeline of work The construction market is positive, not least generating an aggregate profit on disposal due to our performance and collaborative because of the substantial infrastructure of 0.5 million, compared to a 6.6 million approach.
There were delays to closing a renewal required in the UK.
However, the profit on disposal in 2015. number of PPP contracts in Scotland in the speed of some work coming through in the first half of the financial year while a public public sector remains slower than expected.
The directors valuation of our PPP sector accounting classification issue was While it is too early to predict how the portfolio was 21.5 million at 30 June resolved.
We took the opportunity to review construction market will perform following 2016, compared with a value invested opportunities in other markets and have the EU referendum, our solid order book and of 16.2 million 2015 valuation: 18.1 million, developed new models for the student focus on the public and regulated sectors value invested: 10.2 million.
housing, energy service company and give us a strong position going forward.
In addition to making its own investments, private rented sectors, which positions We will remain disciplined in our approach.
PPP Investments continued to generate us well for the future.
While it is desirable to maintain some scale new work for our Building, Infrastructure of operations, we will always prioritise the and facilities management businesses, quality of the order book over the quantity.
with projects closed during the year adding over 300 million to their order books.
These projects included Anderson High School in the Shetland Islands, and Kelso & Newbattle high schools.
Bringing award-winning schemes to fruition Galashiels Transport Interchange, which was delivered by Hub South East Scotland for Scottish Borders Council, was named Town Centre Regeneration Project of the Year at this years Scottish Property Awards.
Galashiels Transport Interchange Strategic Report Governance Financial Information G Ga al ll li if for ord d T Tr ry y p pl lc c A Ann nnu ua all R Re epor port t a an nd d F Fiina nan ncia ciall S St ta at te em me en nt ts s 2 20 01 16 6 43 43 Operating sustainably Being sustainable brings value to our business and stakeholders, and underpins everything we do.
Our approach is strategic, based on systematically identifying, managing and mitigating our impact.
We set key targets at a Group level and combine these with stakeholder and business aligned divisional targets in our Sustainability Route Maps.
For another year, we have retained our membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
44 46 48 Health and safety Our people Resources and relationships Embedding health Attracting and Optimising resource and safety into the retaining the efficiency and building core of our culture very best talent mutually positive relationships
