34 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Business review Partnerships and Regeneration Strategy Partnerships and Regeneration delivered Our strategy and performance against targets strong growth in mixed-tenure revenues can be found on pages 14 and 17. and operating margin.
Market Partnerships delivers contracting services to housing associations and local authorities, building affordable homes on their behalf, and is increasingly a developer of mixedHIGHLIGHTS tenure projects, which includes private housing for sale.
5 Growth in mixed-tenure revenue to 67 million from For the last three decades, the UK has 526 completions 2015: 56 million and 408 respectively.
underinvested in affordable housing, 5 Contracting revenue lower at 234 million 2015: 273 million, creating a historic deficit, relying on various slightly constrained by procurement delays following the mechanisms for supply.
The supply of new affordable homes rose 5 Margin improving to 3.9% 2015: 2.9%.
Housing associations are 5 Growth in landbank to 2,700 2015: 2,200 plots.
the main procurers of affordable homes and 5 New Bristol office opened in July 2016 and a new although some local authorities are increasing Central Southern office planned for FY 2017. their provision, they remain a comparatively small part of the market.
5 Contracting order book of 850 million 2015: 825 million and mixed-tenure sales carried forward of 45 million.
5 Partnerships and Regeneration teams merged to enhance strategic and operational focus.
1 Source: Department for Communities and Local Government.
765 Finchley Road, North West London PERFORMANCE 2016 2015 Revenue m 300.6 329.4 Profit from operations m 11.7 9.4 Operating profit margin % 3.9 2.9 Completions 526 408 Equivalent contracting units 1,600 1,800 Order book m 850 825 Order book Revenue 300.6m 850m Data TBC Data TBC North 297mContracting 233.9m South East 402mMixed-tenure 66.7m Central 120m South West 31m Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 35 The Governments rent reforms significantly We completed 526 private units at an Despite the pause in our clients procurement reduced housing associations budgets, average selling price of 166,000 and around activities in the first half, Partnerships slowing their procurement of contracting 1,600 equivalent contracting units.
Profit won new contracting work during the services while they reassessed their plans.
from operations rose from 9.4 million to year.
The business continued its successful The rent reforms are likely to increase the 11.7 million representing a margin of 3.9% relationship with the ExtraCare Charitable attraction of mixed-tenure schemes, allowing 2015: 2.9%.
Trust and was contracted to build a housing associations to cross-subsidise 45 million Extra Care village in High The increase in mixed-tenure revenue was affordable homes by producing some Wycombe, and the 42 million Stoke the primary driver of the margin increase, housing for private sale.
The reforms are Gifford Retirement Village.
as we successfully implemented our strategy also encouraging mergers between housing to invest cash generated by the business Partnerships was also one of six contractors associations, making the enlarged contracting operations, as well as the 30 appointed to North Yorkshire County organisations some of the biggest providers million of debt funding we have previously Councils Extra Care Housing Programme of homes in the country.
Partnerships ended the year Framework, which has an anticipated value make our proposition in Partnerships an with mixed-tenure sales carried forward of of up to 650 million over six years, and was attractive choice, given our capabilities.
45 million 2015: 43 million and a landbank selected for five of the eight lots available Performance of 2,700 plots 2015: 2,200.
The business under the Hyde Housing Group Main There was some disruption to our registered achieved planning consent on nine mixedContractor Framework Agreement.
The provider clients procurement activities in tenure sites during the year.
framework is anticipated to be worth up to the first half of the year, as they reassessed 1 billion.
Overall, Partnerships contracting their business plans in light of the order book increased by 3% to 850 million Governments rent reforms, however, at the year end 2015: 825 million.
revenue from mixed-tenure developments continued to grow strongly.
As a result, 66.7 million or 22% of Partnerships revenue in the year came from mixed-tenure developments, with the remaining 233.9 million from contracting.
Delivery of high quality Supporting our people mixed-tenure homes One of our biggest strengths as 765 Finchley Road is a development a business is the quality of our people.
for Affinity Sutton comprising 80 Testament to this, Sue Bamgboye, new high-quality mixed-tenure a Project Quantity Surveyor in our homes.
It builds on our already strong Partnerships business, was a finalist for relationship with Affinity Sutton a Women In Construction & Engineering and underlines our commitment to award.
Sue has been supported by the deliver both affordable and private business since joining in 2010 and is homes for sale.
now a mentor to other young people, and particularly women, in the Group.
Supporting Women In Construction & Engineering 36 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Business review continued Partnerships and Regeneration Management We continued to look for ways to improve Strong community relationships are critical With effect from 1 July 2016, we combined our efficiency and effectiveness.
This for us, given the nature of our business.
our Affordable Housing & Regeneration included rolling out the Linden Homes We were therefore pleased to run a pilot teams with Partnerships in order to build Layouts, which we jointly developed with for the Considerate Constructors Schemes upon the complementary knowledge and Linden Homes and which also include new Ultra Site initiative.
We are one of six expertise within both businesses.
This will standard layouts for affordable homes.
organisations trialling this concept, which allow us to strengthen our strategic offering aims to raise industry standards and To support our business strategy growth, we in this area while providing greater clarity collaboration among clients, contractors, developed our own Business Management to clients and investors.
Stephen Teagle subcontractors and suppliers.
Partnerships had previously became Chief Executive of the enlarged pleased to win our first Gold award under used Constructions BMS, which included Partnerships and Regeneration business the Considerate Constructors Scheme, a wide range of processes that were not core also with effect from 1 July 2016. for our Grange Avenue project near Preston.
to our business, such as those relating to Geographical expansion is a key part of infrastructure projects.
This has allowed us Outlook Partnerships growth strategy.
We opened to reduce the number of processes in our We see excellent prospects for the our new office in Bristol in July 2016, giving system by half, and to add new processes Partnerships business and intend to set us six offices across England and South such as those covering land buying which we ambitious growth plans over the next three Wales, and plan to open a new Central drew from Linden Homes.
There are significant opportunities Southern office in FY 2017, and further accredited to BS 11001 in October 2015. to capture investment in the private rental, offices over the coming years.
Strong mixed-tenure, affordable housing and Business improvements for next year regional businesses and sector knowledge regeneration sectors.
Building on our will include reviewing our customer care are critical elements of our sustainable experience and relationships with public processes to ensure a consistently high level growth plans.
We also see opportunities sector commissioners, we will use our of care across the business.
We carefully to grow in the private rental sector and skills in housebuilding and placemaking monitor customer satisfaction, through are in discussions with investors and to deliver an increase in the number of new NHBC surveys on mixed-tenure projects local authorities who are interested in homes we provide.
and client questionnaires for contracting.
We will also work with our supply chain to ensure proper recovery of costs for rectifying defects.
Great Eastern Quays in East London Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 37 Partnerships and Regeneration MARKET OPPORTUNITY We are setting ambitious plans to take advantage of the significant opportunities in the private rental, mixed-tenure, affordable housing and regeneration sectors to support our strategy for growth.
Exeter 6 Current operating areas Potential operating area 01.
Specialising in regeneration in Partnerships In our largest ever single project, we are building the 81 million Great Eastern Quays project in East London on behalf of Notting Hill Housing.
The regeneration scheme involves creating up to 350 mixed-tenure homes, as well as developing public spaces alongside the river and the docks, business, retail and leisure areas.
Improving the image of construction As a Group, we once again demonstrated our commitment to improving the image of construction with 30 Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS National Site Awards and Runner Up prize for Most Considerate Site of the Year.
We are proud to have gone one step further and demonstrated industry-leading best practice at Protheroe House in East London, which has been selected as an Ultra Site pilot for CCS.
