Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 24 Resources and relationships continued can only be delivered through highly we continue to deliver for our customers.
Apprenticeships competent, engaged and diligent people.
The revised survey will also be implemented At some point in time all employees will Key to our success is retaining employees across all of the Group companies to retire and over the last 20 years the Group who build long-term relationships with our ensure we are measuring engagement has run a highly successful apprentice customers and we are proud that our consistently across the Group and also programme.
Since 2012 we have employee retention levels are high.
In 2016, facilitate comparison across the entities enhanced this programme through central our retention rate was 92% and, when within the Ibstock family.
co-ordination and standardisation of the combined with our service profile, A variety of methods are used to engage programme to ensure all apprentices are demonstrates a sustainable organisation with employees, including factory and team trained to a consistent standard, including where people feel valued and believe we meetings: departmental briefings: and specific sign off within the organisation in are a good employer.
The Group will use addition to that of the training provider.
This Ibstock Brick, the largest operating one or more of these channels to brief focus ensures that we mitigate the risk of company within the Group, has run employees on the Groups performance an ageing workforce and harness the skills employee opinion surveys for the last and the financial and economic factors and experience of these people so that when 18 years.
Consistently our response rates affecting the Groups performance.
they retire their replacement is fully trained have been in excess of 80% and allow us and competent to take over their role.
In particular, the Group operates a to identify specific improvement areas Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme, and formulate action plans to consistently Employee engagement which is open to eligible employees, where improve employee engagement.
The employees are encouraged to save a fixed Customer satisfaction begins and ends survey will be comprehensively revised to monthly sum for a period of three years.
with the relationship they have with our ensure that we fully capture the true drivers There has been a great level of participation employees and delighting our customers of employee engagement and ensure that from Ibstock employees, with 46% of eligible staff choosing to enrol in the 2015 16 SAYE scheme.
Innovation The Group continually seeks to improve the quality of its existing products and processes, as well as to introduce new products through innovation and investments in new technology.
The Groups innovation efforts are primarily pursued at each of the Groups four primary operating businesses.
In 2016, within Ibstock Brick we added 40 new bricks to our range resulting in close to 10 million sales.
The UK brick range is already the most extensive in the market and our innovative focus to expand the colour, size and texture options available, as well as Apprentice of the Year 2016 entering new markets, continues to ensure that our range remains market leading.
High quality combined with efficient and In a mixture of both classroom and Further examples of innovative products innovative manufacturing has always been practical learning, graduates of the and concepts developed during 2016, central to the popularity and continued apprenticeship scheme achieve include: the Supreme Scorpion clip growth of the Groups products.
In 2012, externally recognised academic and anti-theft device within our fencing range: it was recognised that to develop a future vocational qualifications.
the Perfect Outlet marketing concept focused workforce ready to meet the ever Now in its fourth year, the Apprentice where working with our builders merchant increasing technical expertise and skills of the Year scheme is an opportunity customers we offer an approach which needed to manufacture the Groups to celebrate exceptional performance.
helps us sell more together: and our market products, then the apprenticeship scheme This years award went to Jack Travers, changing new roof tile within Forticrete would need to be redeveloped to create a technical apprentice at Ibstock Bricks showcased on pages 16 and 17. a pool of engineering and technical Throckley factory.
And who in future would Furthermore, at Group level, innovation is help drive forward innovation and pursued through collaborative projects manufacturing excellence.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 The Group has a strong track record of Also in 2017, our tax strategy will be In addition to the Greenhouse Gas award-winning products, including: disclosed in accordance with new Emission figures, set out in the table above, Government requirements and published the Group also utilises a number of other Brick Development Association BDA on the Groups website.
Working with our key measures in assessing the Awards Ibstock Brick has a 10-year advisers and building upon the internal effectiveness of its environmental policies.
track record of award wins having been taxation strategy and governance policy These are set out within our Environmental in over 70 more than half of the award already in place, management is developing report, which we issued as a full Group for winning categories and six of the this document to provide details of the the first time in May 2016. supreme award winners: Groups approach to the management of Link to our Environmental report Queens Award for Enterprise awarded in tax risk and its attitude to tax planning.
com 2001 for Forticretes Gemini roof tile, which was also awarded Millennium Products Environment and Water is essential in our manufacturing status by the Design Council: and engagement processes and we are committed to Brick in Architecture Awards Glen-Gery reducing our dependence on our use of The Group, like any successful business, has won numerous awards across a Mains water, which has a far higher carbon must be conscious of the impacts its broad range of categories in the last footprint that non-Mains water.
We carefully operations have on the environment and five years.
monitor the usage of water by source and the communities in which it operates.
The report our performance in this area within Group recognises its responsibilities as a our Environmental report.
Responsible business manufacturer to reduce the environmental impact of its activities.
Ibstock is committed Landfill is a finite resource and becoming As the laws governing business dealings to introducing environmental management increasingly scarce.
As a Group, we wish become ever more complex we need to systems and all of our UK businesses are to move towards Zero waste to landfill ensure the judgements and decisions we now accredited with ISO 14001 the and we follow an established hierarchy make are taken with both the knowledge International Environmental Management for waste management, monitoring the and application of the highest ethical standard.
In addition to this, we continue to amount of waste to landfill per tonne of principles.
During 2015, we updated and invest in energy efficiency, CO reduction, 2 production as we aim to achieve this.
re-issued our Code of Business Conduct the generation of electricity from landfill gas and Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies The Group is proud of its long history of and the recycling of raw materials, such as to continue to ensure that we operate in being part of the local communities in which process water, to minimise waste and cost.
an open, fair and honest manner in all of it operates.
Each of the companies within our business dealings.
We have also the Ibstock family provides financial support, Greenhouse Gas GHG implemented our Trade Associations Policy and is actively engaged in, these Emission figures to help support employees in their dealings communities.
This involvement ranges with fellow employees, customers, from financial support for community Tonnes of CO2e suppliers, regulators and colleagues in Greenhouse Gas projects to stakeholder engagement Emission source 2016 2015 competing businesses.
We believe that relating to quarry extensions.
Our these sound, ethical principles will help us Scope 1 Combustion Environmental report sets out several case of fuel and operation of to act at all times with honesty and studies from across the Group illustrating facilities 426,173 512,854 integrity, constantly striving to operate in how we have engaged with local Scope 2 Electricity 72,276 78,186 the best interests of our business.
Ibstock plc is a member help ensure that Ibstock plc continues to Intensity ratio: Tonnes of of Business in the Community.
maintain and enhance its excellent CO e per tonne of 2 1 production 0.19 0.18 reputation as a Group that everyone can trust and wants to do business with.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data has been collected from the majority of locations operated or The Group is aware of its obligations under controlled by the Group, with some estimations used for the US subsidiary entitys locations and immaterial the Human Rights Act and seeks to act UK subsidiaries.
UK Government conversion factors accordingly in all aspects of its operations.
and EUETS verified emissions have been used.
Additionally, during the year, the Group has Emission sources falling outside the Groups operational control and other Scope 3 emissions prepared its Modern Slavery policy for have not been collated and reported.
communication to its employees and The Group has used CO2 per tonne of production as suppliers.
This sets out the Groups zero its intensity ratio as this is the most appropriate and tolerance approach to this international relevant factor associated with our activities and should provide an appropriate basis on which to crime.
In our aim to be transparent about compare trends over time.
the steps and preventative measures 1 The GHG intensity ratio reported differs to that implemented to tackle modern slavery, our reported in the 2015 Annual Report & Accounts statement regarding Modern Slavery will be 0.21 following recalculation following external environmental audit.
published in 2017 on the Groups website.
