Strategic Report Business Review Sports Fashion Outdoor Sports Fashion has had an exceptional year with The Outdoor fascias have made pleasing progress in operating profits before exceptional items increased the year with the operating loss before exceptional by 49% to 162.9 million 2015: 109.3 million.
items reduced to 4.0 million 2015: 7.1 million with Our fascias have successfully exploited the buoyant the loss in the current year arising largely from initial market for branded athletic footwear and apparel across losses and other significant property related costs Western Europe with like for like store sales growth associated with the newer larger space Ultimate in excess of 10% for the second consecutive year.
Whilst Outdoors stores which remain a trial at this stage.
we would not expect a third year of organic growth We are encouraged that the original Blacks and at this level, the JD fascia is developing well in both its Millets fascia stores have delivered a breakeven result.
Margins were improved over the full year with reduced Our global brand partners support our continued levels of discounting of Autumn and Winter ranges international development and we would anticipate relative to the prior year.
We are striving for further further significant investments in the current year.
improvements in margins in this year as the Indeed, we have already made one investment in the merchandising and commercial disciplines increasingly Netherlands market through the acquisition of the align themselves with the core JD team.
However, trade and store assets of Aktiesport and Perry Sport in a sector with significant presence from retailers from the trustee in bankruptcy of Unlimited Sports with a high proportion of private label product in their Group BV.
We are currently assessing the Aktiesport proposition, more significant improvements in margin and Perry Sport store portfolio in order to create a will require enhanced levels of product differentiation viable and sustainable business across the Netherlands.
and other support from the major brands.
As anticipated, the overall gross margin in Sports Fashion is slightly lower than the previous year reflecting the impact of the weaker Euro through the majority of the year on the JD fascias Euro denominated businesses where product is sourced Peter Cowgill and distributed from the UK.
Whilst the Euro has Executive Chairman strengthened since the year end, we are mindful 13 April 2016 of the potential impact of increased volatility in margin as the results of the European businesses increase in relative importance.
We continue to work on mitigating any adverse currency impacts with our global brand partners.
We are satisfied with the progress in the Chausport business in France and the Sprinter business in Spain and are also pleased to report a turnaround in the trading performance of Kukri, our supplier of multisport kit for schools, universities and sports teams at all levels.
Finally, we believe that we have successfully established Tessuti and Scotts as premium brand multichannel fashion retailers based on our strong relationships with the major global premium brands where we foster their brand equity to secure product longevity and stimulate further growth.
