Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Financial Review Continuing Businesses Revenue, Gross Margin and Overheads Working Capital and Cash Total revenue increased by 20% in the year to 1,821.7 Strong cash generation from the ongoing trading in our million 2015: 1,522.3 million.
Like for like sales for core retail fascias combined with further management the 52 week period across all Group fascias, including focus on driving improvements in stock management those in Europe, increased by 11.6%.
disciplines has meant that we ended the year with a net cash balance in excess of 200 million for the first time.
Total gross margin in the year of 48.5% was broadly The positive cash position provides the Group with a consistent with the prior year with an increase in the strong financial foundation for our ongoing retail margin in Outdoor to 43.3% 2015: 42.2% offset by developments, both in the UK and internationally.
a slight reduction in the margin in Sports Fashion to Whilst there were no acquisitions in the year to 49.0% 2015: 49.2%.
30 January 2016, we will continue to make selected acquisitions and investments, as we have done recently Operating Profits and Results in the Netherlands, where they benefit our strategic Operating profit before exceptional items increased development.
substantially by 56.7 million to 158.9 million 2015: 102.2 million driven by the performance in Sports On 1 September 2015, the Group amended and Fashion assisted by a further reduction in the losses extended its syndicated committed 155 million bank in Outdoor.
facility which previously expired on 11 October 2017.
The facility has been amended by increasing the There were net exceptional items in the year of syndicated committed facility by 60 million to 215 25.5 million 2015: 9.5 million from the impairment million.
The expiry date has also been extended by of certain intangible assets and the write off of costs two years and so the amended facility now expires on the project to replace the Groups core IT systems.
We took the decision not to continue with this project as we believe that enhanced internally developed Gross capital expenditure excluding disposal costs systems will enable further growth of the Group, increased by 13.3 million to 83.5 million 2015: 70.2 including increasing internationalisation, with more million.
Our continuing commitment to enhancing our agility, lower cost and reduced risk.
customers experience, including the development of the new flagship concept, and to developing our overseas The exceptional items comprised: businesses means that investment in our retail fascias, both in terms of taking new stores where appropriate and refurbishing existing space, remains very substantial 2016 2015 with the spend on our retail fascias increasing by 14.5 m m million to 51.7 million 2015: 37.2 million.
Impairment of intangible assets 1 10.6 5.1 Termination of project to replace core IT systems 2 14.9 We anticipate a further increase in capital expenditure in the new financial year although the ultimate level Other property related items 4.4 of spend will depend on the final availability of Total exceptional charge 25.5 9.5 appropriate retail sites.
R elates to the impairment in the period to Elsewhere, we have now completed the project 30 January 2016 of the goodwill arising in prior to increase the operational capacity and flexibility years on the acquisition of ActivInstinct Limited, of our Kingsway warehouse at a cost in the year of a partial impairment of the Blacks fascia name and 9.7 million 2015: 11.5 million.
We have also acquired the impairment of other goodwill and fascia name a plot of land next to our existing Kingsway site at a cost balances which were not significant.
The charge in of 4.7 million to facilitate future development.
the prior period related to the goodwill arising in prior years on the acquisition of Blacks Outdoor Taxation Retail Limited, the goodwill arising in prior years The effective rate of tax on profit from continuing on the acquisition of Kukri Sports Limited, the operations has increased from 22.9% to 23.5% Kukri brand name and the Ark fascia name.
primarily due to impairments of non-current assets which do not qualify for tax relief and prior year 2.
One off e xceptional charge writing off costs to adjustments.
Excluding both exceptional items and date including certain other related costs.
prior year adjustments from the tax charge, the effective core rate from continuing activities has Group profit before tax in the year ultimately increased decreased from 22.4% to 21.4%.
This core effective by 45% to 131.6 million 2015: 90.5 million.
rate continues to be above the standard rate due to depreciation of non-current assets which do not qualify for tax relief and overseas subsidiaries being subject to higher rates of corporation tax than the UK.
Strategic Report Financial Review Continuing Businesses continued Earnings per Share Foreign Exchange Exposures The basic earnings per share from continuing operations The Group has two principal foreign exchange has increased by 42.6% from 35.17p to 50.16p.
However, exposures: the Directors consider the adjusted earnings per share to be a more appropriate measure of the Groups 1.
T he sourcing of own brand merchandise from either underlying earnings performance since it excludes the the Far East or Indian Sub-Continent which usually post-tax effect of exceptional items other than the loss has to be paid for in US Dollars.
A buying rate is set on disposal of non-current assets.
The strong trading at the start of the buying season typically six to nine performance in the year is reflected in the fact that the months before product is delivered to stores.
At this adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations point, the Group aims to protect the anticipated has increased by 57.7% from 38.89p to 61.34p.
US Dollar requirement at rates at, or above, the buying rate through appropriate foreign exchange Dividends instruments.
The Groups forecast requirement for A final cash dividend of 6.20p per share is proposed, US Dollars in the period to January 2017 is now which if approved, would represent an increase of $100 million.
Cover is in place for 2016 for $85 million 5.1% on the final dividend from the prior year.
Added meaning that the Group is currently exposed on to the interim dividend of 1.20p per share, this takes exchange rate movements for $15 million of the the full year dividend to 7.40p, which is an increase current years estimated requirement.
The dividend has risen by 64% since 2010.
We believe that this level of dividend 2.
T he Group is also exposed to the movement in the strikes a fair balance for shareholders with appropriate rate of the Euro from the sale of its UK sourced capital retained to facilitate ongoing developments, stocks to its subsidiaries in Europe.
However, the particularly investment in the international Sports Group has an element of a natural hedge on this Fashion fascias, which will drive success for the Group, exposure as the Euros received for that stock are and increased benefits to shareholders, over the then reinvested back in those European subsidiaries longer term.
to fund the development of both new stores and refurbishments.
The anticipated surplus over and Treasury Facilities above the planned investment levels in the period Interest rate hedging has not been put in place on the to January 2017, pre any potential acquisition current facility.
The Directors continue to be mindful activity to be funded in Euros, is 160 million.
of the potential for rises in UK base rates as the Hedging contracts are in place to sell 122 million general economic situation improves but, at present, meaning that the Group is currently exposed on given the highly seasonal nature of the Groups core exchange rate movements for 38 million of the cashflows, they do not believe that a long term interest current years estimated surplus.
This position continues to be reviewed regularly.
Working capital remains well controlled with suppliers continuing to be paid to agreed terms and settlement discounts taken whenever due.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 13 April 2016 55 55 55 Strategic Report
