EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 18 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager believes ability to assess how the Company has performed.
To assist it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews this policy.
shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic Report sets out the Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the Company will structure and objective of the Company, its investment policies and remain invested in the range of 90-120% under normal market risk management, investment limits and restrictions, performance conditions.
and key performance indicators, share capital, the Companys The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the number environmental, social and ethical policy, principal risks and how of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated the Company seeks to manage those risks and finally its long term portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong emerging markets equity Structure and Objective of the Company team who are based across the world.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc is an investment It should be noted that historically, emerging market companies trust company that has a premium listing on the London Stock and investments in their shares have shown greater volatility and Exchange.
Its objective is to maximise total return from emerging may be subject to certain political and corporate governance risks markets worldwide through a diversified portfolio of underlying which are not typically associated with more developed markets investments.
In seeking to achieve this objective the Company and economies.
employs JPMF to actively manage the Companys assets.
The Board has determined an investment policy and related guidelines and Investment Restrictions and Guidelines limits, as described below.
It aims to outperform the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various investment limits and restrictions: The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total assets in Standards, the UKLA Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and any one individual stock excluding investment trusts at the time Transparency Rules, Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law and the of acquisition.
Companys own Articles of Association.
The Company is an No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be invested in investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the any one region.
Companies Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys assets and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 30th before deducting borrowings may be invested in: i securities June 2013 and future years.
The Directors have no reason to believe not listed on any recognised investment exchange: and ii that approval will not continue to be obtained.
The Company is not a holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or close company for taxation purposes.
more of the aggregate of the equity capital including any capital having an element of equity of any one listed company other than an investment trust which has been approved by HM Investment Policies and Risk Management Revenue & Customs or which would qualify for such approval but In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to manage for the fact that it is not listed.
risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests primarily in quoted In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, securities in emerging stock markets but, where necessary or the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted securities, it may other UK listed closed-ended investment funds and will not invest invest in unquoted securities.
It may invest in other collective more than 10% of its gross assets in companies that themselves investment schemes, but usually only where legal restrictions may invest more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed prevent direct investment by foreign investors or prudent closed-ended investment funds.
diversification can best be achieved in this way.
The Company The Company does not normally enter into derivative transactions, conducts its affairs so as to achieve and maintain approved other than short term forward currency contracts to manage investment trust status in the UK.
working capital requirements and to do so requires prior Board The Company is managed to produce total return and not to approval.
produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time of dividend will vary.
18 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 19 Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2016 are given is monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the in the Investment Managers Report on page7.
Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to address Performance imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares In the year to 30th June 2016, the Company produced a total return within the market.
This should help to reduce the volatility and to shareholders of 9.3% 2015: 6.6% and a total return on net absolute level of the discount to NAV per share at which the assets of 12.7% 2015: 7.4%.
This compares with the return on the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in the sector.
In Companys benchmark index of 3.5% 2015: 3.2%.
At 30th June the year to 30th June 2016, the Companys shares traded at a 2016, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was discount to the capital only net asset value per share between 901.0 million 2015: 822.5 million.
The Investment Managers 8.5% and 13.2% based on month end data.
Report on pages5to9 includes a review of developments during Discount Performance the year as well as information on investment activity within the 4 Companys portfolio.
6 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 8 Gross total return for the year amounted to 113.1 million 2015: 70.1 million and net total return after deducting 10 management fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and 12 taxation amounted to 102.5 million 2015: 58.8 million.
Distributable income for the year amounted to 12.1 million 2015: 14 8.5 million.
With effect from 1st July 2015, the Company has 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 allocated 70% of the management fee and any finance costs to Source: Datastream month end data.
Previously, 100% of these charges were JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to capital only net asset allocated to revenue.
This change has resulted in an increase in the value per share.
amount of revenue available for distribution to shareholders.
Ongoing charges The Directors recommend a final dividend of 9.0p per share payable The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee on 23rd November 2016 to holders on the register at the close of and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs, business on 21st October 2016.
This distribution will amount to expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during 11.4 million.
The revenue reserve after payment of the final the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 30th June 2016 dividend will amount to 10.0 million.
The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess Share Capital the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority both to Performance against the benchmark index repurchase shares in the market for cancellation, or holding in This is the most important KPI by which performance is judged.
Treasury, and to issue new shares for cash or from Treasury on Information on the Companys performance is given in the behalf of the Company.
Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Also, please refer to the graphs on page 11.
A total of 2,273,673 shares were repurchased into Treasury during the year under review, for a total consideration of 12,812,000.
The Performance against the Companys peers Company did not allot any new shares for cash.
Since the year end The principal objective is to maximise total return relative to the 350,402 shares have been repurchased into Treasury.
However, the Board also monitors the performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to repurchase shares for cancellation and or for holding in Treasury Performance attribution will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess Meeting.
how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting Companys relative performance of the various components on pages 63 and 64. such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the 19 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 20 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Board Diversity Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint finance.
Diversity is important in bringing an appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
At The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA 30th June 2016, there were five male Directors and one female The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human Director on the Board.
trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA Issues requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no JPMorgans statement on Human Rights can be found on the employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The day to day following website: www.
com corporate activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no About-JPMC ab-human-rights.
htm disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes the JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM policy statements in Principal Risks respect of Social, Community and Environmental and Human Rights The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust issues, as highlighted in italics: assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Social, Environmental and Human Rights solvency or liquidity.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
In assessing interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial the risks and how they can be mitigated, the Board has given issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to particular attention to those issues that threaten the viability of the impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
These key risks fall broadly under the following Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance categories: ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment industry.
strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance against JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when manages these risks by diversification of investments and making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our through a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on monitored and reported on by the Manager.
provides the Directors with timely and accurate management The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict information, including performance data and attribution analyses, investments in securities issued by companies that have been revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
identified by an independent third party provider as being involved in The Board monitors the implementation and results of the the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, depleted investment process with the Investment Manager, who attends uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel mines.
all Board meetings, and reviews data which show statistical Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by contacting measures of the Companys risk profile.
Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions These risks are discussed by the Board on a regular basis.
The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of its Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being carried departure of the investment manager or several members of out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made the investment management team could result in a short-term in respect of employees.
The Company has no premises, consumes deterioration in investment performance.
The Manager takes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event by ensuring measurable carbon footprint.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon 20 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 21 appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team Governance Statement on page 30.
The threat of cyber attack, in based approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
all its guises, is regarded as at least as important as more traditional physical threats to business continuity and security.
Share Price Discount: A disproportionate widening of the share The Board has received the cyber security policies for its key third price discount relative to the Companys peers could result in loss party service providers and JPMF has assured Directors that the of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements of policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information Companys broker to follow.
technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board holds data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading regular meetings with senior representatives of JPMF in order to applications are tested by Deloitte and reported every six months obtain assurance that the Manager continues to demonstrate a against the AAF Standard.
high degree of commitment to its investment trusts business Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include through the provision of significant resources.
market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further details Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust, are disclosed in note 20 on pages 55 to 60. the Company must comply with Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given under Structure and Objective of Long Term Viability the Company on page 18.
Should the Company breach Section Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal risks 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, that it faces and their potential impact on its future development gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital and prospects, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually Company, to the extent that they are able to do so, over the next monitored by the Manager and the results reported to the Board five years.
They have made that assessment by considering those each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions principal risks, the Companys investment objective and strategy, of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the the investment capabilities of the Manager and the current outlook London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure for emerging markets economies and equity markets.
Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares maximising total return, shareholders should consider the Company being suspended from listing which in turn would breach Section as a long term investment proposition.
This is consistent with advice 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary provided by investment advisers, that investors should consider and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the investing in equities for a minimum of five years.
Thus the Directors Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon to assess the Companys viability.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, The Directors confirm that, assuming a successful continuation vote including information on relations with shareholders, are set out at the 2017 AGM, they have a reasonable expectation that the in the Corporate Governance report on pages 26 to 31.
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Operational and Cyber Crime: Loss of key staff by the Manager, such as the Investment Manager, could affect the performance of the Company.
Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers For and on behalf of the Board accounting, dealing or payments systems or the Depositary or Alan Saunders, Custodians records may prevent accurate reporting and Chairman monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Under the terms of its agreement, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss or 4th October 2016 misappropriation of assets held in custody.
See note 20 c for further details on the responsibilities of the Depositary.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by JPMF and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective risk management and internal controls are included within the Risk Management and Internal Controls section of the Corporate 21
