JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 19 Strategic Report Performance Business Review In the year to 31st January 2016, the Company produced a total Objective and Strategy of the Company return to shareholders of 18.6% and a total return on net assets The Mercantile Investment Trust plc is an investment trust of 12.9%.
This compares with the return on the Companys company that has a premium listing on the London Stock benchmark of 4.7%.
At 31st January 2016, the value of the Exchange.
Its objective is to achieve long term capital growth Companys investment portfolio was 1,776 million.
The from a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 6 to 10 includes a review Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the of developments during the year as well as information on Manager to actively manage its assets.
The Board has investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
determined an investment policy and related guidelines and Total Return, Revenue and Dividends limits, as described below.
Gross total return for the year amounted to 234.2 million 2015: Structure of the Company 92.0 million and net total return after deducting interest, The Company is an investment company within the meaning of management expenses and taxation amounted to 213.8 million Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved 2015: 72.4 million.
Distributable income for the year amounted by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the to 49.6 million 2015: 41.4 million.
The Directors have declared purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax quarterly interim dividends totalling 43.0p 2015: 41.0p per Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on ordinary share for the year which totalled 41.3 million 2015: capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that 40.2 million.
The year end revenue reserve after allowing for approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not a these dividends will amount to 28.8 million 2015: 20.3 million.
close company for taxation purposes.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5, and in the Investment from a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
In order Managers Report on pages 6 to 10. to monitor performance against this objective, the Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance Investment Policies and Risk Management of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: In order to achieve its objective, the Companys business model is to invest in a diversified portfolio and it employs a Manager with a Performance against the benchmark index strong focus on research that enables it to identify what it believes This is the most important KPI by which performance is to be the most attractive stocks in the market.
Please refer to the graph headed Ten Year The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk by imposing Performance on page 12. various investment limits and restrictions.
These limits and Performance against the Companys peers restrictions may be varied at any time by the Board at its The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to discretion.
The Board also monitors the performance Investment Restrictions and Guidelines relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
Please refer to - The Company invests in medium and smaller companies which the graph headed Ten Year Performance on page 12. are listed mainly on the London Stock Exchange.
Performance attribution - At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess stock is 8% of gross assets.
how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the - Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend Companys relative performance of the various components growth at least in line with inflation.
such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to increase attribution analysis for the year ended 31st January 2016 are potential returns to shareholders.
Such gearing will be given in the Investment Managers Report on page 6. long-term in nature and will operate within a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share The Board operates a share repurchase programme that seeks - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross to enhance value and address imbalances in supply and assets in other UK listed investment companies including demand of the Companys shares within the market and investment trusts.
thereby reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount - The Company will not invest more than 10% of assets in to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
Please refer to companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of the graph headed Discount Performance on page 12. gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 20 Strategic Report continued Ongoing Charges The fair value of the Companys debentures is calculated using a discounted cash flow technique which applies the yield from a The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys management similarly dated gilt to the debentures issued by the Company and fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, adds to that a margin based on the 5 year average for the AA expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
The Ongoing Charges for the year ended 31st January 2016 were 0.48% 2015: 0.49%.
The Board Using this calculation, ie NAV cum income with debt at fair value, reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of the the discount would be shown to have narrowed over the course of Companys Ongoing Charges and its main expenses with those the year from 10.8% to 7.4%.
Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Share Capital Issues During the year the Company repurchased a total of 1,747,595 The Company has no employees.
Since many of its functions ordinary shares for cancellation nominal value 437,000.
This are carried out by employees of the Manager and its affiliate, amount represented 1.79% of the issued share capital at the J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM, it notes the beginning of the year.
As the shares were repurchased at a discount JPMAM policy statements in respect of social and environmental to the underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the NAV of issues.
The Company has repurchased 400,000 further shares since the year end as at 5th April 2016.
Social, Environmental and Human Rights JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares will be responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, The Company did not issue any shares during the year and has not non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors issued any shares since the year end.
have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs Board Diversity environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked At 31st January 2016, there were six male Directors and one with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and female Director on the Board.
The Company has no employees.
environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 27.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Discount Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six The Board monitors the level of the Companys share price principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their discount to net asset value closely.
During the year the discount processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting narrowed from 14.6% to 10.6% on the basis of a cum income ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the calculation with debt at par.
Several different methodologies are principles is available on request.
currently employed by different bodies to assess net asset value Greenhouse Gas Emissions and consequently different conclusions are drawn which can be The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of its difficult to interpret.
Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being carried The Company reports its performance Financial Highlights, out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers report etc.
to in respect of employees.
The Company has no premises, consumes shareholders on a cum income NAV with debt at par value basis.
no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a The same NAV basis is used in the Companys monthly factsheets measurable carbon footprint.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon on its website.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator The AIC, for its industry statistics, stipulates the NAV as Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project Shareholder Funds, both capital and income, expressed as an finance.
Shareholder Funds are the net value of Principal Risks total assets having deducted prior charges at their fair not par With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk value.
The AIC does not however prescribe a methodology for the matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key basis of calculation of fair value.
Income for the current financial risks fall broadly under the following categories: year is included dividends are deducted from the income value on the day that shares go ex-dividend.
This is equivalent to the cum Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment strategy, income NAV with debt at fair value as calculated and published by for example asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to ourselves, via the Regulatory News Service, on a daily basis.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index 20 JPM Mercantile pp19 34 05 04 2016 16:16 Page 21 Strategic Report continued and peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading designed to provide effective risk management and internal on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by control are included within the Risk Management and Internal diversification of investments through its investment restrictions Control section of the Corporate Governance report on and guidelines which are monitored and reported by the pages29 and 30.
JPMF provides the Directors with timely and accurate Going concern: Boards are advised to consider going concern management information, including performance data and as a potential risk, whether or not there is an apparent issue attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and arising in relation thereto.
Going concern is considered shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation rigorously on an ongoing basis and the Boards statement on and results of the investment process with the Investment going concern is detailed on page 24.
Managers, who attend all Board meetings, and reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include The Investment Managers employ the Companys gearing market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
Bank counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and regular consideration at meetings of the Board.
In Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an addition the Board receives regular reports on the Managers investment trust, the Company must comply with Section monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share transactions 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details carried out by the Company.
Further details are disclosed in of the Companys approval are given under Structure of the note 24 on pages 55 to 59.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, Long Term Viability gains within the Companys portfolio could be subject to Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal risks Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are that it faces and their potential impact on its future development and continually monitored by JPMF and the results reported to the prospects, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the Company, to the extent that they are able to do so, over the next five provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed years.
They have made that assessment by considering those on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and principal risks, the Companys investment objective and strategy, the Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the investment capabilities of the Manager and the current outlook Companies Act could result in the Company and or the for the UK economy and equity market.
Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of Companys shares being suspended from listing which in turn achieving long term capital growth, shareholders should consider the would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services Company as a long term investment proposition.
This is consistent of its Company Secretary, JPMF, to ensure compliance with The with advice provided by investment advisers, that investors should Companies Act and The UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
consider investing in equities for a minimum of five years.
Thus the Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of Directors consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon to the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best assess the Companys viability.
practice, including information on relations with shareholders, The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 26 the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its to 30. liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMFs accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians records could By order of the Board prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of financial position.
This includes the risk of cybercrime and the JPMorgan Funds Limited, consequent potential threat to security and business Company Secretary continuity.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by JPMF and its associates and the key elements 6th April 2016 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 21
