Strategic Report Business review and strategy Business Model The Groups hospitality real estate ownership model enables investors to participate in long-term asset value growth as well as hotel earnings.
The model is fide-centralised with relatively low central overheads, the core aim being to ensure that a high proportion of hotel revenues flow directly to the Groups bottom line.
In some markets, where real estate ownership is sub-optimal for fiscal or other reasons, the Group may operate hotels under management contract or enter into franchise agreements.
Strategy The core strategic objective of the Group is to provide long-term, improving returns on shareholders capital, whilst growing the business through asset acquisition and prudent investment in the existing asset portfolio.
The Board and executive management are focused on capital allocation, promoting growth, controlling costs and fostering efficient operating procedures.
The Group is investing in its people, brands and technology with the aim of providing a high quality, costefficient guest experience to its customers.
Strategy in action The Group is taking appropriate steps to maintain or increase market share and preserve profitability across the portfolio.
These include the continuing development of the Groups e-commerce platform and ongoing refurbishment of Group properties.
2016 was the first full year of operation for the Groups newly branded hotel collections Millennium, Copthorne and Lengs under the Millennium Hotels and Resorts umbrella.
These brands, which help to differentiate the customer offering according to our guests type and taste, have been well received by customers although it is too early to detect a material impact on trading results.
Management remains vigilant on cost control.
In many destinations, and in common with other hospitality providers, labour and other costs are increasing, both as a result of inflationary pressure and Government intervention in some labour markets.
6 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Hotel operations Developments about 18 months to complete after Hotel revenue increased by 6.4% to 814m The Group received building permit approval commencement.
2015: 765m mainly because of favourable for the Yangdong development project in Seoul foreign exchange movements.
Management continues to explore options in currency, hotel revenue fell by 19m or 2.3% relation to the freehold site occupied by the due to weaker performance in London, New Additional required certification processes are Millennium Hotel St. Louis, which was closed in York and Singapore.
underway and are expected to complete by the January 2014. middle of this year before construction work Revenue per available room RevPAR starts.
The main contract tender process is Hotel refurbishments increased by 6.6% to 76.71 in 2016, but planned to complete at the same time.
The Group is continuing to review the scope decreased by 2.3% in constant currency.
Both and cost of refurbishment at Millennium Hotel 1 like-for-like RevPAR and hotel revenue for the Having received final planning approval in London Mayfair.
Work on the hotel is now year fell by 1.9%.
December 2016 for a 263-room hotel and a planned to commence later this year.
To 250-unit residential apartment block on the minimise the impact on London occupancy, 2 Hotel gross operating margin was lower at Groups 35,717m mixed use freehold landsite there will be a gap of at least 12 months before 31.6% 2015: 34.1%.
at Sunnyvale, California, the Group is reviewing Millennium Hotel London Knightsbridge the project cost and specification.
The Group undertakes smaller scale refurbishment work.
may modify certain aspects of the development, which is anticipated to take Refurbishment of guest rooms in the east tower of ONE UN New York was completed in early September 2016 and the tower was re-opened in time for the UN General Assembly.
The Group spent US$32m 24m on this project in 2016.
Work on the main lobby and food and beverage outlets at the main entrance level of the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel Singapore was substantially completed in May 2016 with the affected outlets re-opening for business shortly afterwards.
The remaining work on the refurbishment of function rooms at level two started in September 2016 and completed in December 2016.
Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel Singapore Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur ONE UN New York 1 Like-for-like comparisons exclude the impact of acquisitions, closures and refurbishments, and they are stated in constant currency terms.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 7 Strategic Report Business review and strategy continued Soft refurbishment of all guestrooms at M Hotel Disposals The Group is currently considering its options, Singapore, from level 12 to level 28 is The Group has in place a number of such as appealing the decision, whilst complete, with the last phase completed in contractual arrangements with the developer of maintaining a commercial dialogue with December 2016.
Birminghams Paradise Circus redevelopment Network Rail.
Pursuant to this scheme, under an Soft refurbishment of guestrooms at Grand agreed process, the developer has a right to On 31 December 2016, the Group sold its Millennium Kuala Lumpur, from level 9 to level acquire the existing site of the Copthorne Hotel 51% equity interest in Millennium & Copthorne 19, was completed at the beginning of the 4th Birmingham and the Group has both an option Middle East Holdings Limited MCMEHL to quarter of 2016, with the last phase at level 9 to sell the existing site to the developer and an the other existing shareholder.
MCMEHL, and level 10 returned to inventory in midoption to acquire an alternative site in the supported by the Group, will continue to trade October.
The remaining guestrooms to be redevelopment area for the construction of a under the same name with rights to operate refurbished are at level 7 and level 8, work on new hotel.
The Group continues to consider and manage the existing portfolio and to which will take place in the middle of this year these options in discussion with the developer.
develop future business under the Groups during the lower season.
brand names, in the Middle East, Africa and As previously reported, in September 2015 the Indian regions.
Copthorne Hotel Auckland Harbourcity is Group received notice of an application from scheduled to re-open on completion of work in Network Rail Infrastructure Limited Network Other Group operations the second quarter of 2017.
The hotel was Rail for an order to temporarily close and Joint ventures and associates contributed closed in July 2015 for a refurbishment possess the Millennium Hotel Glasgow, and to 26m to profit in 2016 2015: 17m.
The programme estimated to cost NZ$40m 22m permanently take a portion of the hotel, in Group has an effective interest of 36% in and will be rebranded M Social Auckland.
connection with the redevelopment of FSGL, which is listed on the Singapore Glasgows Queen Street Station.
The Group Exchange and reports its results independently.
objected to various components of the Acquisition application and a public inquiry was held in In February 2017 a subsidiary of the Group acquired the tenants interest in the lease on May and June 2016.
This resulted in the the penthouse floor of the Novotel New York removal of the power to temporarily close and Times Square for a gross purchase price of possess the main part of the hotel.
In February 2017, the Scottish Ministers stated their US$6m.
The lease has a term ending in 2080. intention to approve the draft order, including The Group acquired the hotel, subject to the penthouse lease, in June 2014. the power to permanently take a portion of the hotel, subject to some modifications.
Following the taking of the land, the Group will be entitled to compensation, which will either be negotiated or settled at the Lands Tribunal.
M Social Auckland 8 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016
