Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Business review Building sales momentum We have started to see early positive Our priorities Over the last year results emerging from our work on these we have continued to priorities.
Sales were challenging in the first Building a more balanced business half of the year, falling by 1.6% on a like-for-like Our estate comprises more than 1,800 sites, focus on our three basis.
However, in the second half our of which more than 80% are freehold or like-for-like sales grew by 0.2%, improving strategic priorities: long-leasehold.
This provides the opportunity the full year outturn to 0.8% down.
This was for long-term value generation: our priority is in part driven by an increased level of capital therefore to ensure the estate is set up to investment in our estate but also an To build a more extract this value.
improvement in the performance of our sites balanced business that have not seen recent investment.
Over the coming years, we are committed to improving the quality of the estate: by This build in sales momentum has continued exposing it to more premium market spaces from the second half to recent trading after the To instil a more and by improving the overall level of amenity.
year end as we have moved from lagging the The premium market is where we would 1 commercial culture market, to outperforming consistently.
expect to see the strongest growth, and these Our adjusted earnings per share fell by 2.2% to spaces offer a form of long-term mitigation 34.9p, reflecting the lower total sales but also towards cost inflation.
We are therefore To drive an a weaker margin in the second half of the year.
converting several of our businesses towards innovation agenda The National Living Wage was introduced more premium concepts both existing and from April 2016, and saw a 7.5% increase in the new as well as making selective site minimum rate of pay for those aged 25 and acquisitions and disposals where appropriate.
over, in addition to the National Minimum To this end, within the year we have carried Wage which increased by 3.1% in October out a full estate review, which gives us a plan 2015.
The acceleration of investment in our for each of our sites.
We have recently businesses also affected profits, as we incurred identified around 75 sites for sale in order a greater number of closure weeks and to generate greater value for shareholders pre-opening costs.
This is an unavoidable than if retained as managed businesses.
short-term impact of improving amenity levels Going forward, we will continue to look at in our businesses but is the right thing to do to acquisitions and disposals as part of our enhance our long-term prospects.
Coffer Peach Business Tracker 25 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Business review continued It remains our intention to grow Miller & Carter capex per site, and is delivering a return of resolve a guest complaint.
We quickly reduced to 100 sites by 2018 and we are well on track to around 25% in the 32 sites in which it has so this to our target of just over two days, and achieve this.
This is a proven and successful far been implemented.
We have a pipeline successfully maintained this level.
This will steakhouse format that generates strong of Harvester sites to continue the rollout of continue to be an important area for our teams.
like-for-like sales, and also delivers good this format.
Much of our work in this area has been around returns when we open in new locations.
In total, we completed 252 remodels and creating a more sales-focused culture, and we We have grown the brand in the last year from conversions in FY 2016 FY 2015 167, moving will continue to have an ongoing number of 36 to 52 sites.
A small number of these have us towards a six-year investment cycle for all initiatives to achieve this.
Examples from the been acquisitions, with the majority being our sites.
We will continue to increase this to last year include dedicated sales training existing site conversions delivering EBITDA around 300 remodels and conversions in provided to all the operational teams, an returns of more than 40%.
Our portfolio gives FY 2017, which we expect to be broadly the incentive scheme in the second half of the year us a strong pipeline of future conversion rate in future years.
which awarded cash bonuses for improving opportunities to continue successfully sales trends, and the establishment of a growing the brand.
Instilling a more commercial culture London-based sales team to fill secondary We have also evolved our Pizza & Carvery space and increase levels of corporate Across our retail teams and our support centre businesses and established the new bookings.
we employ more than 44,000 people.
This is Engagement of this team is critical to achieving a reinvention of our Crown Carveries brand, Driving an innovation agenda growth in profitable sales.
Given the challenges involving modernisation of the amenity whilst we face as a business and an industry, it is Innovation and technology are critical areas enhancing the menu to broaden its appeal.
critical we execute well and at pace.
for us as a business, in terms of efficiency, At the end of FY 2016 we had 36 sites under attracting and interacting with guests and the new brand.
This remains a strong value To facilitate this, we underwent an remaining competitive in our markets.
format, but with a more premium offer than organisational restructure this year, creating prior to conversion.
As with Miller & Carter, four operating divisions, each containing A key area of focus is to build on our existing these are largely existing site conversions, similar brands and customer types.
The four technology, given the systems investment and are generating returns of around 25%.
Divisional Directors leading these each now sit we have made in recent years.
We have We will aim to grow Stonehouse to around on the Executive Committee.
Organisationally, developed our online bookings system to 80 sites by 2018. we have also identified a number of clear increase the availability of short-term bookings workstreams aligned to our three priorities.
and to integrate with third-party booking Our estates amenity level has improved These changes enable us to make much providers to extend our reach.
Our bookings through our remodel programme, which quicker decisions, with our workstream teams have grown, such that more than half our encompasses all our brands and allows us empowered to be decisive, work their way restaurant bookings are now made online.
We to develop the guest proposition whilst through barriers, and deliver effectively.
are looking at various other ways to improve maintaining and enhancing the estate through efficiency and the guest experience, including capital investment.
An example of this is We have focused our work in this area across enhanced wifi provision in our sites and the Harvester, which has faced increased a wide range of activities.
There has been a trialling of alternative payment technology.
We have evolved significant drive towards resolving our guests our Feel Good Dining remodel solution, complaints more quickly.
A year ago it was which sees us spend around 400,000 of taking an unacceptable average of 11 days to 26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 We have also developed our digital strategy across key guest interaction areas: acquisition, experience, customer relationship management, loyalty, and social media.
The relentless nature of digital development is such that we must continually enhance our skills in this area.
In the last year we developed five new brand apps, which have collectively had more than 400,000 downloads, and achieve a significantly higher booking conversion rate than through traditional email communication.
We are looking to build on this through the addition of loyalty incentives into forthcoming apps for Browns and Miller & Carter.
We have increased our social media presence, consolidated 10m guests details on our central database, our gift card sales have increased by more than 40% and we have carried out several successful campaigns with affiliates.
Food delivery is becoming increasingly important to the industry, and we have carried out an initial successful trial with Deliveroo across 25 All Bar One and Browns sites.
Given the early success, we are working to roll this Current trading and outlook out further across our brands, in different locations and with different third-party In the first eight weeks of the current year providers.
We believe that this model can like-for-like sales have increased by 0.5%, apply to around a quarter of the estate, and continuing the momentum that we started that it provides a good opportunity to to build in the second half of last year.
Although we are working hard to take We have increased our use of TripAdvisor mitigating action where possible, we expect as a guest interaction tool by providing all to see downward pressure on margins in our house managers with accounts and this financial year, as our sector incurs the encouraging its usage.
We will look to develop additional cost headwinds including the first this further in the year ahead, but have already full year of the National Living Wage, seen the number of reviews significantly indications of two potential increases in the increase, as well as our average rating rise by National Minimum Wage, the impact of more than 8%.
Early results from our increased exchange rate movements on foreign currency usage of TripAdvisor suggest that better denominated purchases, and the recent scores correlate with higher like-for-like sales, business rates review.
increased bookings and a reduction in the Despite these challenges, we remain average number of complaints.
encouraged by the progress we have seen Finally, we have stated that we will look to carry so far, in particular the strengthening of our out new concept and product development, to performance against the market.
We will maintain the appeal of our existing brands and continue focusing on our three priorities, and innovate in new markets.
As noted previously, believe that by doing so we can continue to we have launched the new Stonehouse brand, generate long-term shareholder value.
a successful innovation to evolve and transform the Crown Carveries brand.
We are also on the point of launching a casual dining rotisseriePhil Urban style concept aimed at the millennials market Chief Executive under the brand of Chicken Society.
This provides us with an opportunity to test a new concept which may be later rolled out to further sites.
We expect to take the learnings from this and to develop a pipeline of further new concepts this financial year.
27 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
