52 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Packaging Paper Our Packaging Paper business manufactures and sells a wide range of virgin and recycled containerboard, and sack and speciality kraft paper.
These products are converted by our Fibre and Consumer Packaging businesses, and are also usedby external customers.
To customers Wood bre Pulp mill To customers To Fibre Packaging Virgin and recycled containerboard Paper for To customers recycling Paper mill To Fibre Packaging Sack kraft and To Consumer Packaging speciality kraft paper Operating sites Revenue Underlying operating profit million million 9 in 9 countries 2,056m 361m Employees ROCE 391 2,156 2,073 2,056 2,043 361 1,896 342 5,000 308 236 Production capacity 1 Pulp: 2,435 ktpa 1 Virgin and recycled containerboard: 2,155 ktpa Sack and speciality kraft paper: 1,291 ktpa 1 Including wiecie Green II start up in 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Key industries served Automotive Building and construction Food and beverages Paper and packaging converting Shipping and transport 17.8% 21.7% 23.7% 25.5% 22.4% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 53 Packaging Paper We are a leading packaging paper Sack kraft paper, which we offer in brown, Our broad product range is designed to producer in Europe with a well-invested, white and polyethylene-coated grades, is meet specific customer needs including low-cost asset base.
the main component of valve and open printability, strength and moisture mouth industrial bags.
Our speciality kraft resistance: the use of raw materials Our virgin and recycled containerboard paper is used to make everything from from sustainable sources: and products is used to make corrugated packaging, industrial packaging, to retail shopping that are biodegradable and contain primarily designed to protect our bags, and attractive food packaging for recycled content.
customers products along the value chain supermarket shelves.
It is also used by and display them in-store.
our Consumer Packaging business for release liner.
Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers 2016 highlights 2017 objectives Driving performance to optimise quality, e Good progress in optimising recently e Increase productivity and reliability of mills productivity and efficiency completedinvestments through focus on maintenance and asset management processes Investing in our high-quality, low-cost e wiecie mill Poland expansion to provide additional e Ramp-up of new wiecie capacity assets to keep us competitive 100,000 tonnes of softwood pulp and 80,000 tonnes e Progress major capital investment projects oflightweight kraftliner nearing completion at tt Czech Republic and Ruomberok start-upQ1 2017 Slovakia mills Partnering with our customers to e High level of flexibility and stable service with e Focus on enhancing product quality and supply develop innovative solutions Make2Stock approach chain improvements to ensure reliable service for our customers Growing responsibly and inspiring our e Successfully completed all shuts with no recordable e Continue to focus on eliminating top risks, people for long-term success safety incidents energyefficiency and waste reduction e Positive progress at wiecie mill in waste water e Enhance employee relationships through stronger treatment and reduction in waste to landfill two-way communication and effective leadership Advantage Kraft White Print Advantage MF SpringPack Plus This premium sack kraft paper is produced on our This extremely strong, natural brown premium cutting-edge paper machine at tt.
The unique paper is designed for roll-packing and compressing combination of the outstanding printability and goods.
It can withstand the force exerted by 10 to 15 branding potential of calandered machine finished compressed spring mattress units and is recognised 1 grades along with the strength properties of standard as the strongest paper in the world.
Advantage MF sack kraft paper make it perfect for the outer ply of SpringPack Plus provides an efficient, cost-effective high-end bags for food, animal feed and chemicals.
1 Swedish edition of the Guinness World Records Book 2001: 13th edition, page 256 ProVantage Komiwhite Thanks to the recent modernisation of our paper machine in Syktyvkar Russia, this exclusive whitetop kraftliner is able to offer unprecedented quality in terms of printability, runnability, and whiteness.
It also benefits from the strength of Nordic fibres.
Produced from 100% FSC-certified virgin fibre, it is perfect for shelf-ready packaging solutions that seek to catch the eye with a bright appearance and enhanced branding.
54 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Production information In response to strong demand, price increases of 50 per tonne were recently 2016 2015 implemented on all unbleached kraftliner Containerboard 000 tonnes 2,000 2,138 grades in Europe, effective from March Kraft paper 000 tonnes 1,204 1,162 2017.
A price increase of 50 per tonne has also been announced for white-top Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 1,870 1,759 kraftliner to take effect from the beginning Hardwood pulp 000 tonnes 364 322 of Q2 2017.
In Russia, prices for white-top kraftliner were increased from the beginning Financial performance of 2017. million % change 2016 2015 Average European benchmark selling Segment revenue 5% 2,056 2,156 prices for recycled containerboard Underlying EBITDA 4% 483 505 were down 3% on the prior year period.
Price increases of 40 per tonne were Underlying operating profit 8% 361 391 achieved from February 2017, and a further Underlying operating profit margin 17.6% 18.1% increase of 40 per tonne was announced Special items 14 to take effect from the beginning of Capital expenditure 156 259 Q2 2017.
Net segment assets 1,760 1,753 Sales volumes for sack kraft paper ROCE 22.4% 25.5% increased compared to the prior year, benefiting from good demand, fewer Sustainable development planned maintenance shuts and productivity improvements.
Average selling 2016 2015 prices for sack kraft paper produced in 1 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.72 0.72 Europe declined by 5-6% in the early Energy consumption million GJ 59.26 58.37 part of 2016 and remained at those levels through the balance of the year.
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Given strong demand, selling prices were emissions million tonnes CO e 1.25 1.58 2 increased by 3-4% from the beginning of FSC or PEFC certified wood % 53 50 2017 in all markets.
Environmental management % operations certified to We saw good demand across our range certification ISO 14001 standards 86 86 of speciality kraft papers, although sales 1 2015 figures now include Pine Bluff US volumes of certain grades were impacted by the closure of high cost production capacity in 2015.
Selling prices were, Financial performance While demand growth remains solid, the on average, marginally lower than in the market came under some pressure from Profitability in Packaging Paper, down 8% prior year.
increased supply from new capacity in on the prior year, was impacted by lower Europe and competition from importers average selling prices across most key Input costs were at a similar level to the benefiting from weak emerging market grades, lower green energy prices, and the prior year with the business benefiting from currencies.
Average European benchmark loss of contribution from the Raubling mill cost savings initiatives and generally lower selling prices for unbleached kraftliner were sold during 2015, partially offset by the raw material and energy costs which offset down 5% on the prior year and white-top benefits of completed capital investment higher paper for recycling costs and other kraftliner prices were down around 2%.
However, the business unit inflationary increases.
Green energy prices delivered a strong ROCE performance of were significantly lower in Poland due to Supported by sustained good demand and 22.4%.
legislative changes, resulting in a 20 million a strong order position, a price increase reduction in income from green energy of 20 per tonne was implemented for On a like-for-like basis, excluding the credits compared to the prior year, including unbleached kraftliner in August across all impact of the sale of the Raubling mill, sales the impact of a write-down of 6 million in European markets, excluding southern volumes were marginally up across all the carrying value of the inventory of green Europe, partly offsetting the price erosion containerboard grades.
energy credits held at year end.
seen over the course of the first half of the As anticipated, we saw some price erosion year.
In Russia, price increases for whitein the kraftliner grades in the first half of top kraftliner were implemented at the the year.
beginning of 2016 and remained stable throughout the year.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 55 Planned maintenance shuts at our We are implementing software to The 94 million second phase will provide Syktyvkar and wiecie mills were significantly improve our data analytics an additional 100,000 tonnes per annum completed during the first half of the year, capabilities and provide standardised data of softwood pulp and 80,000 tonnes per and a further planned maintenance shut to benchmark performance across all our annum of lightweight kraftliner.
We are well at wiecie and the majority of our kraft mills.
This has enabled us to improve the on track to start up this project in the first paper mill shuts were completed in the consistency of our maintenance activities quarter of 2017. second half of the year.
A similar planned and encourage a more proactive approach We also finalised a number of smaller maintenance schedule is anticipated in to asset management.
investments at our other mills, focused on 2017 although the shuts at our wiecie Building on the success of our programme improving asset reliability, safety standards, and tt mills will be extended as we to engineer out our top safety risks at all product quality and process stability, and progress our major capital investments our operations, we have defined our top generating opportunities for future growth at those operations.
five maintenance activities on a mill-byat some sites.
mill basis and prioritised these in our Driving performance to optimise At our tt mill, the ramp-up of our rebuilt maintenance programme.
quality, productivity and efficiency paper and inline coating machine has Packaging Paper operates large and been slower than anticipated.
We have Investing in our high-quality, low-cost generally integrated production facilities.
allocated additional capital to meet quality assets to keep us competitive Our passion for performance drives us requirements that are higher than the In 2015, we completed the construction to continually improve the yields and original project specifications, and expect of a new recovery boiler at our wiecie efficiencies in our mills.
to ramp up production over the course of mill and converted the existing recovery 2017.
We continue to improve our quality We have completed a number of boiler to a biofuel boiler to replace the coal systems to ensure that we meet our investments across our mills in recent years fired boilers.
In addition to the significant customers expectations.
and our focus in 2016 was on fully realising environmental benefits and operating the benefits of these investments.
efficiencies from this project, the new recovery boiler gave the opportunity to In our drive to increase the productivity expand production at the mill.
and reliability of our mills we have invested in our asset management and maintenance processes.
56 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Our 310 million project at our Ruomberok Key benefits of the project are: mill will be able to produce 300,000 e increased electricity self-sufficiency, lower tonnes of kraft top white per annum when energy costs and reduced environmental completed in 2020.
The new paper grade footprint of the mill: will consist of a white top layer which e increased pulp production of contains virgin pulp, and a bottom layer 130,000 tonnes per annum and lower containing recycled fibre, thus retaining the pulp production costs per tonne: functionality and printability of white virgin grades, and maintaining a competitive cost e debottlenecking of existing packaging structure.
The new kraft top white grade paper machines providing total is targeted at the growing white topliner incremental production of 55,000 tonnes market.
We expect growth to continue per annum: driven by the trend towards high-quality e additional capacity to produce shelf-ready packaging solutions, and kraft 90,000 tonnes per annum of machine top white allows for enhanced printability glazed speciality kraft paper to supply and better branding at point-of-sale.
fast growing end-uses in flexible packaging and food service applications: The 470 million modernisation and and expansion of our tt mill consists of the installation of a new recovery e avoidance of maintenance capital boiler, the rebuild of the fibre lines, the expenditure over the next five years of debottlenecking of the paper machines around 105 million.
and an investment in a new 90,000 tonnes The new recovery boiler and rebuilt fibre per annum machine glazed speciality kraft lines are expected to start up in late 2018, paper machine.
while the new paper machine is expected to start up in the first half of 2019.
Advantage MF EcoComp: Fuelling the journey from organic waste to biogas Produced at: Mondi Dyns Sweden More sustainable than you expect.
Composting organic kitchen waste is good for the environment, but it can be a messy chore.
With Advantage MF EcoComp, Mondi has developed a speciality kraft paper just for this purpose.
Because the paper itself is certified as fully biodegradable and compostable, the whole waste bag can be thrown in the composting bin.
Two of the many reasons why Svenco, one of Europes major manufacturers of paper bags, chose to develop a waste paper bag that makes a difference with Mondi.
This waste paper bag, called Matavfallspse, is completely biodegradable, compostable and water-repellent, with the open-mouth ventilation system facilitating the aerobic digestion of food waste while allowing water to evaporate.
Benefits include minimised odours, lighter weight for transportation and decreased risk of dry waste freezing in cold temperatures.
The bags journey is not over once it is filled with organic kitchen waste.
Advantage MF EcoComp is still picking up speed when it gets to the recycling plant.
The bag including contents goes straight to the biogas facility where it is converted into a fuel available at Swedish petrol stations.
One full waste bag made from Advantage MF EcoComp can power a car for 1 up to 4 km.
1 Biogas Syd 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 57 Partnering with our customers to Growing responsibly and inspiring our Our community involvement is localised to develop innovative solutions people for long-term success each mill and focuses on where we can add value.
All our mills are involved in formal and Our ongoing innovation activities are The 2015 employee survey showed a clear informal initiatives to identify and address focused on reducing the weight of our improvement in sentiment across all our community needs and concerns where paper grades while still retaining the mills.
We take this feedback seriously and, appropriate.
We work together with local necessary strength and printability while it is pleasing to see our initiatives authorities in identifying and assisting with requirements.
In sack kraft and speciality delivering results, we have identified a specific needs, and work with local schools kraft paper, our product development is number of themes across our mills for and universities in supporting education.
centred on meeting customers needs for further improvement.
Our employees want In 2016, our tt mill received the Social runnability and filling speed.
to see stronger two-way communication, responsibility for the st region award for effective leadership, and to have an Service delivery is a differentiator for us and their employee engagement, the Mondi increased sense of pride in working we continue to improve our supply chain for Life programme and their community for Mondi.
activities from planning and production to support.
We conducted one of our social final delivery of our products to customers.
We are delighted to report that we had no impact assessment pilots at our wiecie Increasing flexibility, combined with stable fatalities or life-altering injuries in 2016, and mill, in partnership with Business in the services for our customers, was the key completed all our major shuts without any Community, a UK-based, business led driver for our Make2Stock initiatives in recordable injuries.
Our proactive approach charity organisation.
The pilot study resulted recent years.
For defined specifications of involving our contractors early in the shut in a better understanding of the local value white and brown containerboard grades, planning process, extensive training of all we have created, and provided us with we offer our customers in European our people, our strong management focus, insight into how we can improve the way we markets quick call off services up to 24 and our caring culture has contributed to measure our social impact and community hours providing a high level of delivery our safety achievements.
The success of value across the Group.
capability, ensuring quality customer our project to engineer out the top risks at service at the right time.
all operations has encouraged us to make this an annual initiative.
In 2017, we will again host the seminar From Fibre to Corrugated Board at At our wiecie mill, progress includes the our wiecie mill addressing around 300 modernisation of the waste water treatment customers.
The seminar is intended to plant.
The project was completed in May close the gap between paper makers and 2015 and is already delivering a 50% corrugated board makers understanding reduction in chemical oxygen demand load of the challenges they face and to share compared to 2015.
In addition wiecie knowledge and best practices.
mill has further reduced its waste to landfill, down by almost 60% compared to In 2016, we celebrated the milestone of 2015 levels.
200,000 tonnes of unbleached long-fibre kraft pulp delivered to Melitta, one of our customers at Frantschach Austria.
58 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Fibre Packaging Our Fibre Packaging business manufactures and sells corrugated packaging products, industrial bags and extrusion coatings for a variety of consumer and industrial applications.
To customers Corrugated packaging Recycled and virgin containerboard To customers Industrial bags Converting operations Sack kraft and speciality kraft paper To customers Extrusion coatings Operating sites Revenue Underlying operating profit million million 64 in 25 countries 1,929m 123m 16 43 5 ROCE Corrugated Industrial Extrusion 2,031 123 120 1,929 packaging bags coatings 1,860 1,852 102 1,690 93 86 Employees 7,700 Key industries served Agriculture 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Automotive and other manufacturing Building and construction Food and beverage Retail and e-commerce Shipping and transport 13.9% 11.8% 13.4% 13.9% 13.5% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 59 Fibre Packaging Our comprehensive product portfolio, Industrial bags are a strong, lightweight Our extrusion coatings portfolio comprises integration into paper and strong innovation and sustainable paper-based choice for high-quality barrier solutions used in a wide capabilities help us meet our customers cement and building materials, agricultural, range of industries for applications such as needs.
We boast food packaging, building insulation, foam the broadest range of industrial bags papers, wrappers, case linings as well as Innovation and design improvements in the industry, available globally, and automotive and protective clothing.
extend the benefits of our corrugated optimised for high-speed filling and easy packaging well beyond traditional boxes to handling, including open-mouth bags, fully customised trays and wraps, multipasted valve bags, water-repellent bags, piece solutions, appealing point-of-sale bags suitable for food contact and heavy corrugated solutions and heavy-duty duty packaging.
Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers 2016 highlights 2017 objectives Driving performance to optimise quality, e Further optimised our production network, including e Focus on product quality, while reducing waste productivity and efficiency the start-up of our new Industrial Bags facility in and optimising production costs CtedIvoire e Zero defect project rolled out across our corrugated packaging network Investing in our high-quality, low-cost e Acquisitions of SIMET S. A. Poland and Lebedyan e Successfully integrate new acquisitions and assets to keep us competitive Russia increase our production network and fully realise benefits of recent investments in geographic reach production capacity e Complete conversion of SIMET to high-efficiency, heavy-duty box plant Partnering with our customers to e Successfully launched new products and expanded e Enhance service delivery through investment in IT develop innovative solutions marketing of new products into US markets systems and digitalisation of customer interfaces Growing responsibly and inspiring our e Investment in training first-time leaders provides e Emphasise the safety of our people in people for long-term success significant productivity, service and safety benefits everything we do e Further train and upskill our people Watermelons Dream Antalya Tarim, one of our customers in Turkey, was eager to differentiate itself from competitors by finding a way of packaging watermelons as a premium product.
Our innovative team developed Watermelons Dream offering excellent product display and branding opportunities: saving transport costs by allowing 50% more watermelons to be shipped in one truck: and making it convenient for consumers to carry their heavy watermelon home on a hot summer day.
SplashBag This innovative rain-resistant bag, developed in Paper-based food packaging cooperation with LafargeHolcim, is made withan This brand new, cutting-edge product is the result of outer ply of Mondi AdvantageProtect sack kraft working together with Silbo, a customer who shared paper, has a  and is designed our vision of developing a packaging solution that to absorb less moisture thanconventional bags, combines the advantages of kraft paper and the whilekeepinghigh tensile strength even in wet or barrier functions of polymers.
Mondi provides the humid conditions.
SplashBag is particularly suitable barrier coated paper and our customer converts it for packaging cement and our customers are into an FSC-certified paper bag with a window so the launching it all over the world.
end-user can see the contents.
60 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Production information In Industrial Bags, while European markets remained robust, the business 2016 2015 was negatively impacted by challenging Corrugated board and boxes million m 1,448 1,350 market conditions in the US and CIS.
Industrial bags million units 4,881 4,925 Overall, sales volumes declined by 1%, with good growth in Europe and the Extrusion coatings million m 1,249 1,389 Middle East, offset by declines in the US and CIS.
Lower sales volumes were Financial performance partly compensated by significant cost million % change 2016 2015 savings resulting from a strong focus on Segment revenue 5% 1,929 2,031 cost management and the benefits of the restructuring and rationalisation activities.
Underlying EBITDA 4% 194 187 The weaker Mexican peso had a negative Underlying operating profit 3% 123 120 impact on the translation of profits from our Underlying operating profit margin 6.4% 5.9% Mexican operations.
Special items 13 21 Driving performance to optimise Capital expenditure 107 118 quality, productivity and efficiency Net segment assets 1,006 935 The breadth and geographic reach of ROCE 13.5% 13.9% our Fibre Packaging operations gives us the unique ability to fully optimise Sustainable development our production network to better serve 2016 2015 our customers.
In 2016, we closed our facility at Sendenhorst Germany, while TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.97 1.13 continuing to serve our customers from CoC certification % operations certified to other sites.
We completed the closure of FSC or PEFC our Kansas City operation US and, in CoC standards 72 67 December 2016, announced the closure of our facility in southern Belgium.
We have also significantly increased the level of Financial review Sales volumes were negatively impacted in exports from our Mexican operations into Turkey, due to ongoing political turbulence In Fibre Packaging our underlying operating the US, and started production at our new in the region, and Poland, where sales profit increased 3% to 123 million and operation in Cte dIvoire.
growth was tempered by the Russian ROCE was 13.5%, with volume growth Quality is a top priority across our embargo preventing the export of fresh in Corrugated Packaging, and a good businesses.
Our zero defect project, fruit and vegetables to that market.
performance from the core European which has been implemented across Profitability was also negatively affected by industrial bags business partly offset by our corrugated operations, has resulted the weaker Turkish lira and Polish zloty.
negative currency translation effects and in increased efficiencies and a reduction ongoing challenges in the US and CIS Over the last two years, we have invested in overall solid waste, including waste industrial bags businesses.
significantly in all our corrugated operations, to landfill.
In our bags operations in the helping us to better serve our customers Corrugated Packaging achieved good US, we have made quality the key focus and meet their more sophisticated product organic volume growth, particularly and responsibility of local teams in order needs.
The business benefited from lower in the Czech Republic and Germany, to improve performance to a level not paper input costs and productivity gains.
supplemented by two acquisitions to previously seen in the industry.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 61 Investing in our high-quality, low-cost Partnering with our customers to Growing responsibly and inspiring our assets to keep us competitive develop innovative solutions people for long-term success In 2016, we completed two acquisitions to We have a strong culture of innovation Fibre Packaging is Mondis most labour expand our corrugated packaging network.
which is supported by our long-term intensive business and we invest Mondi SIMET S. A. complements our customer relationships and backward significantly in the training and development existing geographic footprint, allows integration into paper production.
Our investment in the training for logistics optimisation, and provides We continue to promote the benefits of first time leaders provides improved increased production capacity in the of fibre-based solutions and, where productivity, customer service, and safety growing Polish market.
We started building appropriate, we have introduced syntheticperformance.
In our US operations, PRO work for the conversion of this plant to based features, such as in our HYBRID we have implemented a systematic a high-efficiency, heavy-duty box plant and SplashBag, with their strong barrier training initiative to upskill our people with early in 2017.
This year we expanded the individualised plans per person and on us with excellent opportunities in the marketing of these products, launched in the job training.
Our procurement team local agricultural market and increases Europe in 2015, to our US customers.
received due diligence training on the our ability to serve our multinational EU Timber Regulations.
We also provide Product quality and service delivery are customers.
Building on the existing local training on the optimal use of any new important to our customers.
We have knowledge and experience, we are sharing equipment we invest in, and encourage invested in our IT systems to enhance resources and best practice from our our operators to visit customers premises our ability to serve our customers and we existing Turkish and Polish operations to to see how our products work in their will continue to focus on increasing the ensure that we bring the Mondi Way to our operations.
digitalisation of our customer interfaces new acquisitions.
and providing automated information Our safety records continue to show Over the last two years, we have invested flow.
We are targeting initiatives to reduce improvement through our training significantly in our corrugated operations the time between customer order and initiatives and focus on the top risks.
We are also involved in a number We are particularly pleased with the delivered a significant improvement in, of projects, together with our customers, positive development in our US operations for example, our printing capabilities, and to improve their supply chain processes, during the year.
There are nevertheless helped us to better serve our customers reduce transportation costs, and always opportunities to improve our and meet their more sophisticated deliver savings.
safety performance and we continue to product needs.
We also completed an emphasise this in everything we do.
investment in our US bags operation to modernise production.
Country Burger: Creating a unique fully customisable fast-food packaging solution Produced at: Mondi Bupak Czech Republic More innovative than you expect.
Our customer, Country Burger Services s. r. o. set us the challenge of designing a bespoke, functional, safe and 100% recyclable corrugated carry solution for a new fast-food chain called Country Burger.
Together we defined what success would look like, which included the solution being highly innovative and eye-catching to set it apart from competitors: multipurpose so that it can be set up differently depending on the order hamburger, tortilla, chips etc.
: easy for the server to construct: user-friendly for the end-user to carry multiple items including liquids: and made from recyclable corrugated board.
A brand new packaging concept was launched in October 2016.
Our customer is delighted with the flexibility and branding potential of the menu-box solution which includes a tray, handle, and place to secure a cup and straw.
The menu-box can easily be folded into different sections to match the order and the design includes striking original artwork.
It is of course also very comfortable to carry and fully recyclable!
62 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Consumer Packaging Our Consumer Packaging business develops, manufactures and sells innovative consumer goods packaging solutions, technical films, components forpersonal care products and release liners.
To customers Resins Technical lms Film extrusion and nonwoven production Films & other raw materials To customers Consumer goods packaging Personal care components Converting Release liner operations Sack kraft and speciality kraft paper Operating sites Revenue Underlying operating profit million million 32 in 12 countries 1,562m 121m Employees ROCE 1,562 121 1,469 1,414 1,379 108 5,300 96 79 Key industries served Agriculture 502 37 Food and beverage Home and personal care Medical and pharmaceutical Pet care 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 9.0% 8.7% 10.4% 10.7% 10.5% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 63 Consumer Packaging We operate a high-quality asset base, using We also offer a wide variety oftailor-made Our personal care components include proprietary processing technology with converted flexible packaging solutions soft nonwovens and technically demanding vertical integration along the value chain, such as stand-up pouches, re-closable stretchy elastic films and laminates, producing products for some of the worlds plastic bags, paper-based bags, and ice mechanical fastening components, and biggest brands.
Our leading market positions, cream packaging.
wrapping films developed for diapers, adult combined with our product innovation incontinence and femcare products.
We produce highly developed technical culture provide a strong platform for growth.
films and film-based solutions for a variety In addition, consumer packaging also Our consumer goods packaging of uses and industries.
Products include offers a wide range of high-quality productshelp brands communicate with high-quality label films: laminating and highpaper and film-based release liners and customers, extend shelf life and improve barrier films for sophisticated packaging advanced functional coatings for various end-user convenience.
We produce solutions: as well as films for demanding applications including labels, tapes, high-quality laminates and barrier materials surfaces or technical components in graphic arts, medical, fibre composites, on reels, capable of handling a variety of automotive and lightweight design.
Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers 2016 highlights 2017 objectives Driving performance to optimise quality, e Good progress in optimising operations through e Focus on improving machine running time productivity and efficiency debottlenecking and site specialisation andlowering maintenance costs, using dedicatedspecialists Investing in our high-quality, low-cost e Acquisitions of Kalenobel Turkey and Uralplastic e Optimise our recent investments and fully assets to keep us competitive Russia in 2016: and Excelsior Technologies UK integrate our recent acquisitions in2017 enhance our product portfolio and geographicreach Partnering with our customers to e Chief innovation officer appointed and e Further expand our product range, working with develop innovative solutions reorganised R&D our customers to deliver cost savings, technical improvements and develop new solutions e New products launched include roomskin andGlassliner e Expanded range of spouted pouches Growing responsibly and inspiring our e New management structure establishes clear lines e Improve and streamline decision-making people for long-term success ofauthority and positions us for further growth processes and procedures and enhance  e Safety record continues to improve as we entrench oursafety culture e Strong focus on safety, with particular attention torecent acquisitions roomskin Consumer Barrier Films roomskin, developed in cooperation with Egger Barrier films ensure outstanding aroma protection headquarters in Austria, is an innovative elastic, and longer shelf life.
We produce high-barrier high-transparency and extremely robust overlay films with up to 14 layers, depending on use and which can be combined with a wide variety of flooring specifications.
Our thermoforming films fit the and decorative elements.
As it is free from PVC shape of the product perfectly, and their gloss and and plasticiser it offers a more sustainable solution.
transparency also make the packaging visually Its reduced thickness in comparison to standard appealing.
Our films are suitable for pasteurisation, flooring overlay means less resources and waste.
It is also self-healing, providing a unique surface layer that provides high scratch and abrasion resistance, potentially increasing the final products total lifespan.
SquareBag Weve developed a flexible yet durable box-shaped solution that is light-weight and cost-effective.
All six panels are available for graphics making this bag ideal for individual branding.
The square design enables the packaging to stand upright at the point-of-sale, ensuring it is even more eye-catching.
SquareBags also offer convenient features like reclosable zippers, spouts and handles.
64 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Production information Investing in our high-quality, low-cost assets to keep us competitive 2016 2015 In recent years, we have invested Consumer packaging million m 7,156 6,594 significantly in the modernisation and growth of our Consumer Packaging Financial performance business.
Looking forward, while million % change 2016 2015 still considering capital investment Segment revenue 6% 1,562 1,469 opportunities, we are focused on the optimisation of our existing operations and Underlying EBITDA 12% 198 177 recent investments.
Underlying operating profit 12% 121 108 Over time, we aim to increase the level Underlying operating profit margin 7.7% 7.4% of standardisation and harmonise our Special items 19 22 portfolio of assets across our production Capital expenditure 91 92 sites in order to realise production and maintenance cost efficiencies and further Net segment assets 1,270 1,146 economies of scale.
Our approach is to ROCE 10.5% 10.7% systematically replace older equipment: bringing in equipment, processes Sustainable development and procedures that result in higher 2016 2015 productivity and quality, and offer greater energy efficiency and waste TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 1.19 1.14 reduction opportunities.
Hygiene certification % food contact operations certified to recognised The acquisitions completed in 2016 grow food hygiene standards 100 100 our product offering and geographic reach.
Mondi Kalenobel produces flexible consumer packaging for ice cream and Financial review Driving performance to optimise other applications, as well as aseptic quality, productivity and efficiency cartons, and serves both international Consumer Packaging made good progress FMCG companies and regional food We are making good progress in our drive with strong volume growth and improving and beverage producers.
The company to optimise our operations.
Underlying operating profit exports approximately half of its production we further debottlenecked some of our increased 12% to 121 million with a ROCE mainly to western Europe, the Middle plants and reallocated production between of 10.5%.
Mondi Uralplastic our sites to allow for site specialisation, Good progress was made in our ongoing manufactures a range of consumer flexible optimised production activities, cost initiatives to improve the product mix.
packaging products for food, personal savings, productivity improvements, and Strong volume growth was achieved care, homecare, and other applications for reduced waste.
We completed the closure in our higher value-added segments of both local and international customers.
of operations in Italy and Spain, announced personal care components, consumer in 2015, while retaining the ability to In February 2017, we announced the laminates, technical films, and release continue to serve customers from our sites acquisition of Excelsior Technologies liners.
The favourable product mix and in central and eastern Europe.
Limited, further supporting the focus on value-added segments resulted development of consumer packaging In the US, we announced the restructuring in an improvement in our gross margin.
of our release liner operations, including the On a like-for-like basis, excluding the Excelsior is a  producer planned closure of one site.
impact of acquisitions and disposals, sales of innovative, flexible packaging solutions, volumes grew around 4%.
We remain well We employed machine specialists to work mainly for food applications, with a unique positioned for further growth.
across our operations leading to significant packaging technology for microwave steam improvements in machine running times, The integration of the businesses acquired cooking, complementing and enhancing while lowering maintenance costs.
during 2015 is progressing well and we our global food packaging offering.
are realising the synergies from these Good progress is being made in integrating acquisitions.
Two further acquisitions were the businesses acquired during 2015 completed in 2016.
A small net charge to and realising the synergies from these underlying operating profit was incurred acquisitions, including savings in the from these acquisitions in the second half procurement of shared raw materials.
of the year due to the effects of acquisition As part of the integration, a number of accounting and transaction costs.
people from our Mondi TSP operation in Thailand attended training at Mondi Fixed costs were higher, in line with Gronau, our largest production facility our increased focus on innovation and in Germany.
customer service, partially offset by one-off gains in the first half of the year.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 65 Partnering with our customers to In particular, we have focused on improving Our TRCR moved up slightly during 2016 develop innovative solutions the convenience of our products through and we are working hard to entrench a design innovations and enhancements to strong safety culture with a preventative Flexible packaging can provide product look and feel.
Recent innovations and proactive mindset through our focus considerable advantages over rigid include an expansion of our spouted pouch on the top risks, training, and investment.
packaging alternatives, saving packaging range to provide a number of new features At Gronau, our largest and most complex material and reducing their carbon footprint such as paper touch, and the development site, we trained around 700 of our shopand water usage.
Through our customerof a flexible, reclosable, box-shaped bag floor team including shift managers in focused innovation activities, we aim to that provides large, attractive, and highbehavioural safety to help improve our develop products that offer the same, or quality printed display surfaces.
approach to identifying and eliminating risk better, properties and features as their rigid and unsafe behaviour.
Safety remains a key packaging alternatives, resulting in savings Growing responsibly and inspiring our focus and we continue to put the necessary for our customers and reducing the impact people for long-term success training and procedures in place to ensure of packaging materials on the environment.
all our new entities meet the Mondi safety The outcomes of the latest Group-wide We have appointed a chief innovation standards as quickly as possible.
employee survey confirmed the need for officer and reorganised our research and improved communication and information development activities to further strengthen sharing.
Our employees have asked us to our capabilities in this area.
streamline our decision-making processes We are pleased to be one of P&Gs and procedures, keep them up to date on innovation partners and are working our business performance and plans, and closely with them in a number of areas involve them more in the identification of to deliver cost savings through technical new opportunities.
We recently announced improvements to existing products: as a new management structure with clear well as developing innovative, sustainable lines of authority which, combined with a new solutions.
new chief innovation officer, should facilitate improved communication and position us In addition to the development of new for further growth.
products, our innovation activities are also focused on providing incremental improvements to existing products.
SpoutedPouch: Expanding our no mess, no hassle solution into Europe Produced at: Mondi Jackson US, Mondi KSP South Korea, and now Mondi Solec Poland More customer-focused than you expect.
We are determined to help our customers become even more successful.
Our SpoutedPouch solution offers all the benefits of stand-up pouches and also provides easy-to-open, easy-to-use and easy-toreclose spouts.
It is most often used for fruit juices, pures and condiments such as mayonnaise.
One of the key advantages for our customers and their customers is the significantly extended shelf life and reduced risk of contamination, due to its reclosable nature, and the barrier properties of the films used to produce the pouch.
This innovative packaging solution prioritises convenience for the end-user, minimises waste, simplifies portion control, reduces transportation costs, and enhances shelf-appeal.
The global market for stand-up pouches is growing considerably and is set to hit some 38 million units 1 by 2020.
We are excited to have recently expanded our spouted flexible pouch operations into Poland, which provides the perfect central location to meet the needs of our customers in Europe.
1 Research by Schnwald Consulting: Report on Retortable Stand-Up Pouches and Stand-Up Pouches with Spouts, 2016 66 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Uncoated Fine Paper Our Uncoated Fine Paper UFP business manufactures and sells an extensive rangeof quality papers for use in offices and professional printing houses.
To customers Wood bre Pulp mill To customers Ofce paper Professional Paper mill printing paper Operating sites Revenue Underlying operating profit million million 4 in 3 countries 1,246m 264m Employees ROCE 1,466 264 1,335 5,600 1,240 1,233 1,246 212 186 164 Production capacity 148 Pulp: 1,185 ktpa Uncoated fine paper: 1,421 ktpa Key industries served Graphic and photographic 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Office and professional printing 16.7% 16.0% 16.1% 25.6% 36.0% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 67 Uncoated Fine Paper Were a European market-leader, with a Our extensive range of office papers is All our uncoated fine papers belong to the focus on emerging Europe and Russia.
designed to achieve optimal print results Green Range, Mondis umbrella trademark We operate a vertically integrated, highon laser, inkjet and copy machines.
for sustainable paper and packaging quality, low-cost asset base, and we are solutions.
They are produced from FSC High-performance professional printing continually looking for ways to improve or PEFC-certified wood from sustainably papers are dedicated for offset presses, efficiency and productivity.
managed forests or 100% recycled paper, high-speed inkjet presses and the latest or are produced totally chlorine free.
We continually strive to transform digital print technologies.
We aim to responsibly sourced raw materials provide customers a one-stop-shop into innovative paper solutions to meet solution for their needs.
customer needs in a responsible, costeffective and sustainable way.
Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers 2016 highlights 2017 objectives Driving performance to optimise quality, e Productivity and cost improvements through e Optimise product mix in line with customer productivity and efficiency procurement activities, headcount optimisation and demand, and focus on energy efficiency, waste efficiency improvements reduction and efficient use of raw materials Investing in our high-quality, low-cost e Systematic renewal of transport fleet in Russian e Execution of power plant modernisation and assets to keep us competitive forestry operations and investment in infrastructure waste water treatment projects at Syktyvkar tooptimisecosts Russia e Work with Packaging Paper on Ruomberok mill Slovakia expansion Partnering with our customers to e Further improved quality and delivery performance e Mondi4Me initiative to provide customers with develop innovative solutions a single interface for product information, order processing and query management Growing responsibly and inspiring our e Talent development programme in Russia yielding e Improve communication, providing regular people for long-term success significant benefits feedback to employees on plans and performance e No recordable safety incidents during our maintenanceshuts e Continue community investment activities, with a focus on education and local community e SEAT report published for Syktyvkar logging empowerment operations Sticky notes Our coloured papers are used by converters to create specialised products such as release liners, envelopes, labels and stationery including sticky notes.
Sticky notes are used in offices and homes across the world to encourage productivity and creativity.
Mondi has a long history of innovative product development and can also codevelop custom-made products from our assortment of paper grades.
MAESTRO PRINT This reliable and flexible uncoated wood-free paper Color Copy has been specifically designed for offset printing and Color Copy has been Europes leading colour laser has excellent surface properties for perfect print runs.
It is specifically designed Additional benefits include exceptional runnability so for digital printing to deliver brilliant, true to life colour that printing machines can operate at full speed and copies and perfect print results every time.
As a fully high dimensional stability for sharp, multi-coloured CO neutral product that is EU Ecolabel and FSC 2 print results.
We have chosen to print our integrated certified, Color Copy offers customers an exceptional report on MAESTRO PRINT.
68 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Production information In Russia, wood costs were lower in rouble terms, while in Europe wood costs 2016 2015 increased marginally.
Our commercial Uncoated fine paper 000 tonnes 1,408 1,379 excellence programmes, focused on Hardwood pulp 000 tonnes 853 839 purchased material, operating efficiencies and productivity improvements, contributed Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 334 349 to good cost control, offsetting inflationary Newsprint 000 tonnes 202 197 cost pressures, most notably in Russia.
Hardwood pulp prices were 11% lower in Financial performance euro terms providing a benefit to our semimillion % change 2016 2015 integrated Neusiedler Austria operations.
Segment revenue 1% 1,246 1,233 Planned maintenance shuts were completed Underlying EBITDA 18% 343 291 at Syktyvkar in the first half of the year, at Ruomberok in both the first and second Underlying operating profit 25% 264 212 half, and at Neusiedler in the second half Underlying operating profit margin 21.2% 17.2% of the year.
In 2017, our Syktyvkar shut is Capital expenditure 53 65 planned for the first half of the year and our Net segment assets 851 821 Ruomberok and Neusiedler mill shuts are scheduled for the second half.
ROCE 36.0% 25.6% Driving performance to optimise Sustainable development quality, productivity and efficiency 2016 2015 We have a strong culture of driving TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.27 0.29 optimisation and efficiency at all our sites.
Energy consumption million GJ 65.19 65.79 This includes improving productivity, improving the use of raw materials, Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 2.13 2.32 2 increasing energy efficiency, and reducing Forest certification % managed land certified waste.
In 2016 we made good progress to FSC and PEFC through our procurement activities: 1 standards 100 100 meeting productivity targets: and focus on FSC or PEFC certified wood % 79 79 optimising efficiency, leading to a reduction in the consumption of process materials.
Environmental management % of pulp and paper mills certification and forestry operations Our incremental improvements enabled certified to ISO 14001 us to increase total production by around standards 100 100 30,000 tonnes during the year, enabled 1 Lease exchange in 2016 in Russia resulted in a new lease of around 39,000 hectares which will be by production records at two of our pulp FSC certified during 2017 mills and four of our paper machines.
We continue to refine our product mix in line with customer demand and have increased Financial review Benchmark average selling prices in our capacity for reels and folio products, Europe were similar to the prior year, but Our Uncoated Fine Paper business while reducing our cut-size production.
2% down in the second half of the year delivered an exceptional performance, compared to the first half.
Selling price generating underlying operating profit of Investing in our high-quality, low-cost increases were implemented at the 264 million, up 25% on the prior year, with assets to keep us competitive beginning of the year but came under a ROCE of 36%.
Domestic price increases The Boards have approved the rebuild of the pressure early in the second half due to in the CIS markets and a strong focus on power plant at Syktyvkar.
The existing plant weak European demand and pressure from productivity and efficiency more than offset is more than 50 years old and we will replace imports offsetting the benefits of industry negative currency effects from the weaker three bark boilers and four turbines with a capacity rationalisation in the prior year.
rouble and flat European pricing.
single new bark boiler and turbine.
This will Demand improved towards the end of the Uncoated fine paper sales volumes provide significant process simplification, year and a price increase of 5-7% has been increased 1% over the prior year, reflecting improved reliability, reduced maintenance announced across all uncoated fine paper a strong performance in an overall declining costs, and a reduction in maintenance and grades in Europe from February 2017. market.
European market demand is operating personnel.
We will also realise Selling prices were increased in Russia at estimated to have contracted in 2016 by the benefits of a reduction in natural gas the beginning of 2016, offsetting the effects 3-4%, following stable demand in 2015, consumption and an increase in the use of of domestic cost inflation.
Prices remain bringing the average demand contraction biomass for energy.
stable going into 2017. over the past two years to 1-2% per year, in line with the longer-term trend.
Demand in The business benefited from generally the CIS remained stable.
lower input costs, particularly energy costs.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 69 In 2016, as part of the latest phase of our Our hybrid printing papers provide flexibility In 2016 we published the report on ongoing investment into our waste water in the printing technology used from our standard, third party facilitated, treatment plant at Syktyvkar, we installed offset printing and pre-printed forms to socio-economic assessment process new buffer tanks and mixing chambers to laser printing.
of stakeholder dialogue SEAT for the allow for the improved mixing of municipal Syktyvkar logging operations.
We provide NEUJET is our high speed inkjet paper, and industrial waste water.
This has improved support for local infrastructure improvements designed to close the gap to offset coated operating efficiency.
The Boards have also and continue to offer the services of our printing technology, for use in medium to approved the next phase of investment, Syktyvkar medical centre.
In Austria we heavy-colour direct mail applications, graphic which will significantly improve waste water are working with Volkshilfe, a charitable arts, and book printing.
PERGRAPHICA quality, reducing chemical oxygen demand organisation that supports social institutions is our design paper range for sophisticated and total suspended solids.
and projects in Austria and internationally, and elegant printed documents, targeting the hosting refugees from Afghanistan and Our forests in Russia are critical to our creative industry.
providing them with financial support.
We continue to invest in sustainably Growing responsibly and inspiring our managed forestry operations and improved We are committed to making a real and people for long-term success transportation safety and efficiency.
We have lasting contribution to the communities systematically renewed our harvesting and in which we operate, with education We take the outcomes of our Group-wide transport fleet over the last few years and being a key focus.
At all our operations employee surveys very seriously and were continue to invest in the modernisation of our we support local educational institutions extremely pleased with the significant forestry assets and infrastructure.
from kindergartens through to universities improvement in our latest survey results by providing donations of paper and following the actions implemented after Partnering with our customers to financial support.
At university level, we the 2013 survey.
Our employees want develop innovative solutions sponsor bursaries, research activities and us to continue to improve our levels of postgraduate theses, and provide summer We continue to deliver excellent customer communication and provide regular work opportunities.
service, and have commenced our feedback on our performance and plans.
Mondi4Me initiative a web-based solution The training, development, and retention designed to provide our customers with of our people is critical to our longimproved service and a single interface term success.
Our talent development where they can obtain detailed product programme in Russia is yielding significant information, place orders, log queries, and benefits.
In 2016, we had 50 internal manage and track their orders and queries promotions, 12 new appointments, and online.
In addition to information about provided more than 230,000 hours of the sustainability of our fibre sources, our training.
We have expanded this programme customers require extensive information to our Ruomberok mill as we gear up for the on social sustainability, human rights Packaging Paper kraft top white investment in our supply chain, and environmental and make provision for a number of performance.
This 24 7 service is essential employees approaching retirement age.
to enhancing the experience of our PERGRAPHICA : Partnering with customers.
The first phase will be launched We are very pleased with our safety record, the Bolshoi Theatre in the pursuit in the second quarter of 2017 and further with no fatalities or life-altering injuries of perfection functionality will be added over time.
during the year and our maintenance shuts carried out without a recordable incident.
Produced at: Mondi Neusiedler Austria In delivering service excellence, we We have continued with our focus on the have targeted improvements in quality More performance-driven than you expect.
top fatal risks, with a special focus on nip Every day.
and delivery performance, and we have points and working at heights.
In response Our first collection of design papers combines reworked our complaint management to previous incidents at Syktyvkar, we unique printing properties and brilliant colour process.
We have negotiated customer reproduction.
This EU Ecolabel and FSChave tightened our controls on the type of specific service level agreements with a certified paper was created specifically for the scaffolding used and implemented internal exacting needs of the creative and commercial number of our key customers, including joint training that includes the supervision of print industries.
The name, derived from Latin, target setting and forecasting and a focus work, allocation of responsibilities, and means the most exquisite and it is Mondis Paper on collaborative value creation projects.
It therefore just felt right when the Bolshoi Theatre At our Neusiedler mill we are focused We work closely with the local authorities of Russia chose PERGRAPHICA design paper for on improving our paper quality and have all its printing needs.
Yury Tikhonov, Director of the and communities in the areas where we also installed new equipment to meet Bolshoi Theatre printing house explained that the operate.
We seek to identify and, where the increasing demand for folio products paper reflects the way they interact with the audience, appropriate, assist with their local needs.
PERGRAPHICA shares emotions, visualises images and reels.
In Russia we are actively managing around and promotes creativity and inspiration.
The uncoated fine paper market is in 90 community and development projects in For Mondi it is a great honour to cooperate with the Bolshoi Theatre.
We are proud that PERGRAPHICA structural decline, with a downgrade in quality our forestry operations.
Our focus includes: incorporates professionalism and sophistication.
It is for everyday printing use but increasing the development of small businesses to optimised for hybrid printing that combines offset demand for high-quality printing papers for empower the local community: providing and digital dry toner printing.
Its distinctive shades use in the latest printing technologies digital support for independence and livelihoods: and surfaces add to its unique appeal.
and strengthening our wood supply chain.
70 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews South Africa Division Our South Africa Division sustainably manages plantation forests and manufactures and sells pulp, virgin containerboard and uncoated fine paper.
To customers Wood bre Pulp mill To customers Ofce paper Professional printing paper Paper mill To customers Virgin containerboard Operating sites Revenue Underlying operating profit million million 2 in South Africa 594m 147m Production capacity ROCE Pulp: 900 ktpa 161 702 652 147 624 Uncoated fine paper: 270 ktpa 596 594 Containerboard: 270 ktpa 112 93 Employees 69 1,700 Key industries served 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Office and professional printing Shipping and transport Packaging and paper converting 9.6% 16.0% 21.9% 30.1% 27.8% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 71 South Africa Division We are focused on leveraging our strong We manage about 250,000 hectares In addition to certification and sustainable domestic market position and the global of plantation forests in South Africa and procurement practices, we focus on the competitiveness of our Richards Bay mill.
maintain 100% FSC certification of our proactive and responsible stewardship With a history spanning 50 years, we forests including the identification and of forests and freshwater ecosystems, understand the value of being efficient, protection of high conservation value areas.
and the maintenance of biodiversity and cost-competitive and customer-focused.
Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers 2016 highlights 2017 objectives Driving performance to optimise quality, e Forestry modernisation programme improves all e Continue to improve stability and reliability productivity and efficiency aspects of our forestry operations of Richards Bay mill through equipment replacement, process optimisation and use ofexperts Investing in our high-quality, low-cost e Upgraded our woodyard at Richards Bay providing a e Optimise recently completed capital investments assets to keep us competitive significant improvement in overall efficiency e Completed project to produce unbleached kraftliner, expanding our product range Partnering with our customers to e Customer survey shows that we remain supplier of e Progress plans for restarting second uncoated develop innovative solutions choice, with long-term relationships and high-quality fine paper machine and reducing newsprint products production in line with customer demand Growing responsibly and inspiring our e Improved safety record, with no recordable cases e Implement plans to further reduce water people for long-term success during our annual maintenance shut or fire season in consumption in response to drought our forests e Provide ongoing support to local communities e WWF-Mondi Wetlands programme WWF-MWP through education and assisting with celebrates 25 years  Rotatrim Baycel This multifunctional office paper is South Africas This 100% elemental chlorine free bleached iconic office paper brand.
It is made from elemental Eucalyptus pulp, made from FSC-certified wood, chlorine free pulp and runs smoothly through is used in the production of coated and uncoated photocopiers, laser and inkjet printers.
Over the past fine paper grades, tissue, kraftliner and speciality 30-plus years, Rotatrim has achieved a number papers.
Our innovative clonal propagation technology of milestones including ISO accreditation in enhances the desirable properties of this premium environment, quality and safety: and FSC Chain-Ofquality pulp.
ProVantage Baywhite Our premium quality uncoated white top kraftliner is produced from 100% virgin kraft fibre, ensuring excellent strength and high-quality printing.
ProVantage Baywhite offers customers a wide range of solutions for packaging fruit, beverages and luxury goods.
Further applications are point-of-sale displays, promotional corrugated, and shelf-ready packaging.
72 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Business reviews Production information Inflationary price increases in labour and electricity, higher wood costs mainly due to 2016 2015 the forestry revaluation, and the impact of Containerboard 000 tonnes 253 247 the weaker South African rand on imported Uncoated fine paper 000 tonnes 258 240 materials put pressure on input costs.
These impacts were partially mitigated Hardwood pulp by our focus on cost optimisation, driving Internal consumption 000 tonnes 322 305 efficiencies and reducing waste.
Market pulp 000 tonnes 280 314 An extended planned maintenance shut at Newsprint 000 tonnes 111 113 Richards Bay, which included the tie-in of our Softwood pulp internal consumption 000 tonnes 148 138 recent capital investments, took place during the second half of 2016 and a much shorter Financial performance shut is planned for the second half of 2017. million % change 2016 2015 Driving performance to optimise Segment revenue 9% 594 652 quality, productivity and efficiency Underlying EBITDA 9% 182 199 We benefit from low-cost timber from our Underlying operating profit 9% 147 161 sustainably managed forestry plantations.
Our forestry modernisation programme has Underlying operating profit margin 24.7% 24.7% been completed, and we have improved Special items 6 all aspects of our forestry operations from Capital expenditure 58 61 our nurseries to our harvesting activities.
Net segment assets 731 563 We have significantly improved our timber yield and delivered sustainable cost ROCE 27.8% 30.1% improvements.
Increased utilisation of residual raw materials from our forests for Sustainable development use in our biomass boiler has increased 2016 2015 energy self-sufficiency and reduced our TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.39 0.49 reliance on fossil fuels.
Energy consumption million GJ 28.66 28.53 In our efforts to improve the stability and Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 1.36 1.35 2 reliability of our Richards Bay mill, we have continued with a programme of Forest certification % managed land certified replacing old equipment, reorganised to FSC standards 100 100 our maintenance activities, increased our FSC certified wood % 79 77 engineering complement, and redesigned Environmental management % of pulp and paper mills our process control parameters.
The work certification and forestry operations we have done towards optimising fibre certified to ISO 14001 recovery on our paper machines has led to standards 100 100 a significant reduction in odour complaints resulting from sulphur-based emissions from our pulp operations, although this Financial review Domestic selling prices were higher across remains a key area of focus.
Export prices for white-top Our South Africa Division was negatively kraftliner were broadly in line with the prior Investing in our high-quality, low-cost affected by sharply lower average pulp year and average benchmark US dollar assets to keep us competitive export selling prices and higher input costs, pulp prices were around 11% lower than which were only partially offset by positive Towards the end of 2016 we completed the previous year.
Lower export prices were currency effects, a higher fair value gain the investment project to upgrade our partially compensated by the weaker rand.
on forestry assets, and domestic price woodyard at our Richards Bay mill, allowing increases.
Underlying operating profit of for improved efficiencies in wood handling Forestry gains are dependent on a variety 147 million was down 9% on a very strong processes in our forests and providing of factors over which we have limited performance in the prior year, and ROCE higher-quality fibre.
In 2016, selling prices of timber was 27.8%.
include reduced maintenance costs, increased significantly and a fair value improved reliability, and some gain of 64 million 2015: 40 million was Strong domestic demand for uncoated fine energy savings.
recognised, of which 48 million was paper and white-top kraftliner was met by recognised in the first half of the year.
reducing exports of these products and Our investment to expand our product The increase in the fair value gain was increasing the amount of pulp converted to range by producing unbleached kraftliner offset by the consequent impact of higher these paper grades.
Domestic demand for in addition to white-top kraftliner at our felling costs.
pulp decreased, compensated by a higher Richards Bay mill gives us the opportunity level of exports.
Overall, sales volumes were to supply our customers with this marginally lower than in the prior year.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 73 Partnering with our customers to We continue to focus on the efficient use In 2016, we added a sixth mobile clinic and, develop innovative solutions of water at all our operations, and have through Mondi Zimele, we have funded reduced freshwater consumption by 12% over 100 small businesses which to date At our Merebank operation, we have made compared to 2015.
In our forests, as a have provided employment to more than the decision to restart our second uncoated result of the drought, we have reduced our 2,800 people.
We have also sponsored the fine paper machine to meet domestic replanting activities, the growth of our trees construction of two science laboratories demand for reels and, at the same time, has been affected, and their resistance to at local schools.
We continue to support reduce our production of newsprint in disease and insects has declined.
educational programmes such as bursaries: response to declining demand.
provide HIV-AIDS counselling and treatment Our latest Group-wide employee survey We conducted a customer survey during for employees and contractors: contribute results show good all round improvement the year, and we remain the supplier of to sustainable infrastructure such as agribut our employees still want us to choice to our domestic customers who villages: and empower local enterprises to further improve our communication and appreciate our reliable products, long-term support local livelihoods.
We have extended our 360 relationships, and the value we add to their assessment of our Isibindi project, which management reviews to foreman level and businesses.
We have worked closely with targets support for orphans and vulnerable introduced a development course for our our newsprint customers to enhance the children on and around our forestry land, first line supervisors.
reflected significant development value from our initiatives as perceived by local partners We initiated a revised training programme for Growing responsibly and inspiring our and stakeholders.
The lessons from this first line managers safety and health training, people for long-term success assessment will enable us to further improve which will continue in 2017.
We are pleased The extended drought in South Africa our community investments throughout that we experienced no serious safety remains a significant challenge, with the the Group.
incidents during our planned maintenance primary supply dam for our Richards Bay shuts or during the fire season in our In 2016, we celebrated 25 years of the mill at only 18% of capacity at the end of forests in 2016.
However, it is with heartfelt WWF-MWP, with Mondi as the primary the year, compared to 33% at the same sadness that we report the fatality of one of funder of this programme since 2001.
We are time in the previous year.
We are working our contractors in February 2017, following extremely proud of this collaboration which with government and other industries in a timber vehicle accident in our forestry has brought the important role that wetlands the region to find potential solutions to operations.
We will intensify our focus on play to the forefront of conservation efforts, this challenge.
Plans include reducing top risks and continue to identify appropriate and driven change in the way that wetlands total water consumption, the municipality actions to engineer out these risks.
We focus are identified, delineated, restored and increasing the volume of water piped from the majority of our community involvement protected across sectors in South Africa the Tugela River to the supply dam, and around our forestry operations due to the and beyond.
investigating further recycling of water.
scale and nature ofthese operations.
WWF-Mondi Wetlands Programme: Celebrating 25 years and a global conservation partnership In cooperation with: WWF International More international than you expect.
The 25 year history of the WWF-MWP embodies the qualities that make a partnership successful.
It is about people believing in the value of the work being done backed up by insightful leadership, enduring relationships, strong technical input and consistent corporate funding to develop and maintain a core team of experts.
The WWF-MWP work done in South Africa built trust between Mondi and WWF and led to discussions about how to develop a wider partnership.
There was already a good working relationship in Russia, with a focus on identifying and protecting the remaining large, intact boreal forests.
In 2014 the WWF-Mondi Global Partnership was launched and WWF-MWP is now part of a global conservation partnership working in South Africa, Europe and Russia to make an impact at a greater scale.
It has also stretched its focus beyond wetlands and is, through an integrated crosssectoral approach, piloting new and exciting water stewardship approaches in some of South Africas key catchments.
Governance Introduction from DLC sustainable jointchairmen 76 developmentcommittee 102 Board of directors 78 Mondi Limited social andethics committee 104 Corporate governance report 80 DLC executive committee 105 DLC nominations Remuneration report 109 committee 90 Other statutory DLC audit committee 93information 130 Thanks to its water-repellent qualities, Mondis fully biodegradable and compostable speciality kraft paper Advantage MF EcoComp is the perfect material for our organic waste bag.
Christer Hansson Managing Director, Svenco Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
