Strategic Report Business Review the Board and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted Business Model accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not Business and Status be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to The Company is an investment company within the meaning of over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure may, on section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock Performance Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of risk.
The Company has a fixed share capital although subject to performance measures to assess the Companys success in shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own achieving its objectives.
The price of the Companys shares is determined, like Key Performance Indicators other listed shares, by supply and demand.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM progress and performance of the Company over time are Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet established industry measures and are as follows: the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the return basis: Corporation Tax Act 2010. the movement in the share price on a total return basis: The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the the discount: and purposes of the EU Alternative Fund Managers Directive.
Objective and Policy The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on The Companys objective is to invest globally to achieve capital pages 12 to 14.
In addition to the above, the Board also growth.
This takes priority over income and dividends.
considers peer group comparative performance.
Monks seeks to meet its objective by investing principally in a Principal Risks portfolio of global quoted equities.
Equities are selected for their As explained on pages 22 and 23 there is an ongoing process for inclusion within the portfolio solely on the basis of the strength of identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the the investment case.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of There are no limits to geographical or sector exposures, but these the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or that adequate diversification is achieved.
The number of holdings liquidity.
A description of these risks and how they are being in equities typically ranges from 70 to 200.
At the financial year managed or mitigated is set out below.
end, the portfolio contained 112 equity holdings.
A portfolio Financial Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed review by the Managers is given on pages 4 to 8 and the securities and its principal financial risks are therefore market investments held at the year end are listed on pages 9 to 11. related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum explanation of those risks and how they are managed is permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 44 to aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
To mitigate this risk, the composition and diversification of the quoted equities may be purchased from time to time including portfolio by geography, industry, growth category, holding size fixed interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The and thematic risk category are considered at each Board meeting Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio along with sales and purchases of investments.
Individual management including reducing, transferring or eliminating investments are discussed with the Managers together with their investment risk in its investments and protection against currency general views on the various investment markets and sectors.
A risk and to achieve capital growth.
strategy meeting is held annually.
While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment trust when constructing the portfolio: the portfolio may, therefore, differ companies, the UKLA Listing rules and the Companies Act could substantially from that of the index.
A long term view is taken and lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains, there may be periods when the net asset value per share declines suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative index.
penalties or a qualified audit report.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital growth.
Giffords Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on those seeking a regular or rising income.
Major regulatory change Borrowings are invested in equities and other asset classes when could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the this is considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
In such circumstances representation is made to Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are The Monks Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report recognised.
Shareholder documents and announcements, In making this assessment the Directors have taken into account including the Companys published Interim and Annual Report the Companys current position and have conducted a robust and Financial Statements, are subject to stringent review assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties as processes and procedures are in place to ensure adherence to detailed on pages 15 and 16, in particular the impact of market the Transparency Directive with reference to inside information.
risk where a significant fall in global equity markets would adversely impact the value of the investment portfolio.
The Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys Directors have also considered the Companys investment assets may be compromised through control failures by the objective and policy, the level of demand for the Companys Depositary, including cyber hacking.
To mitigate this risk, the shares, the nature of its assets, its liabilities and projected income Board receives six monthly reports from the Depositary confirming and expenditure.
The vast majority of the Companys investments safe custody of the Companys assets.
Cash and portfolio are readily realisable and can be sold to meet its liabilities as they holdings are independently reconciled to the Custodians records fall due, the main liabilities currently being the debenture stock by the Managers.
The Custodians audited internal controls repayable in 2023 and short term bank borrowings.
In addition, reports are reviewed by Baillie Giffords Internal Audit Department substantially all of the essential services required by the Company and a summary of the key points is reported to the Audit are outsourced to third party service providers: this allows key Committee and any concerns investigated.
In addition, the service providers to be replaced at relatively short notice where existence of assets is subject to annual external audit.
Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords accounting systems Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable or those of other third party service providers could lead to an expectation that the Company will be able to continue in inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over at least the misappropriation of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has next three years.
a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews Baillie Giffords The Board recognises the requirement to provide information Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other third party about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the providers are reviewed by Baillie Gifford on behalf of the Board.
Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive Discount volatility the discount at which the Companys shares and all its functions are outsourced, these requirements do not trade can widen.
To mitigate this risk, the Board monitors the level apply to the Company.
of discount and the Company has authority to buy back its own Gender Representation shares.
The Board comprises six Directors, five male and one female.
The Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any set out on page 21. borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell Environmental, Social and Governance Policy investments to repay borrowings.
The Company can also make Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment use of derivative contracts.
To mitigate this risk all borrowings can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on require the prior approval of the Board and leverage levels are page 23. discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to that are readily realisable.
Further information on leverage can be make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, the found on page 55.
Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the Viability Statement Managers under the Act will be published on the Managers Having regard to provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance website within the applicable time period.
Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company Future Developments of the Company over a three year period.
The Directors believe this period to be The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans appropriate as, in the absence of any adverse change to the Statement on page 2 and the Managers Report on pages 4 and 5. regulatory environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded to UK investment trusts, it is a period over which they do not expect there to be any significant change to the current principal The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 16 was approved risks and to the adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
The by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 15 June 2016.
Directors do not envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate over that period.
JGD Ferguson Chairman 16 Annual Report 2016
