Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 10 Emerging Markets Our strategy Business Our strategy is rooted in our vision and review brand promise of Enabling Positive Futures.
Our customers span all income segments and include both retail and Old Mutual corporate relationships.
Our business model uniquely positions us to deliver on this vision.
By focusing on our Emerging customers needs both in our asset gathering eg, by promoting financial inclusion and providing financial education Markets and advice and in our asset management eg, by deploying funds responsibly into infrastructure, renewable energy and housing activities we remain relevant in the face of social, environmental and technological change.
This vision is in line with our heritage and we believe it aligns with the expectations of our current and future customers as well as broader stakeholder groups such as employees we want to attract and retain, the communities we operate in, regulators, governments and shareholders.
We execute on our vision through an integrated financial services offering across Iain Williamson our core African markets, where this holistic Interim Chief Executive Officer proposition is most appropriate.
This positions us to meet customers various Old Mutual Emerging Markets needs including life insurance, property & casualty insurance, savings, and lending through our unique distribution footprint, with a leading multi-channel network, our extensive branch network and an enhanced customer experience.
This enables us to be competitive in the mass market in South Our integrated financial services Africa and the other markets we serve offering positions us to meet across Africa.
Given the demographic trends in these markets, our strong customers various financial needs customer proposition positions us for through our leading multi-channel superior growth and returns into the distribution network, our extensive foreseeable future, to the benefit of all stakeholders.
branch network and an enhanced customer experience www.
