Strategic Report Business Review performance and emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
Business Model The portfolio does not set out to reproduce the index and there Business and Status will be periods when performance diverges significantly from the The Company is an investment company within the meaning of benchmark.
section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed long term investment considerations merit the Company taking a companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock geared position.
Apart from in exceptional market conditions the Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of risk.
The Company has a fixed amount of share capital although, borrowing, this takes the level of gearing beyond 30% calculated subject to shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies its own shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares AIC guidelines.
In any event, the Company will not exceed the is determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
limit on borrowings set out in its Articles of Association, which The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM provide that the amount of all the Companys borrowings shall Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the shareholders, exceed one half of the aggregate issued and fully Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to paid share capital and capital reserves of the Company and, in comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the addition, that the Company may from time to time borrow for Corporation Tax Act 2010. temporary purposes sums not exceeding 20% of the Companys The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the issued and fully paid share capital.
purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Proposed Changes to Investment Objective and Policy Directive.
Shareholders authority is being sought at the forthcoming Annual Investment Objective General Meeting to amend the Companys investment objective Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
This proposal is explained in the Circular which is being The objective is to maximise total return from a portfolio of long sent to Shareholders with this Annual Report.
The current term investments chosen on a global basis whilst also generating investment objective and policy is set out above.
The Managers Core Investment Beliefs with respect to the Company are set out on page 14.
Investment Policy Investment is predominantly in equities.
The number of equity Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found holdings will typically range between 50 and 100 and the portfolio in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the can be relatively concentrated.
Achieving diversification is a Managers Review on pages 10 to 13.
A detailed analysis of the requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 16 to 20. approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to Discount Premium geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Portfolio The Company has powers to buy back its own shares at a concentration and levels of diversity are monitored by the Board discount to net asset value and to hold such shares in treasury as on a regular basis.
The maximum investment in any one holding is well as to sell treasury shares at a premium to net asset value.
limited to 8% of total assets at the time of purchase.
The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is shareholders to manage discount volatility and believes that the paid to short term market trends when deciding strategy.
This prime driver of discounts over the longer term is performance.
patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to The Board does not have a formal discount target at which shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for shares will be bought back as it believes that the announcement investments of five years or more is targeted.
of specific targets is likely to hinder rather than help the successful The primary investment focus is on quoted equities predominantly execution of a buyback policy.
Investment may also be made in fixed interest During the year the Company bought back a total of 1,250,000 securities, convertible securities, funds, unquoted entities and shares, into treasury.
Between 1 April and 16 May 2016 no further other assets based on the individual investment case.
With prior shares were bought back.
approval of the Board, the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management for the purpose of During the year the Company sold 68,100,000 shares from reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its treasury at a premium to the net asset value.
Between 1 April and investment portfolio, including protection against currency risk 16 May 2016 a further 2,500,000 shares were sold from treasury and for investment purposes.
The maximum permitted investment at a premium to net asset value.
in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate is 15% of Performance gross assets.
At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE performance measures to assess the Companys success in All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period or achieving its objectives.
This benchmark is a reference point for considering Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report Key Performance Indicators Unlisted Investments the Companys risk could be increased by its investment in unlisted investments.
These assets may The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the be more difficult to buy or sell, so changes in their prices may progress and performance of the Company over time are be greater.
established industry measures and are as follows: To mitigate this risk, the Board considers the unlisted investments the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after in the context of the overall investment strategy and provides deducting borrowings at fair value : guidance to the Managers on the maximum exposure to unlisted the movement in the share price: investments.
the movement of net asset value and share price performance Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and compared to the Benchmark: regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment trust the premium discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, ongoing charges ratio: financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being revenue return: and subject to tax on capital gains.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Giffords dividend per share.
Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose pages 5, 6 and 21. disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such In addition to the above, the Board considers performance circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special against other companies within the AIC Global Sector.
circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Shareholder documents and announcements, including the Companys Borrowings published Interim and Annual Report and Financial Statements, There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and are subject to stringent review processes, and procedures are in quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are place to ensure adherence to the Transparency Directive with given on page 48 and pages 53 to 55.
In addition, loan facilities reference to inside information.
are in place which are also shown on page 47.
Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys During the year the US$165 million 1 year loan with State Street assets may be compromised through control failures by the was repaid and replaced with a US$165 million 1 year loan with Depositary, including breaches of cyber security.
To mitigate this The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS.
risk, the Board receives six monthly reports from the Depositary Subsequent to the year end on 11 April 2016 the US$165 million confirming safe custody of the Companys assets.
Cash and 1 year loan with RBS was re-financed with a US$165 million portfolio holdings are independently reconciled to the Custodians 1 year loan with RBS.
Additionally, negotiations are underway to records by the Managers.
The Custodians audited internal refinance on 20 May 2016 the US$200 million 2 year loan with controls reports are reviewed by Baillie Giffords Internal Audit National Australia Bank NAB with a revolving US$200 million Department and a summary of the key points is reported to the 2 year loan with NAB.
Audit Committee and any concerns investigated.
In addition, the existence of assets is subject to annual external audit.
Principal Risks Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords accounting systems As explained on page 27 there is a process for identifying, or those of other third party service providers could lead to an evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company on a inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a regular basis.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment misappropriation of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency continued operation of the business in the event of a service or liquidity.
A description of these risks and how they are being disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews Baillie Giffords managed or mitigated is set out below: Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third Financial Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed party providers are reviewed by Baillie Gifford on behalf of the securities and its principal financial risks are therefore market Board.
related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest Premium Discount Volatility the premium discount at which rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An the Companys shares trade can change.
To mitigate this risk, the explanation of those risks and how they are managed is Board monitors the level of premium discount and the Company contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 50 to has authority to issue new shares and buy back its existing shares 55.
To mitigate this risk, the Board considers at each meeting when deemed by the Board to be in the best interests of the various metrics including portfolio concentration, regional and Company and its shareholders.
industrial sector weightings, top and bottom stock contributors to performance and contribution to performance by industrial sector.
Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment The Managers provide the rationale for stock selection decisions purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will and both the investment strategy and portfolio risk are formally magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not considered in detail annually.
renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
To mitigate this risk, all borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and leverage levels are discussed by the 08 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Board and Managers at every meeting.
The majority of the Based upon the Companys processes for monitoring operating Companys investments are in quoted securities that are readily costs, share price premium discount, the Managers compliance realisable.
Further information on leverage can be found in note with the investment objective, the portfolio risk profile, leverage, 20 on page 55 and the Glossary of Terms on page 61. counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the Board believes that the prospects of the Company are sound and Political Risk the Board is aware that the forthcoming UK the Directors are able to confirm that they have a reasonable Referendum on its membership of the European Union introduces expectation that it will continue in operation and meet its liabilities elements of political uncertainty which may have practical as they fall due over a period of at least 10 years.
consequences for the Company and its Managers.
Developments are being closely monitored and considered by the Board and the Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues Managers.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are nonexecutive and all its functions are outsourced, there are no Viability Statement disclosures to be made in respect of employees, human rights In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate and community issues.
Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 that the Directors assess the prospects of Gender Representation the Company over a defined period, the Directors have elected to The Board comprises seven Directors, five male and two female.
do so over a period of 10 years.
The Directors believe this period The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity to be appropriate as the investment objective of the Company is is set out on page 27. aimed at investors with a 5 to 10 year investment horizon and, subject to the assumptions detailed below, the Directors do not Environmental, Social and Governance Policy expect there to be any significant change to the current principal Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment risks facing Scottish Mortgage nor to the adequacy of the can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on controls in place to effectively mitigate those risks.
Furthermore, page 28. the Directors do not reasonably envisage any change in strategy The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of or any events which would prevent the Company from operating the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to over a 10 year period.
make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, the Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its Assumption 1 suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the There is no significant adverse change to the regulatory Managers under the Act will be published on the Managers environment and tax treatment enjoyed by UK investment trusts.
website within the applicable time period.
Assumption 2 Future Developments of the Company The Company does not suffer sustained inadequate relative The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans investment performance with the current or any successor fund Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Report on pages managers such that the Company fails to maintain a supportive 10 to 13. shareholder base.
Using the long term expectations of shareholders as the main determinant of the chosen assessment period, the Directors have conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as detailed on pages 8 and 9 and in particular the impact of market risk where a significant fall in global equity markets would adversely impact the value of the investment portfolio.
In reviewing the viability of the Company, the Directors have considered the key characteristics of the Company which include an investment portfolio that takes account of different degrees of liquidity, with moderate levels of debt and a business model where substantially all of the essential services required are outsourced to third party providers: this outsourcing structure allows key service providers to be replaced at relatively short notice where necessary.
The Directors have also considered the Companys leverage and liquidity in the context of fixed term debentures and short term bank loans, the revenue projections, the readily realisable nature of the portfolio which could be sold to provide funding if necessary and its stable closed end structure.
The Directors have concluded that these sustainable long term characteristics provide a high degree of flexibility to the Company and afford an ability to react so as to mitigate both controllable and most external uncontrollable risks and events in order to ensure the long term prosperity of the business.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09
