5 6 through direct and to create value for indirect channels... all our stakeholders.
Established distribution channels with wide reach through business partners, intermediates and directly 2.7p 90% partner to customers.
dividend 1 satisfaction per share Direct Indirect Our shareholders Our partners 88% 80% customer employee 2 3 satisfaction engagement Our customers Our people 30 Business partners Customers charities supported Our communities 1 Property Finance partner surveys, Q4 2016.
3 People Insight pulse survey, November 2016.
Underpinned by exemplary risk management, strong governance and our pragmatic culture 22-25% %% RoTE Lend to poorly Interest charged served customers Value created Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 19 A UNIqUE mODEL fOr A GOOD SENSE bUSINESS... We differentiate ourselves by concentrating on markets where our specialist knowledge and personalised approach to underwriting offer us a competitive advantage.
This supports attractive, stable returns and sustainable growth, and also benefits businesses and consumers in parts of the market which continue to be poorly served by mainstream banks.
Fundamental to our success is a relationship focus which puts the interests of our customers and business partners at the heart of everything we do, built on a culture which stresses the use of our experience and judgement to make decisions that balance risk, return and customer needs.
Turn over to read more about our business model Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20 Business review Chief Financial Officers review Dylan Minto 1 Key performance indicators Customer loans and Originations 4.1 4.1bn 2016 1.9 Customer loans 3.4 2015 1.7 1.9bn 2.3 Originations 2014 1.4 Customer loans bn Originations bn PBT and RoTE 91.4 91.4m 2016 19.4 Underlying PBT 80.1 2015 22.7 19.4% 49.1 Underlying RoTE 2014 17.0 PBT m Underlying RoTE % 1 See Basis of preparation on pages 2 and 3 for statutory equivalents.
In 2016, Shawbrook achieved 26% growth in statutory profit before tax PBT to 88.2 million 14% growth in underlying PBT to 91.4 million, driven by increased volumes and further cost efficiencies.
This includes costs and impairments relating to the controls breach in the Business Finance Division see page 49 in the Risk management report for further details.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 21 Financial discipline and strong perFormance Impairments and non-performing loans NPLs Solid financial performance The impairment charge for 2016 amounted to 24.3 million, Statutory return on tangible equity RoTE amounted to 18.8% 11.2 million of which related to the controls breach in the 2015: 20.7% and, on an underlying basis, RoTE was 19.4% Business Finance Division.
When excluding costs and impairments relating 35bps excluding the controls breach, compared to 24bps in 2015. to the controls breach in the Business Finance Division, RoTE The low levels of impairments that we continue to experience remained within our guidance, amounting to 22.0%.
are representative of the benign economic environment in which we are operating.
The widely anticipated downturn following the Net operating income UKs decision to leave the EU has yet to materialise, and whilst we The Group achieved a net interest margin NIM of 5.6% in 2016, remain cognisant of the macroeconomic environment, we have down from 6.2% in 2015.
This was due partly to a higher proportion yet to witness any associated material changes in the performance of lower yielding property loans following the portfolio acquisition of our loan book.
The non-performing loan NPL ratio as at made at the end of 2015: and partly to the higher yielding back 31 December 2016 of 0.99% 1.17% including the controls breach: book running off and being replaced by a lower yielding front book 31 December 2015: 0.65% continues to reflect the benign as a result of the lower for longer interest rate environment and economic environment with the increase largely attributable to increased competition in some of our markets.
However, following slower transaction cycles in a number of prime property segments the UKs decision to leave the EU, the Bank of England subsequently of the market, the time taken to optimise the recovery of assets reduced the Bank Rate and introduced the Term Funding Scheme in Business Finance and the maturity of the residential mortgage TFS, which have both had a beneficial impact on the cost of funds.
Our credit appetite remains conservatively positioned with significant collateral against our watch list cases.
Overall, our The Groups customer loans including operating leases, net of assessment of the impairment requirement against these cases provisions amounted to 4.1 billion at 31 December 2016, up results in a NPL provision coverage ratio of 51% at 31 December 2016.
The Group achieved originations of 1.9 billion in 2016, an increase of 14% compared to 1.7 billion in 2015, with all three divisions delivering record levels of originations as we continue to develop new products and expand into adjacent markets, for example, expansion into the development finance market, expansion into Jersey through Shawbrook International, and agreement of strategic partnerships which increase our addressable market e. g. Saga and RAC.
Administrative expenses Growth in income, coupled with continued operational efficiencies across the three divisions and in the central functions, resulted in a reduction in the cost to income ratio of 7.8 percentage points to 46.3% 3.2 percentage points on an underlying basis to 45.1%.
Administrative expenses including provisions for liabilities and charges amounted to 97.1 million in 2016 94.9 million on an underlying basis, compared to 90.3 million in 2015 80.8 million on an underlying basis.
The development of the COO function will drive further efficiencies in 2017 and beyond: however, we will continue to invest in innovative solutions to ensure our competitive advantages of exceptional service, and speed and certainty of delivery, remain best in class.
Read more about Read more about Read more about Read more about 04 16 91 116 2016 Key highlights Our strategy Directors Remuneration Report Operating performance Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22 Business review continued Chief Financial Officers review Consideration of accounting policy and regulatory changes Continue to build on conservative foundations During 2016 and continuing into 2017, there has been a particular Funding focus on our preparedness for IFRS 9, which aims to ensure we The Group continues to be primarily retail deposit funded, with a understand the impacts and have the necessary systems and loan to deposit ratio of 102.7% at 31 December 2016 31 December processes in place ahead of the effective date of 1 January 2018.
As at 31 December 2016, the Groups deposit balance Progress has been made in developing our Expected Credit Loss amounted to 3.9 billion, an increase of 24% from 3.2 billion at ECL models, including our Credit Grading Framework CGF.
The IFRS 9 programme, which is jointly sponsored by the Chief Following our entry into the easy access and ISA deposit markets Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer and managed by a dedicated in 2015, we have continued to diversify our deposit base, with 17% management committee, is currently within its build phase, with the relating to easy access products: however, we remain predominantly majority of the testing and implementation concluding during 2017. funded by longer-dated term and notice deposits.
The increase in Until such time as the ECL models including the CGF and futurethe proportion of easy access products, along with the exceptionally looking economic scenarios have been tested, we do not plan to low deposit rates in the market following the Bank Rate reduction quantify the impacts of IFRS 9. and introduction of the governments TFS, has resulted in a decrease in the cost of new deposit flows.
The cost of funds has reduced from Outlook 2.3% in 2015 to 2.2% in 2016, with further benefit expected in 2017 2016 was a pivotal year for Shawbrook, in which we invested and beyond as more expensive back-book deposits are replaced.
significantly across the bank to position us for continued success in the short and medium term.
Whilst we have seen little evidence to Capital date to suggest a downturn in the economy, we remain alert to the As part of its 2016 results announcement, the Group has announced potential effects of uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment that the Board has recommended a maiden final dividend of 2.7p following the triggering of Article 50.
We also continue to proactively per share, equating to c. 10% of 2016 post-tax profits, subject to monitor our risk appetite and underwriting criteria, policies and shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
procedures to ensure our loan book can withstand various macroeconomic scenarios.
The Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio and total capital ratio at 31 December 2016 were 13.3% and 16.4% respectively Our primary aim in 2017 and beyond is to maintain returns of 31 December 2015: 14.4% and 18.0% respectively.
The CET1 ratio between 22% and 25% whilst adhering to our conservative risk remains above our target minimum and our risk-weighted asset appetite and prudent approach to managing capital and liquidity.
RWA density RWAs divided by customer loans for the Group Should the economy weaken and we find ourselves unable to at 31 December 2016 was 68%.
This resulted in a leverage ratio deliver progressive growth within these parameters, we will look of 7.8% 2015: 7.6%.
We will continue to assess capital optimisation to realign our growth ambitions.
However, as of today we see no in conjunction with our growth strategy.
reason to scale back any of our initiatives and we are continuing to develop a number of new product and market opportunities in The Group continues to use standardised risk weights to calculate order to progressively grow our lending portfolio.
We are confident its capital requirement.
As we progress with our preparations for the that our diverse product offering and the flexibility and agility with implementation of IFRS 9, the models being built put us in a good which we can deploy capital put us in a favourable position to position to develop internal ratings-based IRB models which will ensure a successful year ahead, and beyond as we look to deliver allow us to consider the adoption of an advanced IRB approach.
A transition to an advanced IRB approach continues to be discussed and considered by management, with the changing regulatory environment being a catalyst for potential adoption.
Dylan Minto Chief Financial Officer Liquidity True to Shawbrooks conservative foundations, the Group continues to position risk appetite against its lending assets, with the majority of the Groups liquidity held with the Bank of England.
The liquidity ratio at 31 December 2016 was 16.8% 2015: 25.8% with 96.4% of the liquidity balance being liquidity buffer eligible assets 2015: 96.2%.
The Group has commenced utilisation of the Term Funding Scheme TFS to begin to replace its off-balance-sheet Treasury Bills acquired as part of the Funding for Lending Scheme FLS.
Going forward, we expect to continue to utilise the TFS.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 23 Property Finance Activity The Property Finance Division has a well-diversified product range with both residential and commercial mortgage offerings.
Within these broad markets, we actively specialise in the following areas: Residential: serving homeowners primarily through secondcharge mortgages and specialist first-charge mortgages.
Commercial: serving property professionals in both residential and commercial investment markets through the provision of traditional mortgages and short-term lending, and development finance to established SME housebuilders and well-established SME owner-occupiers.
The Divisions products are distributed through the mortgage intermediary market, leveraging long-established relationships We provide finance to the specialist and a highly regarded brand.
residential investment and Differentiation commercial property market and to The Property Finance Division is our most mature business, built on foundations of strong, longstanding relationships with professional property investors and mortgage brokers and intermediaries, working hand in hand to deliver exceptional service and positive outcomes for our customers.
In addition We remain progressive in our approach to further product we provide second-charge diversification and process innovation in order to continuously improve our customer service proposition.
For example, during mortgages to consumers.
2016, we formed a new specialist development finance team: took a leading role in the second-charge mortgage markets transition to mortgage regulation from the consumer credit regime: and introduced an electronic application E-AIP system for our investment mortgage products.
This E-AIP system now receives the majority of our initial case submissions, allowing us to deliver speedier and more efficient initial agreements in principle.
Pre-tax RoLA walk 2016 Our specialist knowledge and deep sector expertise allow us to continue to provide thoughtful judgement and a personal service.
6.6% We operate selectively within extensive markets and our specialist approach continues to resonate with customers.
Each loan is manually underwritten, allowing our teams to provide pragmatic 2.3% and good-sense solutions.
As with all our divisions, we continue to 0.7% maintain a sensible and clearly defined risk appetite which, allied to our robust underwriting processes, positions us appropriately 0.1% 3.6% through the cycle.
The breadth of our product range, combined with the exceptional service levels delivered by our teams, continue to receive industry accolades we received a total of 10 awards during 2016.
2016 Gross Liability Operating Cost of 2016 Yield RoLA Asset Yield Expenses Risk Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 24 Business review continued Property Finance Residential Commercial Our residential proposition remains predominantly focused on Our activity in the commercial markets remains focused on the second-charge mortgage market we provide a wide range providing financing to property professionals for the purpose of secured loans, primarily to super-prime and prime borrowers.
of investment, refurbishment or redevelopment and to SMEs for Loans are provided for a variety of purposes including home owner-occupied property.
Specialist buy-to-let BTL mortgages improvements, loan consolidation and large consumer purchases.
remain a significant part of our activity and we have seen strong growth during the year.
During 2016, second-charge mortgages transitioned to FCA regulation under the Mortgage Credit Directive, away from the We have progressed with our ambition to develop a capability former consumer credit regime.
This took place on 21 March within the development finance market, and we now have in place 2016 and created significant system, process and documentation a dedicated and experienced team who have commenced activity changes for the industry.
Our teams managed this transition well in a controlled manner.
Our early engagement in the market has with minimal disruption to lending flows.
This was a testament to reaffirmed our confidence in our product design and capability to the capability of our mortgage platform and the expertise of our offer a selective service to professional SME housebuilders, many of teams who, through our Academy programme, took a leading role whom we have existing relationships with.
Allied to the distribution in supporting our intermediary partners.
More broadly, the inclusion reach we have with our intermediary partners, we are able to adopt of second-charge lending within the mortgage market is having a controlled entry into this market, validating our principles in regard a significant impact on product distribution, as generalist advisers to risk appetite and customer service delivery.
become more aware of the product and the loan application process is more aligned to first-charge lending.
This has significant The BTL sector was subject to a number of material events in 2016. potential to grow the market, although 2016 volumes remained The stamp duty surcharge introduction at the beginning of Q2 had broadly flat.
We therefore believe that this growth will take some a distorting effect on transaction activity in Q1 and, combined with time to materialise.
the impending changes to interest tax relief for landlords, has started to drive an emerging trend of lower BTL purchases relative to 2015 Whilst remaining committed to maintaining our prominent position levels.
This has been offset, however, by significant demand for in the second-charge mortgage market, we have made progress refinancing driven by increasing liquidity.
with our plans to diversify into specialist segments of the first-charge market.
In Q1 2017, we will be actively launching a range of lending Financials and KPIs into retirement products and continue to explore other segments The Division has had a record year in terms of originations, driving where our pragmatic approach can deliver good outcomes for loan book growth of 21% to 2.5 billion at 31 December 2016.
The carefully identified customer segments.
change in mix following the acquisition of BTL loans and commercial mortgages in December 2015 contributed to a reduction in NIM to 4.3% in 2016 from 4.8% in 2015.
Continued adherence to strict underwriting criteria has resulted in a stable cost of risk of 0.1%, reflective of the continued benign macro environment.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 25 Outlook Going into 2017, most commentators forecast a slowing trend in Divisional KPIs BTL activity as the headwinds of stamp duty, interest tax relief and the introduction of a higher affordability standard for new lending combine.
We are confident our proposition is well placed for the Originations bn changing and increasingly complex environment in which landlords 2016 1.0 operate, and that our specialist underwriting capability and service 1.0bn proposition are well suited to supporting customers through 2015 0.8 these changes.
0.7 2014 Following the transition of second-charge mortgages from the consumer credit regime to the Mortgage Credit Directive, there is significant growth potential in the market, although it may take some time to materialise.
Following the launch of our lending into Customer loans bn retirement products, we would expect increasing originations 2.5 2016 throughout 2017 and beyond as significant volumes of interest-only 2.5bn mortgages begin to mature.
2015 2.1 1.4 2014 profit contribution m 82.5 2016 82.5m 62.0 2015 42.3 2014 Pre-tax RoLA % 2016 3.6 3.6% 3.9 2015 2014 3.9 Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 26 Commercial Property Finance GOOD SENSE IS bASED ON mOrE ThAN jUST brICkS AND mOrTAr The Commercial team at Shawbrook works closely with our panel of accredited Broker Partners, providing case-by-case lending decisions for their clients which are based on good sense and pragmatism.
In this case, our Strategic Broker Partner CPC Finances client has a strong track record in property investment.
The client, Mr Malkit Purewal, is a repeat customer of Shawbrook.
Partner story Malkit understands the importance of Shawbrook understands this and is time.
He has a clear business model prepared to work with you, not only based on the purchase of a property, do they turn deals around quickly they usually in need of repair, with a view keep you fully informed throughout to completing the renovation and the process.
then getting a tenant in as quickly as possible.
As his broker, I need to be able to understand his needs and place him with a lender that can meet his expectations.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 27 Customer story We have long-established relationships with both Shawbrook and the associated broker, CPC Finance.
This has given us comfort that they have a deep understanding of our investment strategy and business model.
When looking to obtain credit we need someone who is willing to work with us and be able to deliver quickly and effectively.
Emma and the team give us just that quick progress at the quality I expect.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 28 Business review Business Finance Activity The Business Finance Division has an extensive product range, enabling it to provide a comprehensive suite of services to address the needs of the poorly served UK SME market.
The Division is managed through three propositions: Regional Business Centres: proven lenders to established businesses in UK SME markets, primarily through a direct product offering.
Structured Finance: lending to SME finance companies with security against receivables within their portfolios.
Specialist Sectors: leasing and hire purchase finance solutions in specialist UK SME market segments such as marine and aviation, healthcare and taxis.
We primarily finance soft and Differentiation The Business Finance Division provides a comprehensive suite business critical assets operated of collateral-backed finance solutions for SMEs across the UK and by established UK SME and Jersey, competing on quality of service and speed of delivery.
We operate in several niche and poorly served markets, offering specialist businesses.
In addition, a well-diversified range of products.
we provide finance to smaller Following the global financial crisis many SMEs either lost funding UK financial institutions through lines due to the tightening of lending criteria from high-street banks and the exit of non-UK-based banks from the UK market, or wholesale and block facilities.
found that lenders ceased to provide the most appropriate funding to SMEs.
Whilst funding has returned to the SME market, levels remain significantly below pre-crisis levels and a proportion of the SME market therefore remains underserved, as there are fewer local experts and minimal opportunity to understand and price for idiosyncratic risk.
Pre-tax RoLA walk 2016 Our relationship-led model has an entrepreneurial edge which complements our high-touch, high quality service approach.
Our expert teams have deep sector understanding and recognise 8.6% that every SME is different and has different needs and risks.
Our pragmatic and personal attitude to lending allows us to consider 2.0% each circumstances merits and risks, manually underwriting each loan to ensure the Division generates strong risk-adjusted returns.
1.5% 1.4% 3.7% 2016 Gross Liability Operating Cost of 2016 Yield RoLA Asset Yield Expenses Risk Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 29 Regional Business Centres Structured Finance Shawbrooks Regional Business Centres RBCs primarily provide The Structured Finance product set provides wholesale finance leasing finance for business-critical assets operated by established and block discounting to smaller UK financial institutions to allow UK SME businesses, and working capital solutions in the form of customers to release cash and grow their businesses.
Loans are invoice discounting and asset-based lending.
The RBCs provide SMEs secured against receivables within the customers portfolios, with with access to the full suite of Shawbrook product offerings and the security given by the ultimate borrower taking the form of direct access to our sales experts.
They also provide intermediaries a hard asset or a pool of loan receivables.
and key business introducers with a first point of contact for Shawbrook, developing and enhancing the intermediary-led Products are distributed directly through a team of specialists distribution channel within our Business Finance Division.
located at our London and Dorking offices.
The team continues to expand as we achieve significant growth in our current markets as The locations of the RBCs have been carefully selected to provide well as continuing to develop new products to fulfil the needs of a wide and far-reaching geographical footprint, focusing on the customers.
In 2016, we launched an investor call bridge product, regions we believe are key to the growth of the SME market in the to provide liquidity to UK private equity funds, to assist them in UK.
Developing and supporting the growth of businesses located achieving higher returns.
We have also been actively involved in outside London is a top priority for the government and we are fully a number of syndicated loan propositions, attracting considerable committed to supporting growth in the economy across the whole trade media praise.
2016 was a highly successful year for Structured Finance with record Whilst retention rates have improved across our working capital growth at strong margins whilst maintaining excellent credit quality.
solutions offering in 2016, the asset finance business has typically Lending in Structured Finance is capital-intensive: however, the been more challenging due to increased liquidity driving greater sub-division continues to contribute to the high risk-adjusted returns competition in the hire purchase and leasing market.
The Bank delivered by the Group on a consistent basis.
of Englands quantitative easing QE programme was extended in August 2016, resulting in new, non-deposit-taking lenders entering the markets in which we operate.
Our absolute focus on returns and credit quality has resulted in a marginal reduction in asset finance originations.
The controls breach in the asset finance business see page 49 in the Risk management report for further details led to the acceleration of our plans to restructure the Division, creating a more integrated offering, and further improving the service we deliver to our customers.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 30 Business review continued Business Finance Specialist Sectors Specialist Sectors provides financing to UK SMEs for business-critical Divisional KPIs assets in specialist markets including marine, aviation, healthcare, technology, agriculture and taxis.
We distribute the majority of our Specialist Sectors products directly through our experienced Originations bn and expert teams.
Leveraging the significant lending and sector 2016 0.6 experience of our sales teams, we build and develop relationships 0.6bn with our clients by providing specialist insight and advice.
2015 0.6 0.4 2014 We continued to develop our current product set throughout 2016, recently entering adjacent markets such as marine leisure, technology and agriculture.
Whilst we have achieved loan book growth of 5% across the range of our Specialist Sectors offerings, success in the various markets has been mixed, with challenges Customer loans bn arising primarily from internal market dynamics notably in the 1.1 2016 taxi market.
However, these challenges have been counteracted 1.1bn by sustainable growth in areas such as marine and aviation, as our 2015 0.9 knowledge and relationships continue to deliver growth in both 0.7 2014 originations and the overall loan book.
In late 2016, we recruited Adam Dawson, a very experienced banker, to develop and head up our product offering in Jersey.
As with all our markets, we identified a poorly served market with profit contribution m an opportunity to fulfil the needs of SMEs and consumers in the 39.5 2016 vicinity.
We have started to establish our brand and develop our 39.5m 46.6 2015 relationships, and initiated underwriting in Q4 2016.
34.3 2014 Financials and KPIs The 2016 financial year has been a successful one for the Business Finance Division with the loan book reaching 1.1 billion, a 17% increase from 31 December 2015.
The Division achieved originations Pre-tax RoLA % of 636 million, driven by strong originations in Structured Finance.
This was partly offset by the negative impact on asset finance 2016 3.7 originations of uncertainty surrounding Brexit and the removal 3.7% 5.5 2015 of certain delegated authorities following the identification of the controls breach in this Division.
2014 5.7 Cost of risk for the Division was 137bps.
Excluding the controls breach, this was 31bps a 14bps reduction compared with 2015, which is in line with managements expectations and reflective of the benign credit environment.
In addition, the net interest margin of 6.6% generated on the Business Finance portfolio in 2016 gave more than adequate coverage of the heightened cost of risk, resulting in a positive contribution of 39.5 million.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 31 Outlook Looking further into 2017, we will continue with the roll-out of our RBCs, with current plans to have seven fully operational centres by the end of 2017.
Whilst we remain mindful of the economic climate, we have yet to experience any material deterioration in credit quality following Brexit.
We firmly believe our credit risk appetite remains appropriate through the cycle: however, we continuously monitor this, making minor changes where necessary.
The current forecasts by independent researchers are far less severe than initially thought post Brexit: however, should the economy soften, the diversity of our product offering provides a degree of protection, given the countercyclical nature of our invoice discounting portfolio.
Within Structured Finance, we will continue to leverage the benefits of integrating our block discounting and wholesale teams through the sharing of knowledge and expertise.
Growth in Structured Finance will be primarily driven by continued development and enhancement of our current product set, along with further identification of opportunities.
As we go into 2017, we will continue to identify opportunities in specialist sectors where SMEs are being poorly served as mainstream banks and other lenders continue to deal with internal issues, taking their attention away from customer needs.
This will allow us to achieve strong returns while maintaining our conservative risk appetite, through exceptional service as well as speed and certainty of delivery.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32 Specialist Sectors Business Finance GOOD SENSE IS hELPING bUSINESSES SUCCEED Shawbrook Business Finance has a simple philosophy to be an enabler for our SME customers success by possessing a real understanding of their business and providing the right financial support to allow them to achieve their ambitions.
We achieve this by deploying handpicked local specialists who understand the markets and sectors in which our SME customers operate.
Shawbrook story Our dedication to the healthcare Understanding Baddow Hospital, sector goes beyond the assets a privately run acute hospital, their we finance.
We get to know our business model and what they were customers and their requirements.
It is trying to achieve for their customers important for us to build a partnership allowed our team of specialists based on a sound understanding to support their efforts.
Baddow of the businesses we work with and specialises in day care cases and is help them in achieving their business rapidly growing through the contracts aspirations.
it holds with the NHS and major private medical insurance providers.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 33 Customer story Baddow Hospital has been developed This proved invaluable when we by a team of specialist surgeons and wanted to expand and purchase architects who share the vision of specialist equipment to enhance our establishing a specialist, state-of-theareas of treatment.
They understood art day case hospital which excels in our needs.
They understood our providing outstanding levels of patient existing operation.
They were very care, comfort and convenience.
supportive of our efforts in building a We knew Shawbrook had tremendous new hospital, and they wanted to help insight across the healthcare sector.
us grow and be part of our team.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34 Business review Consumer Activity The Consumer Division has an extensive product range, enabling us to provide unsecured loans for a variety of purposes, in addition to a range of savings products for consumer and business customers.
Consumer lending operates through relationships with major home improvement firms, in-store and online retailers, carefully selected holiday ownership companies, loan broker partners, affinity partners and through our newly launched direct to consumer channel.
Savings products are available directly to personal and business customers.
The Division is managed in three lending sub-divisions: Home Improvement Holiday Ownership HIL HOL, Retail Finance and Personal Loans, alongside the Savings sub-division.
Differentiation We provide tailored finance and Shawbrook has a specialist and deep understanding of the savings products directly to consumer market, both in lending and savings.
Our key differentiator is our commitment to offer fair and transparent products and pricing consumers and through strategic to all customers.
We use efficient systems, The Divisions lending proposition has significant potential to grow combined with human oversight through our Retail Finance and Personal Loan offerings, as well as to underwriting and the latest through entering adjacent markets.
We provide innovative solutions to our partners and customers enabling a seamless process for the technology to give fast and fair credit provision of credit.
Our advanced risk management and scoring techniques combined with our expert judgement allow us to decisions with transparent pricing.
make sensible lending decisions whilst providing the best possible outcome for our partners and customers.
In Savings, we maintain consistently competitive rates across our broad range of simple and straightforward retail deposit offerings, providing exceptional levels of service from our UK call centre.
Pre-tax RoLA walk 2016 Our savings franchise is not an advised service, and has no sales incentives.
Our deposit book is fully administered in-house, which offers the advantage of rapid execution of decisions on pricing 10.6% and service.
2.4% Home Improvement Holiday Ownership HIL HOL The HIL HOL sub-division provides financing for home 2.7% improvement and holiday ownership.
We distribute our products through carefully selected partners, working closely with them to 1.9% understand their needs and key customer demographics to ensure 3.6% alignment with our own target markets.
We continue to develop innovative solutions to enhance end-customers experiences and deliver a seamless and timely service.
2016 Gross Liability Operating Cost of 2016 Yield RoLA Asset Yield Expenses Risk Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 35 The HIL HOL growth strategy was designed to counter the fall in the In addition to the successful launch of our direct-to-consumer solar market following the feed-in tariff changes in early 2016, whilst proposition, we have continued to develop strategic partnerships achieving increased originations year on year.
We have successfully with third parties where our propositions are aligned.
We achieved this by continuing to execute on our proven approach announced in our Q3 2016 Interim Management Statement the and growing our loan book through building new, and enhancing agreement of a partnership with Saga plc and have subsequently existing, relationships.
In the lead-up to the EU referendum, activity launched a bespoke personal loan product to their customers.
In Q4 in the home improvement market was marginally suppressed 2016, we agreed a four-year strategic partnership with RAC to offer as consumers adopted a wait and see approach to investment: personal loans exclusively to their customer base, with our products however, following the referendum activity in this market returned being successfully launched in Q1 2017.
We continue to work closely to expected levels.
with all our strategic partners to develop our relationships and enhance our offerings.
Retail Finance The Retail Finance sub-division provides point-of-sale consumer Savings finance in partnership with recognised retail brands both in-store The Savings sub-division provides a wide range of cash savings and online.
This is a rapidly growing sector and we have a strategy solutions, primarily targeting affluent UK consumers.
The broad built on maintaining and developing strong relationships with SMEs, product range, which includes notice, fixed rate, cash ISAs, and ensuring that their product offerings and target markets are aligned the more recently launched Easy Access products, has driven to our values.
sustainable deposit growth by meeting a wider range of customer savings needs.
It has increased our addressable market as we have, During 2016, we focused on a significant repositioning of the Retail and continue to develop, an active presence in all key UK savings Finance proposition, as we ended partnerships with a number of categories, for example, our growing easy access and shorter term underperforming retailers and brokers in the early part of the year at product sets.
Whilst the business attracts deposits from all customer the same time as investing further in our experienced Retail Finance demographics, a significant proportion of the customer deposit team.
We achieved significant growth during 2016 by developing base continues to be sourced from affluent customers, with a wide our strategic partnerships and bringing new retailers on board.
range of savings needs and high average balances.
Personal Loans Our exceptional levels of customer service and satisfaction The personal loans market in the UK is dominated by extremely combined with a wide product range have translated into deeper low representative teaser rates which are subsidised, in many cases, relationships with our customers, resulting in 20% of new account by a group of customers being offered much higher rates than openings in 2016 being made by existing customers.
Shawbrooks Personal Loans offering is built on our fair and transparent pricing across both our existing and new the principles of fairness and transparency, providing a risk-based customer segments has driven continued strong fixed rate retention pricing solution to consumers who may be unable to obtain the performance.
super-prime loss-leading rates available in the mainstream personal loans market.
Whilst we continue to generate new deposits predominantly through our direct online offering, we have also built a distribution Our personal loans are primarily distributed through affinity capability with three affinity partners, who work alongside us to partnerships and specialist broker partners.
In H2 2016, we market Shawbrooks Savings offerings to our target markets.
Focus launched a direct-to-consumer proposition to further expand our on this area will continue through 2017 as we develop additional distribution capabilities and grow originations in this sector.
Through affinity relationships with selected partners and explore other our website, a consumer can obtain a fair and transparent price potential markets.
quotation which is tailored to them as an individual, and which they receive upon successful completion of a full credit application.
We The transition towards a fully digitised savings business that is have partnered with ClearScore to promote our products directly to supporting the progressive growth of the balance sheet continued our target market see case study on page 38 and we continue to throughout 2016, with 66% of all applications made online 2015: be optimistic about the growing potential of digital intermediaries.
61% and 68% of customers being registered for online servicing as at 31 December 2016.
Further investment into digital capability, including an enhanced online banking and application experience and increased straight-through self-service, will take place during 2017.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 36 Business review continued Consumer Financials and KPIs The Consumer loan book was 0.5 billion at 31 December 2016, up Consumer lending KPIs 39% on 2015 driven by originations of 291 million.
The mix change towards personal loans has offset competitive pressures resulting in a stable gross yield of 10.6%.
The cost of risk increased to 1.9% Originations bn compared with 0.7% in 2015 as we continue to grow our higher 2016 0.3 yielding personal loan portfolio and following some changes to our 0.3bn impairment methodologies to include customer-based probabilities 2015 0.2 of default.
The 1.9% cost of risk for 2016 is in line with managements 0.2 2014 expectations and the average expected through the cycle cost of risk of 2.0% that we articulated to the market in the H1 2016 results presentation.
The Consumer deposit book increased by 24% in 2016 to reach Customer loans bn a balance of 3.9 billion at 31 December 2016, as the Group 0.5 2016 continues to be predominantly retail deposit funded.
The loan to 0.5bn deposit ratio at 31 December 2016 was 102.7%, down marginally 2015 0.3 from 104.2% at 31 December 2015.
The highly liquid market 0.2 2014 following the Bank of Englands base rate reduction in August 2016 and the announcement of the Term Funding Scheme resulted in significant pricing reductions to savings products across the entire deposit market.
Our in-house operational capabilities allowed us to manage our deposit pricing strategy actively, giving us flexibility profit contribution m and agility to control deposit inflows whilst still offering consistently 14.6 2016 competitive rates.
The decline in market interest rates, combined 14.6m 11.8 2015 with Shawbrooks greater product diversity as our Easy Access proposition continues to strengthen, has resulted in a lower than 5.5 2014 anticipated cost of funding, with further tailwinds expected as our higher-costing fixed term deposits mature and we continue to realign our back book in line with the market, whilst maintaining fairness in customer pricing.
Pre-tax RoLA % Outlook 2016 3.6 The consumer credit market has continued its expansion since 2012, 3.6% 4.4 2015 buoyed by low interest rates and record levels of employment.
Despite this, a number of external factors continue to present a 2014 3.1 mixed message and uncertain outlook.
In particular, the continued uncertainty relating to the UKs vote to leave the EU has manifested in fragile consumer confidence.
Levels of personal indebtedness are also at record levels, and affordability may be squeezed by forecast rises in inflation.
The personal loans industry also continues to be subject to intense competition, with teaser rates at all-time low levels and a number of new fintech disruptors entering and working with the market.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 37 Nevertheless, we are well placed to deliver against our strategic plan by continuing to focus on specialist lending segments, building Consumer savings KPIs new strategic affinity partnerships and diversifying our portfolios through strong credit risk management, optimised pricing and market expertise.
Savings customers 000 2016 95 The HIL HOL sub-division is the most mature element of our 95,000 Consumer lending proposition, and our growth going forward will 2015 75 be delivered through maintaining existing business by deepening 55 2014 our supplier relationships and through long-term strategic deals with our key partners.
We will further grow the Retail Finance portfolio by working with our current partners and creating new partnerships in the sectors and Deposit balance bn industries where we currently operate.
In addition, we will look to 3.9 2016 expand our proposition through offering our products to emerging 3.9bn retail markets such as the legal and funeral services sectors.
2015 3.2 2.4 2014 We plan to expand the distribution channels for our Personal Loans offerings and continue to enhance our decision-making capabilities, to enable further growth in our existing segments and adjacent ones.
We will further develop our broker channel by gaining, maintaining and deepening relationships, building on the progress Group cost of funds % we made in 2016.
We will also enhance customer-level pricing, credit 2.2 2016 risk and automated decision-making, thus optimising acceptance 2.2% 2.3 rates and customer journeys.
