BUSINESS REVIEW The strategic report on pages 3 to 25 has been prepared in Principal activity accordance with the requirements of Section 414 A-D of the The Company carries on business as an investment trust and under Companies Act 2006 to help shareholders assess how the Company the period under review its principal activity was investment in has performed and to understand its objectives and policies.
The quoted and unquoted equities of companies incorporated or listed business review section of the strategic report discloses the predominantly in the United Kingdom, with a view to achieving the Companys risks and uncertainties as identified by the Board, the Company's investment objective.
Investment companies are a way key performance indicators used by the Board to measure the for investors to make a single investment that gives a share in a Companys performance, the strategies used to implement the much larger portfolio.
A type of collective investment, they allow Companys objectives, and the Companys environmental, social and investors to spread risk and diversify in investment opportunities ethical policy.
which may not otherwise be easily accessible to them.
More information can be found on the Association of Investment Companies AIC website, via the following link: http: www.
Investment strategy and policy As a result of the progress being made across much of the portfolio, the fund manager has undertaken an analysis of how the shape of the portfolio may change over time, as material success on a stock-specific basis materialises.
This analysis has highlighted a rationale for amending the current investment objective and policy in order to avoid the Portfolio Manager becoming unintentionally constrained in the future.
The existing investment objective and policy and proposed new objective and policy are set out below.
The proposed new investment objective and investment policy are set out in full in Appendix 1 on page 95 of this annual report, with all the amendments to the existing investment objective and investment policy highlighted for ease of reference.
The Companys current investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth through investing in a portfolio consisting predominantly of UK companies, both quoted and unquoted.
The Company will aim to deliver a return in excess of 10 per cent per annum over the longer term.
This is a target only, not a profit forecast, and there can be no assurance that it will be met.
The Company's portfolio is constructed on the basis of an assessment of the fundamental value of individual securities and is not structured on the basis of sector weightings.
The Company's portfolio is diversified across a number of sectors and, while there are no specific limits placed on exposure to any one sector, the Company will at all times invest and manage the portfolio in a manner consistent with spreading investment risk.
The Company's current investment policy is as follows: Asset allocation and risk diversification The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting predominantly of UK companies, both quoted and unquoted.
The Company invests in: i early-growth companies, which are typically quoted although may be unquoted companies ii early-stage companies, which are likely to include both quoted and unquoted companies iii mid and large-capitalisation, listed mature companies 16 16 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 17 17 To acknowledge the Company's evolving structure, the Company's Cash management portfolio is generally expected to reflect the following asset allocation: While it is intended that the Company will be fully invested in normal i between 15 and 30 per cent invested in early-growth companies market conditions, the Company may hold cash on deposit or ii between 40 and 70 per cent invested in early-stage companies invest on a temporary basis in a range of debt securities and cash iii between 15 and 30 per cent invested in midand largeequivalent instruments.
There is no restriction on the amount of capitalisation listed, mature companies cash or cash equivalent instruments that the Company may hold and there may be times when it is appropriate for the Company However, the actual portfolio composition at any one time will reflect to have a significant cash position instead of being fully or near fully the opportunities available to the Portfolio Manager, the invested.
As at the year end the cash position was nil.
performance of the underlying investee companies and the maturity of the portfolio.
The Company's portfolio is expected to consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Company may become a significant shareholder in any of the underlying portfolio companies.
Investment restrictions The Company is currently subject to the following investment restrictions: i investment in unquoted companies will be limited to 60 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment ii investment in non-UK companies will be limited to 30 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment iii the Company's portfolio shall be invested in a minimum of 40 holdings iv the Company shall not invest more than 10 per cent of its net asset value at the time of investment in an investee company, save that the Portfolio Manager may make further investments into an investee company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any investee company of 15 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment v the Company may invest in other investment funds, including listed closed-ended investment funds, to gain investment exposure, but such investment will be unleveraged and other than in relation to investment in money market funds for the purposes of cash management limited, in aggregate, to 10 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment vi the Company shall not have exposure of more than 10 per cent of net asset value, at the time of investment, to any one issuer Borrowing The Company does not intend to deploy long-term gearing but may employ gearing of up to 20 per cent of net asset value, calculated at the time of borrowing, for the purpose of capital flexibility, including for investment purposes.
The Board oversees the level of gearing in the Company, and reviews the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
As at the year end, the Company had 74.6m borrowings 9.7 per cent of the Company's net asset value.
Hedging The Company may use derivatives for the purposes of hedging any currency risk to which the Company may be subject but will not use derivatives for investment purposes.
During the period under review the Company partially hedged its exposure to foreign currency denominated holdings in the portfolio using forward currency contracts.
No other derivatives were employed during the period.
18 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc PROPOSED CHANGE TO THE INVESTMENT POLICY Proposed investment objective with respect to cash deposits, the Company shall not have The Companys investment objective is to achieve long-term capital exposure of more than 10 per cent of net asset value, at the time of growth through investing in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK investment, to any one issuer.
companies, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may also change to become Borrowing more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the The Company may employ gearing of up to 20 per cent of net asset result of changes to the capital value of a non-UK company.
value, calculated at the time of borrowing, for the purpose of capital flexibility, including for investment purposes.
The Board will oversee the level of gearing in the Company, and will review the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
Hedging The Company may use derivatives for the purposes of hedging any Proposed investment policy currency risk to which the Company may be subject but will not Asset allocation and risk diversification use derivatives for investment purposes.
The Company invests in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK companies either incorporated in the UK or traded on a UK Cash management exchange, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, While it is intended that the Company will be fully invested in normal the geographical profile of the portfolio may also change to become market conditions, the Company may hold cash on deposit or invest more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the on a temporary basis in a range of debt securities and cash result of changes to the capital value of a non-UK company.
There is no restriction on the amount of cash or cash equivalent instruments that the Company may hold The Company invests in: and there may be times when it is appropriate for the Company early-stage companies, which are likely to include both quoted to have a significant cash position instead of being fully or near and unquoted companies: and fully invested.
midand large-capitalisation quoted, mature companies.
The actual portfolio composition at any one time will reflect the opportunities available to the Portfolio Manager, the performance of the underlying investee companies and the maturity of the portfolio.
The Companys portfolio will typically consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Companys portfolio is constructed on the basis of an assessment of the fundamental value of individual securities and will not be structured on the basis of sector weightings.
The Companys portfolio is diversified across a number of sectors and, while there are no specific limits placed on exposure to any one sector, the Company will at all times invest and manage the portfolio in a manner consistent with spreading investment risk.
Investment restrictions The Company is subject to the following investment restrictions: investment in unquoted companies will be limited to 80 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment: the Companys portfolio shall be invested in a minimum of 40 holdings: the Company shall not invest more than 10 per cent of its net asset value at the time of initial investment in an investee company save that the Portfolio Manager may make further investments into an investee company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any investee company of 20 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment: the Company may invest in other investment funds, including listed closed-ended investment funds, to gain investment exposure, but such investment will be unleveraged and other than in relation to investment in money market funds for the purposes of cash management limited, in aggregate, to 10 per cent of net asset value at the time of investment: and Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 19 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Unquoted securities valuation policy the Company's investment policy which determines the diversity The Company unquoted securities valuation policy provides an of the Company's portfolio.
The Board sets limits and restrictions objective, consistent and transparent basis for estimating the fair with the aim of reducing risk and maximising returns.
value of unquoted equity securities in accordance with Financial the appointment, amendment or removal of the Company's Reporting Standard FRS 102 as well as International Private Equity third-party service providers.
and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
an effective system of oversight over the Company's risk management and corporate governance.
The unquoted securities valuation policy and the Portfolio Manager's the Board regularly reviews the premium discount to net valuation procedures are subject to review on a regular basis, and asset value.
updated as appropriate, in line with industry best practice.
In addition, the Portfolio Manager works with Duff & Phelps Ltd, an independent In order to effectively undertake its duties the Board may seek third-party valuation firm, to obtain assistance, advice, assurance and expert legal advice.
It also can call upon the advice of the documentation in relation to the ongoing valuation process.
Premium Discount management The Portfolio Manager seeks to mitigate any conflicts of interest in The Board monitors the premium or discount at which the the valuation process by clearly segregating responsibilities in order Company's ordinary shares trade in relation to the Company's to ensure independence in the process.
The Portfolio Manager underlying net asset value and takes action accordingly.
During the considers it impractical to perform an in-depth valuation analysis period under review, the Company's ordinary shares traded for every unquoted investment on a daily basis whether internally predominantly at a premium to its underlying net asset value.
The or with the assistance of an independent third party.
Therefore, an Board is of the view that an increase of the Company's ordinary in-depth valuation of each investment is performed independently shares in issue provides benefits to shareholders, including a by Duff & Phelps i at the time of initial investment, ii with a reduction in the Company's administrative expenses on a per share semi-annual frequency thereafter and iii as required where the basis and increased liquidity in the Company's shares.
The Company Portfolio Manager determines that a 'triggering event' has occurred.
may also seek to address any significant imbalance between the supply of and demand for ordinary shares in the secondary market A triggering event may include any of the following: and to manage any discount to the net asset value at which its a subsequent round of financing whether pro rata or otherwise by ordinary shares may be trading by purchasing its own ordinary the relevant investee company.
shares in the market on an ad hoc basis.
a significant or material milestone achieved by the relevant investee company.
a secondary transaction involving the relevant investee company As a means of controlling the discount at which the shares may, on which sufficient information is available.
from time to time, trade, the Board may seek shareholder a change in the makeup of the management of the relevant authority to buy back ordinary shares.
The Directors have not investee company.
bought back any shares under the Annual General Meeting a material change in the recent financial performance or expected AGM authority granted at the AGM held on 9 May 2016.
At the future financial performance of the relevant investee company.
forthcoming AGM, the Board is seeking to renew this authority.
a material change in the market environment in which the relevant investee company operates: or Board diversity a significant movement in market indices or economic indicators.
The Board consists of six non-executive directors, three of whom are female.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to Once a valuation review has been established, fair value will be consider this during the recruitment process.
The Board is assumed to be representative of fair value each business day until a committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate who valuation change is enacted by Capita Financial Managers Limited is the best fit for the Company regardless of gender or other forms the AIFM.
Once completed, the valuations are submitted to the Portfolio Corporate and operational structure Manager's Pricing Committee for review.
The Pricing Committee Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD comprises representatives from the Portfolio Manager, the AIFM and In accordance with the AIFMD, the Company has appointed Capita Duff & Phelps.
The AIFM is the decision-maker on valuations and Financial Managers Limited to act as its Alternative Investment enacts the price change.
Where the Pricing Committee considers Fund Manager AIFM.
The AIFM has in turn appointed Woodford such an adjustment to be material, the Portfolio Manager will inform Investment Management Ltd to act as its Portfolio Manager, to the Board of the nature and reasons for the adjustment.
The AIFM monitors the Portfolio Manager of the Company and ensures that the Companys assets Business model are valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant The management of the Company's assets and the Company's regulations and guidance.
In addition, the Company has appointed administration has been outsourced to third-party service providers.
The Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the depositary to The Board has oversight of the key elements of the Company's provide custody services to the Company as required by the AIFMD.
strategy, including the following: the Company's level of gearing.
The Company has a maximum limit of 20 per cent of net asset value at the time of borrowing.
20 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Operational and portfolio management The Portfolio Manager considers, amongst other things, the In addition to the above, the Company has outsourced its operations environment, social and human rights, employee and community to the following service providers: implications of the companies within which it invests the Companys Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited has been appointed assets.
The Board is provided with detailed information on each of the to act as the Companys company secretary: Companys underlying holdings on a regular basis.
It has regular Northern Trust Global Services Limited Northern Trust has been meetings with members of the investment management team who appointed to act as the Companys investment accountant provide them with detailed feedback on the affairs of the Companys and administrator: underlying holdings and can request that action is taken to bear Duff & Phelps Limited has been appointed to provide third-party pressure on the companies with which the Portfolio Manager invests valuation assistance in their capacity as a valuation firm to act as on behalf of the Company to ensure the highest standards are the Companys tax adviser: maintained.
The Portfolio Manager aims to exercise its votes at Capita Registrars Limited has been appointed as the Companys the shareholders meetings of the Companys underlying holdings registrar: and in every situation it can.
In addition, the Portfolio Manager meets Winterflood Investment Trusts a division of Winterflood Securities regularly with the management of many of the Companys underlying Limited has been appointed to act as the Companys corporate holdings and encourages high standards with regard to each broker and financial adviser.
companys approach to social, environmental, human rights, community and employee matters.
Environment, social, human rights, community and employee issues The Board has high standards on all issues that concern the environment, social matters, human rights, community and employees.
The Company has no employees and all of its Board members are non-executive.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board has delegated the Companys day-to-day operations and investment decisions to third-party service providers.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 21 22 22 W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c W Wo oo od df fo or rd P d Pa at tiie en nt C t Ca ap piit ta al T l Tr ru us st p t pllc c 23 23
