1 Strategic Report Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their for all the key elements of the Companys strategy and duty to promote the success of the Company during the year business model, including: under review.
Investment Objective, Policy and Benchmark, Structure and objective of the company incorporating the investment and derivative guidelines and Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC is an investment trust and limits, and changes to these: has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its maximum level of gearing and leverage the Company may investment objective is set out on page 5.
In seeking to achieve employ: this objective, the Company employs Frostrow Capital LLP review of performance against the Companys KPIs: Frostrow as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed as its Portfolio Manager, review of the performance and continuing appointment of J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its Depositary and J. P. Morgan service providers: and Clearing Corp. as its Prime Broker and Custodian.
Further maintenance of an effective system of oversight, risk details about their appointments can be found in the Report management and corporate governance.
of the Directors on pages 25 and 26.
The Board has The Investment Objective, Policy, and Benchmark, including determined an investment policy and related guidelines and the related limits and guidelines, are set out on pages 5 and 6, limits, as described on page 5. along with details of the gearing and leverage levels allowed.
The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and regulations including UK company law, UK GAAP, the UK Details of the principal KPIs and further information on the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, principal service providers, their performance and continuing taxation law and the Companys own Articles of Association.
appointment, along with details of the principal risks, and The Company is an investment company within the meaning of how they are managed, follow within this Business Review.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved The Corporate Governance report, on pages 29 to 36, by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the includes a statement of compliance with corporate purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act governance codes and best practice, together with the 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on outline of the internal control and risk management capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that framework within which the Board operates.
approval will not continue to be retained.
Key performance indicators KPI The Board To ensure an attractive share price total return the Board The Board of the Company comprises Sir Martin Smith monitors the following KPIs.
KPI metrics, including a five Chairman, Sarah Bates, Jo Dixon, Dr David Holbrook, Samuel year history, can be seen in the Company Performance D. Isaly, Doug McCutcheon and Humphrey van der Klugt.
All of section on pages 1 and 2. these Directors served throughout the year with the exception of Humphrey van der Klugt and are non-executive independent Net asset value NAV per share total return against the Directors, except for Samuel D. Isaly who is deemed not to be Benchmark: independent due to his role at OrbiMed.
Discount premium of share price to NAV per share: and Further information on the Directors can be found on Ongoing charges ratio.
NAV per share total return against the Benchmark All Directors seek election or re-election by shareholders at The Directors regard the Companys NAV per share total each Annual General Meeting.
return as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
This reflects both net asset Board focus and responsibilities value growth of the Company and dividends paid With the day to day management of the Company outsourced to shareholders.
to service providers the Boards primary focus at each Board meeting is reviewing the investment performance and The Board considers the most important comparator, against associated matters, such as, inter alia, future outlook and which to assess the NAV per share total return performance, strategy, gearing, asset allocation, investor relations, to be the MSCI World Health Care Index measured on a net marketing, and industry issues.
total return, sterling adjusted basis.
As noted on page 5 Frostrow and OrbiMed have flexibility in managing the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 investments and are not limited by the constraints of the Under the terms of the AIFM Agreement Frostrow receives a Benchmark.
As a result, investment decisions may be made periodic fee equal to 0.30% per annum of the Companys that differentiate the Company from the Benchmark and market capitalisation up to 150 million, 0.20% per annum of therefore the Companys performance may also be different the market capitalisation in excess of 150 million and up to to that of the Benchmark.
500 million, and 0.125% per annum of the market capitalisation in excess of 500 million, plus a fixed amount A full description of performance during the year under review equal to 57,500 per annum, and a performance fee as set is contained in the Portfolio Managers Review commencing on out in the Performance Fee section on page 25. page 11 of this Annual Report.
Portfolio Manager Share price discount premium to NAV per share OrbiMed under the terms of its portfolio management The share price discount premium to NAV per share is agreement with the AIFM and the Company provides, inter considered a key indicator of performance as it impacts the alia, the following services: share price total return of shareholders and can provide an the seeking out and evaluating of investment indication of how investors view the Companys performance opportunities: and its Investment Objective.
recommending the manner by which monies should be Ongoing charges ratio invested, disinvested, retained or realised: The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works advising on how rights conferred by the investments hard to maintain a balance between good quality service and should be exercised: costs.
analysing the performance of investments made: and Principal service providers advising the Company in relation to trends, market The principal service providers to the Company are the AIFM, movements and other matters which may affect the Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow, the Portfolio Manager, investment objective and policy of the Company.
OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed, the Prime Broker J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp. and the Depositary, J. P. Morgan OrbiMed receives a base fee of 0.65% of NAV and a Europe Limited.
Details of their key responsibilities follow performance fee of 15% of outperformance against the and further information on their contractual arrangements Benchmark as detailed on page 25. with the Company are included in the Report of the Directors Depositary and Prime Broker commencing on page 25.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys Depositary Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp as its Prime Broker.
Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Depositary, must take Company provides, inter alia, the following services: reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in oversight of the portfolio management function delegated accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment to OrbiMed Capital LLC: Funds Sourcebook, the AIFMD and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Depositary must in the context of this role act investment portfolio administration and valuation: honestly, fairly, professionally, independently and in the risk management services: interests of the Company and its shareholders.
marketing and shareholder services: The Depositary receives a variable fee based on the size of share price discount and premium management: the Company as set out on pages 25 and 26. administrative and secretarial services: J. P. Morgan Europe Limited has discharged certain of its advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance liabilities as Depositary to J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp. Further requirements: details of this arrangement are set out on pages 25 and 26. maintains the Companys accounting records: J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp, as Prime Broker, provides the maintenance of the Companys website: following services under its agreement with the Company: preparation and dispatch of annual and half year reports safekeeping and custody of the Companys investments and monthly Fact Sheets: and and cash: ensuring compliance with applicable legal and regulatory processing of transactions: requirements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 18 1 Strategic Report Business Review continued provision of an overdraft facility.
Assets up to 140% of the Strategic including Shareholder relations and share price value of the outstanding overdraft can be taken as performance.
Such assets may be used by the Prime Broker Further information on the internal control and the risk and such use may include being loaned, sold, management framework can be found below and information rehypothecated or transferred by the Prime Broker: and on the use of financial instruments and their associated foreign exchange services.
risks, including exposures to market risk and counterparty risk can be found in note 16 beginning on page 61.
AIFM and Portfolio Manager evaluation and re-appointment The following section details the risks the Board consider to be The performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager is the most significant to the Company.
reviewed continuously by the Board and the Companys Market risks Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee the By the nature of its activities and Investment Objective, the Committee with a formal evaluation being undertaken each Companys portfolio is exposed to fluctuations in market year.
As part of this process, the Committee monitors the prices from both individual security prices and foreign services provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and exchange rates and due to exposure to the global healthcare receives regular reports and views from them.
The Committee sector, it is expected to have higher volatility than the wider also receives comprehensive performance measurement market.
As such investors should be aware that by investing reports to enable it to determine whether or not the in the Company they are exposing themselves to market performance objectives set by the Board have been met.
The risks and those additional risks specific to the sectors in Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the appointment which the Company invests, such as political interference in of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager in March 2016 with a drug pricing.
In addition, the Company uses leverage both positive recommendation being made to the Board.
through derivatives and gearing the effect of which is to The Board believes the continuing appointment of the AIFM amplify the gains or losses the Company experiences.
and the Portfolio Manager, under the terms described in the To manage these risks the Board and the AIFM have Report of the Directors on pages 25 and 26, is in the interests appointed OrbiMed to manage the investment portfolio within of shareholders as a whole.
In coming to this decision, it took the remit of the investment objective and policy, and imposed into consideration, inter alia, the following: various limits and guidelines, set out on pages 5 and 6. the quality of the service provided and the depth of These limits ensure that the portfolio is diversified, reducing experience of the company management, company the risks associated with individual stocks, and that the secretarial, administrative and marketing team that the maximum exposure through derivatives and an overdraft AIFM allocates to the management of the Company: and facility is limited.
The compliance with those limits and the quality of the service provided and the quality and guidelines is monitored daily by Frostrow and OrbiMed and depth of experience allocated by the Portfolio Manager to reported to the Board monthly.
the management of the portfolio and the long-term In addition OrbiMed reports at each Board meeting on the performance of the portfolio in absolute terms and by reference to the Benchmark.
performance of the Companys portfolio, which encompasses the rationale for stock selection decisions, the make-up of Principal risks the portfolio, potential new holdings and, derivative activity In fulfilling its oversight and risk management and strategy further details on derivatives can be found in responsibilities the Board maintains a framework of key risks note 16 beginning on page 61. which affect the Company and the related internal controls designed to enable the Directors to manage and or mitigate The Company does not currently hedge its currency exposure.
The risks can be categorised under the following Investment management key person risk broad headings: There is a risk that the individuals responsible for managing Investment including leverage risks : the Companys portfolio may leave their employment or may Operational including financial corporate governance, be prevented from undertaking their duties.
accounting, legal, cyber security and regulatory risks : and Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 19 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 The Board manage this risk by: monitoring of counterparties, including reviews of internal control reports and credit ratings, as appropriate: and appointing OrbiMed, who operate a team environment such that the loss of any individual should not impact on by only investing in markets that operate DVP Delivery service levels: Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during receiving reports from OrbiMed at each Board meeting, the settlement process.
such report includes any significant changes in the make-up of the team supporting the Company: Service provider risk meeting the wider team, outside the designated lead The Board is reliant on the systems of the Companys service manager, at OrbiMeds offices and encouraging the providers and as such disruption to, or a failure of, those participation of the wider OrbiMed team in investor systems could lead to a failure to comply with law and updates: and regulations leading to reputational damage and or financial loss to the Company.
delegating to the Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee, responsibility to perform an To manage these risks the Board: annual review of the service received from OrbiMed, receives a monthly compliance report from Frostrow, including, inter alia, the team supporting the lead manager which includes, inter alia, details of compliance with and succession planning.
applicable laws and regulations: Counterparty risk reviews internal control reports, key policies, including In addition to market and foreign currency risks, discussed measures taken to combat cyber security issues, and also above, the Company is exposed to credit risk arising from the disaster recovery procedures of its service providers: use of counterparties.
If a counterparty were to fail, the maintains a risk matrix with details of risks the Company Company could be adversely affected through either delay in is exposed to, the controls relied on to manage those risks settlement or loss of assets.
and the frequency of the controls operation: and The most significant counterparty the Company is exposed to is receives updates on pending changes to the regulatory J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp which is responsible for the and legal environment and progress towards the safekeeping of the Companys assets and provides the overdraft Companys compliance with these.
As part of the arrangements with Shareholder relations and share price performance risk J. P. Morgan Clearing Corp they may take assets, up to 140% of The Company is also exposed to the risk, particularly if the the value of the drawn overdraft, as collateral and have first investment strategy and approach are unsuccessful, that the priority security interest or lien over all of the Companys Company may underperform resulting in the Company assets.
Such assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, becoming unattractive to investors and a widening of the sold, rehypothecated or transferred by J. P. Morgan Clearing share price discount to NAV per share.
Corp, although the Company maintains the economic benefit from the ownership of those assets it does not hold any of the In managing this risk the Board: rights associated with those assets.
The Company is afforded reviews the Companys Investment Objective in relation to protection in accordance with SEC rules and U. S. legislation market, and economic, conditions and the operation of the equal to the value of the assets that have been rehypothecated.
Companys peers: Credit risk is managed by the Board through: discusses at each Board meeting the Companys future development and strategy: reviews of the arrangements with, and services provided by, the Depositary and Prime Broker to ensure that the reviews the shareholder register at each Board meeting: security of the Companys assets is being maintained.
actively seeks to promote the Company to current and Legal opinions are sought, where appropriate, as part of potential investors: and, this review: has implemented a discount control mechanism.
monitoring of the assets taken as collateral further The operation of the discount control mechanism and details can be found in note 16 on page 61 : Company promotional activities have been delegated to reviews of OrbiMeds approved list of counterparties, the Frostrow, who report to the Board at each Board meeting on Companys use of those counterparties and OrbiMeds these activities.
process for monitoring, and adding to, the approved counterparty list: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 20 1 Strategic Report Business Review continued Under the DCM, the Companys shares being offered on the Company promotion stock market, when the discount reaches a level of 6% or The Company has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing more, may be bought back and held as treasury shares See and investor relations services, in the belief that a Glossary on page 69.
Treasury shares can be sold back to well-marketed investment company is more likely to grow the market at a later date at a discount narrower than that at over time, have a more diverse and stable shareholder register which they were bought and no greater than a 5% discount to and will trade at a superior rating to its peers.
the cum income NAV per share.
Frostrow actively promotes the Company in the following ways: Shareholders should note, however, that it remains possible Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary for the share price discount to the NAV per share to be wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: greater than 6% on any one day.
This is due to the fact that Frostrow regularly talks and meets with institutional the share price continues to be influenced by overall supply investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only and demand for the Companys shares in the secondary platform providers to discuss the Companys strategy and to market.
The volatility of the NAV per share in an asset class understand any issues and concerns, covering both such as healthcare is another factor over which the Board investment and corporate governance matters: has no control.
Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow In recent years the Companys successful performance has works to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key generated substantial investor interest.
Whenever there are groups within the investment community, holding annual unsatisfied buying orders for the Companys shares in the investment seminars, overseeing PR output and managing market, the Company is able to issue new shares at a small the Companys website and wider digital offering, including premium to the cum income NAV per share.
This ensures Portfolio Manager videos and social media.
that there is no asset dilution to existing shareholders and Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs stops the market price going to a significant and possibly the Investor Relations function on behalf of the Company and unsustainable premium.
Frostrow produces all key Details of share buy-backs and issuance are set out on corporate documents, distributes monthly Fact Sheets, page 27.
Annual Reports and updates from OrbiMed on portfolio and market developments: and Social, economic and environmental matters Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the The Directors, through the Companys Portfolio Manager, Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow encourage companies in which investments are made to maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and adhere to best practice with regard to corporate governance.
other research and data providers, and conducts periodic In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no investor perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have up-to-date and accurate information on the latest a human rights policy.
The Company recognises that social and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
Discount control mechanism DCM The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors discount premium and consideration is given to ways in consists of seven Directors, five of whom are resident in the which share price performance may be enhanced, including UK, one is resident in the U. S. and one in Canada.
The Board the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share holds the majority of its regular meetings in the United buy-backs, where appropriate.
Kingdom, with one meeting held each year in New York, and The Board implemented the DCM in 2004.
This established a has a policy that travel, as far as possible, is minimal, thereby target level of no more than a 6% share price discount to the minimising the Companys greenhouse gas emissions.
Further details concerning greenhouse gas emissions can be found within the Report of the Directors on page 27.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the Board diversity portfolio when considering the viability of the Company over When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to the next five years and its ability to meet liabilities as they fall appoint individuals on merit.
Diversity is important as it helps due.
In addition, the Board noted that shareholders have an to bring a range of skills and experience to the Board.
A skills opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company every audit was carried out by the Nominations Committee during five years: a resolution regarding the continuance of the the year which concluded that the Board was equipped with Company will next be put to shareholders at the Annual the necessary skills and experience required for the sound General Meeting to be held in 2019. stewardship of the Company and to enable the Directors to hold meaningful debates at its meetings.
There are currently The Directors do not expect there to be any significant five male and two female Directors on the Board.
Full details change in the principal risks that have been identified or the of the skills and experience of the Directors can be found on adequacy of the mitigating controls in place, and do not pages 23 and 24. envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate Long term viability over that period as the Companys assets are liquid, its commitments are limited and the Company intends to The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the continue to operate as an investment trust.
The Directors principal risks facing the Company including those that believe that only a substantial financial crisis affecting the would threaten its business model, future performance, global economy could have an impact on this assessment.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Companys investment objective and policy, in order to operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks five year period.
and uncertainties which have been identified, and the steps Performance and future developments taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as possible, are An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, shown on pages 19 to 20 of this annual report.
and market background during the year, as well as the future The Board believes it is appropriate to assess the Companys outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 viability over a five year period.
This period is also deemed and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 11 to 13. appropriate due to our Portfolio Managers long-term It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain investment horizon and also what we believe to be investors unchanged in the coming year.
horizons, taking account of the Companys current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties as shown on page 19 to 20 of this annual report.
By order of the Board Frostrow Capital LLP Company Secretary 14 June 2016 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 22
