Business review Strategy update Despite the poor trading performance of the Group in 2016, TRG remains a highly cash generative business which benefits from significant scale and a diversified portfolio.
While the Groups performance has suffered due to weakness in our Leisure businesses, it is clear that these performance issues can be addressed and we are confident in our turnaround plans.
I joined TRG as Chief Executive Officer on 19 September 2016.
In recent months we have made good progress in strengthening the team, completing the strategic review of our brands and conducting a comprehensive review of our cost base.
Andy McCue Chief Executive Officer We have a clear plan to turnaround the business which has four key elements: 1.
Re-establish competitiveness of our Leisure brands.
Serve our customers better and more efficiently.
Grow our Pubs and Concessions businesses.
Build a leaner, faster and more focused organisation.
generative We expect 2017 to be a transitional year.
We plan to address the competitiveness of our Leisure businesses head-on, requiring investment in both price and proposition, as well as business.
increased marketing spend to re-engage lapsed customers and attract new ones.
We are focused on a volume-led turnaround which will take time as customers respond to the improvements we are making.
Where initiatives prove successful, we will invest behind them in order to accelerate our progress.
Re-establish competitiveness of our Leisure brands Frankie & Bennys We identified last year the key root causes of our decline: loss of value credentials, poor menu changes and lack of operational discipline which impacted the consistency of our offering.
Initial trials of alternative value options indicate that, while a step in the right direction, simply correcting for past mistakes will be insufficient to recover our market share losses endured since 2013.
Since then we have traded price over volume while competitors have improved their offer and consequently, we have lost customers who now need to be persuaded to revisit us and regain trust in an improved proposition.
04 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Current trading is in line with our expectations.
Our initial responses include: We intend to broaden the appeal of the brand, making it accessible to a wider customer base.
This will involve: re-focusing our efforts on the core customer base of families and those out & about: a widened cuisine extending to, for example, Texan and Californian influences: developing an improved customer proposition, more closely aligned to the requirements and preferences of providing customers with the option for greater these groups: customisation, including of fillings and spice levels: launching a new weekday value menu at 9.95, the lowest better value, delivered via an improved price architecture: price for five years, to be competitive during non-peak times, a menu that is easier to understand and navigate: and whilst improving the choice and quality of offering: reducing unnecessary complexity of dishes, facilitating reinstating some previously popular dishes: quicker service and improved consistency.
re-engineering and testing a new core menu in readiness for launch this month, which will offer our customers We will roll out the changes in a sample of restaurants to learn substantially better value.
This menu is also easier for the and optimise before implementing more widely.
Later in the guest to navigate and less complex in its delivery, enabling year, once the changes are widespread, we will invest in us to improve our consistency: and marketing behind the rejuvenated proposition.
embarking on targeted promotional campaigns, over Coast to Coast specific periods, to ensure we are competitive and delivering Launched in 2011, Coast to Coast sites showed promising a compelling offer to the most value-conscious customer early trading, leading to an acceleration in the opening segments.
However, since 2014 the business has suffered extreme declines in like-for-like Our improvement focus will be on restoring our value sales.
credentials, deepening the distinctiveness of our offer and investing in marketing to attract back lapsed customers.
The brand positioning has become progressively more premium, which has been at odds with the typical customer Chiquito missions when visiting out-of-town locations.
As with our other Chiquitos brand positioning in the market is relatively weak.
Leisure brands, poor price and menu decisions have been Compared to competitors, a narrow reach of potential made, although the extent of the changes within Coast to customers are attracted to the brand.
Customer research Coast have been more pronounced, with a corresponding indicates Mexican cuisine and particularly its association impact on performance.
with spice, can alienate some potential customers.
For the customers that do visit us, their frequency of visit is the lowest We do, however, see an opportunity to re-position the brand of our competitor set, due in part to our value positioning towards a focus on steaks and burgers, both of which are as well as a relatively high proportion of visits being oriented growing market segments and yet remain relatively around infrequent, special occasions such as celebrations.
unpenetrated in our current locations.
Our offer will be substantially more affordable, with a compelling range and Separately Chiquito has, more recently, substantially quality ingredients.
Inevitably this will result in lower gross underperformed the market.
This decline has been driven by margins, which we believe will be offset by increased volume poor menu changes, a lack of value competitiveness, speed of covers.
The more focused offering will also facilitate a of service issues, as well as a softer market due to weaker stronger brand identity and to maximise its potential, we cinema attendances.
expect to invest in marketing alongside some capital expenditure to make clear the proposition has changed.
Taking learnings from recent menu trials, we have made improvements to the offer, having introduced a weekday value We are developing a plan for how this new proposition will be menu offering two courses for 10.95 and three courses for delivered.
In the meantime roll out of further Coast to Coast 14.95, with encouraging early participation rates.
We have sites is suspended until we have clear evidence this new also tested a variety of promotional mechanics as we build proposition is working.
an understanding of the response rates by campaign type, customer segment and versus competitor activity.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 05 Business review continued 2.
Serve our customers better and more efficiently 4.
Build a leaner, faster, more focused organisation The business lacks rigorous, streamlined processes and The business has excess cost driven by complexity and systems that would enable us to deliver the right service inefficiency.
We have undergone a detailed review of the cost standards, with the optimal level of resources, on a consistent base and have identified opportunities to reduce costs by basis.
approximately 10m on an annual run-rate basis, delivered in 2019.
Implementation has begun and the savings we capture We see opportunities to improve our sales forecasting in 2017 and 2018 will be re-invested in price, product and accuracy, to optimise our labour modelling and to deploy marketing to grow the business.
The one-off cost to achieve resources more accurately which, in turn, will increase our these efficiencies is expected to be c. 6m.
sales by ensuring the right service level is available at the right times, while removing costs from those parts of the day where These efficiencies will include streamlining our processes, we operate sub-optimally.
reducing overheads, extracting further purchasing benefits from our scale and reducing the number of people we employ.
We have plans to reduce non-value adding or customer facing This will involve some difficult decisions but we are confident activities throughout the business, some of which are our colleagues will embrace being part of a more efficient dependent on process, systems and supplier changes.
We are also focused on equipping our servers with the training We are effecting a culture change towards a more customer and tools, tailored to each brand, to showcase our proposition focused, insight-led organisation which can operate at pace.
fully, generating higher sales through cross-sell and up-sell.
To that end, we are pleased to have made some important changes to the leadership team: 3.
Grow our Pubs and Concessions businesses Murray McGowan has been appointed Managing Director, Our Pubs business is well positioned with a distinctive offering Leisure and will join us on 5 June 2017.
Since 2015, Murray and defensible locations.
Strong operational execution, has been the Managing Director for Costa Express and prior along with locally sourced produce, has attracted a loyal and to that, worked for Yum!
increasing customer base who rate the offering highly, relative to competitors.
We see opportunities to further increase Lucinda Woods has joined us as Director of Strategy and sales in existing sites by optimising our menus and pricing Business Development and brings analytical and strategic and investing in marketing.
skills from her experience at Paddy Power Betfair, Investec and KPMG.
The Pubs deliver consistently good and growing returns, Debbie Moore has joined us as Group HR Director and with a relatively modest refurbishment capital requirement brings extensive multi-site and large employee company compared to our other brands.
Our Pubs are concentrated experience from Spirit Pub Company, Royal Mail and in the North West, North Wales and the Home Counties, Dixons.
presenting opportunities to organically extend our footprint.
Over the medium-term we expect to increase the rate of Keith Janes has been promoted to Property Director, having openings as we build and convert a bigger pipeline of been at TRG for two years and previously rolled out formats prospective sites.
Our Concessions business operates five different food and We are taking a more disciplined approach to capital beverage formats, across 37 brands, within 12 UK airports.
We have undertaken a comprehensive review of The business has grown sales and profits consistently driven our property pipeline on a site-by-site basis and have refined by new space from contract wins, strong growth in our selection criteria, resulting in a reduction in the number of passengers and continued improvement in sales per head viable prospects.
With our unique capabilities enabling us to consistently deliver high operational standards at high volume and peak-load intensity, along with our format development and partnering skills, we are positioned well for further contract wins in the future.
06 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Overview of the year Concessions 59 units 2016 was a disappointing year.
Turnover was up 3.7%, Our Concessions business had another strong year.
While benefitting from a 53rd week, with like-for-like sales down benefitting from strong passenger growth across our UK 3.9%.
The underperformance was driven by each of our three airport sites, we added to this by successfully driving major Leisure brands, Frankie & Bennys, Chiquito and Coast incremental covers and spend per head.
We opened one site to Coast.
Our Pubs and Concessions businesses performed during the year, a new pub in Gatwick North terminal which well, benefiting from good operational execution.
has its own gin distillery and closed two due to airport configuration changes.
Brands Frankie & Bennys 258 units Current trading and outlook The brand had a difficult trading year, with declining like-for-like Current trading is in line with our expectations.
sales and operating margins, substantially underperforming the market.
Operational leadership was changed in June and 2017 will be a transitional year for the business, given the following the strategic review of the brands at the end of significant change underway and the substantial investment in the summer, a series of price and menu trials were launched price and marketing.
We anticipate momentum improving to test and learn the most effective way to arrest trading towards the end of the year as our initiatives start to take performance.
10 sites were opened and 15 sites closed effect.
We expect to open between 16 and 20 units in 2017 with Chiquito 79 units associated capital expenditure of between 16m and 20m.
Chiquito traded poorly in 2016, with declining like-for-like sales Refurbishment and maintenance capital expenditure will range and operating margins.
While a drop in cinema attendances from 20m to 25m.
contributed to some of this decline, the main drivers were poor proposition changes and operational issues affecting speed of service.
Five sites were opened and 12 sites closed Andy McCue during the year.
Chief Executive Officer Coast to Coast 21 units 8 March 2017 Coast to Coast had a difficult year.
The brand is relatively young and while lower sales are to be expected from new units after their opening year, sales have continued to decline thereafter.
A radical change to the menu in January was received poorly and progressive price changes in recent years have also contributed to significant declines in like-forlike sales.
Two sites were opened and two sites closed during the year.
Pub restaurants 57 units Our Pub business traded well during the year, growing like-for-like sales and profits.
The strong and stable team continued to develop the business, improving the menus and successfully trialling new booking technology to accommodate more covers.
Four sites were opened and one closed during the year.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 07
