BUSINESS REVIEW This Business Review providesan overview of the performance of our sectors during 2016.
UK shopping centres 2016 was a busy year for UK shopping centres with the Grand Central acquisition, the opening of two new centres and another set of strong operating results from our existing portfolio.
We have also seen good performance in the second half of the year, with retailers keen to take space in our prime centres.
Table 9 Operational summary Like-for-like Leasing Leasing vs Like-for-like Retail sales Footfall NRI growth Occupancy activity ERV ERV growth growth growth Key metrics % % m % % % % 31 December 2016 2.4 97.8 9.0 6 1.6 1.1 0.5 31 December 2015 2.1 98.3 11.7 4 2.8 1.3 1.1 Note: Figures presented on a proportionally consolidated basis.
Sector and portfolio overview Portfolio highlights Net rental income Prime shopping centres are differentiated from Net rental income totalled 148.4 million in 2016, secondary or tertiary centres by their scale, and on a like-for-like basis increased by 2.4%, Like-for-like net rental catchment size and superior brand mix.
They compared with a 2.1% increase in 2015.
The growth income growth include large anchor tenants, flagship stores for in 2016 is driven by rent review settlements, international brands and offer shoppers catering income from new lettings and increased car park and entertainment as well as retail.
Four of our centres achieved annual like- 2.4% centressupport retailers multichannel strategies for-like NRI growth of more than 5% with the best as they offer high sales, footfall and dwell times in performing centres being Bullring, Birmingham 2015: 2.1% an attractive, well-managed environment which and Union Square, Aberdeen whichbenefited from provides amixture of leading brands, food, leisure recent lettings and rent review uplifts.
Online sales penetration Leasing activity Leasing, occupancy and ERVs continues to grow and accounted for 15% of total Tenant demand for space at our centres remained retail spend as at December 2016 according to strong, with 141 leases signed representing the ONS.
Leases are generally long-term, at least 9.0m 2 9.0 million of annual rental income and 48,300m 10 years duration, with upward-only market rent of space.
The reduction in activity compared with reviews at five year intervals.
2015: 11.7m 2015 was due to the timing of lease renewals and UK consumer spending grew by 3.8% in the final expiries at a number of centres.
For principal quarter of 2016 Source: Barclaycard.
Currency Acquired leases, rents secured were 6% above December devaluation has had a favourable impact on 2015 ERVs and 6% above the previous passing Grand Central, tourist spending, but is expected to increase rent.
Despite the continued tenant demand, ERV inflation in 2017 which may adversely impact real Birmingham growth slowed to 1.6% compared with 2.8% in spending power and the input costs for retailers.
2015, although growth in the second half of 2016of Nevertheless, retailers enjoyedgood Christmas Opened 1.1% was higher than the 0.5% growth achieved in trading andUK consumer confidence has the first six months.
Occupancy levels remained remained resilient.
Victoria Gate, Leeds high at 97.8%, compared with 98.3% in December and Westquay 2015.
The decrease was principally due to Victoria Investment volumes in 2016 totalled 2.7 billion Watermark, Gate, Leeds which opened in October and where which was approximately 40% lower than in 2015, occupancy was 90.5% at the year end.
with the only prime centres traded being Grand Southampton both Central, Birmingham and Merry Hill, Dudley.
BREEAM Excellent We have applied our Product Experience However, demand for prime assets continues, schemes Framework and have delivered a number of key with investment yields broadly unchanged during leasing deals with international brands, luxury 2016, although secondary shopping centres have operators and new catering offers to enhance our suffered outward yield shift.
Highlights include: We have ownership stakes in ten of the top 50 UK Five new restaurants at Cabot Circus, Bristol shopping centres Source: PMA.
We have over including Cte, Brasserie Blanc and the UKs 2,000 tenants acrossour portfolioand 14% of our first LOsteria centres are let to catering and leisure brands, an Also at Cabot Circus, the first COS store increase ofa third over the last five years.
in the south west and Monkis first store outside London At Silverburn, Glasgow, Smiggle and Tortilla opened their first Scottish stores 22 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW At Bullring, LinkStreet which joins the centre to Grand Central In December 2016, we completed the sale of 50% of the scheme was refurbished and remodelled to appeal to contemporary and to CPPIB, one of the existing joint venture partners in Bullring, pop-up style retailers.
Lettings were completed with new niche for 175 million.
The transaction had been contracted at the brands including: Made.
com: Religion Clothing: and Cereal time of the acquisition, but was delayed due to a review by the Killer Caf Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
We fully cooperated th with the investigation and received clearance from the CMA in Brent Cross, London celebrated its 40 anniversary by July, allowing CPPIB to obtain EU merger clearance and complete welcoming three international brands: Urban Decay: Tesla the transaction.
Motors: and Smiggle We recently opened two new centres: Victoria Gate, Leeds In October we announced plans to upgrade the Riverside at The in October: and Westquay Watermark, Southampton in Oracle, Reading.
The project will cost 2.9 million Hammersons 2 December.
Victoria Gate is adjacent to Hammersons existing share and be anchored by a new 167m glass-fronted pavilion let centre, Victoria Quarter.
The combined retail offer, has to Comptoir Libanais.
The scheme will also create a large public 2 been branded Victoria Leeds and provides 56,300m, of events space and enhanced public realm.
high-end stores and restaurants with over 115 brands.
The Lease expiries and rent reviews 2 st 37,300m development provides Leeds with a 21 century retail The portfolio offers a robust income stream, with a weighted destination and includes a flagship John Lewis store, a casino, a average unexpired lease term, including tenant breaks, of seven modern take on Victorian arcades with more than 30 shops and years, and opportunities for rental growth.
Leases subject restaurants and an 800-space multi-storey car park.
Key brands to rent reviews, break clauses or expiries offer the prospect include Anthropologie, Aspinal of London, D&D London, Gant, to secure additional rental income.
Over the three years to Hackett, Le Pain Quotidien, Nespresso, Russell & Bromley and 31 December 2019, these leases would provide additional annual Tommy Hilfiger and the scheme has introduced 17 new brands to rental income of 8.0 million, or 6%, if renewed, or if reviews are Leeds and 11 to our UK portfolio.
Four units remain to be let, which settled at current ERVs.
will provide the opportunity to deliver ERV growth and finalisethe exciting tenant mix.
At 31 December 2016, nine units were let to tenants in administration, equating to just 0.3% of the Groups total Westquay Watermark, is the UKs largest dedicated restaurant 2 passing rents.
and leisure complex at 17,200m and was 95% let on opening.
The scheme has over 20 restaurants, cafs and bars, a Hollywood Sales, footfall and occupancy cost Bowl and is anchored by ahighly anticipated Showcase Cinema Despite the heightened level of macro-economic uncertainty in fide Lux.
For a number of restaurateurs this is their first move the UK, particularly associated with the EU referendum decision, outside London andtenants include Bills, Cabana, Cau, Franco consumers remained resilient.
Footfall across our portfolio was Manca, KuPP, Thaikhun, The Real Greek and Wahaca.
However this was ahead of the national scheme was sold to GIC, Hammersons joint venture partner at index which fell by 1.9% during the year.
the adjacent Westquay shopping centre, in December 2016 for 47 million.
The development further confirms Westquay as the Retailer sales were also disappointing, with sales, calculated on a leading retail, dining and leisure destination on the south coast.
same-centre basis, 1.1% lower than in 2015.
As reported at the half year, Union Square has been adversely affected by the weak oil price.
Excluding this centre, sales across the portfolio decreased by 0.3%, with the strongest performances at Silverburn and The Oracle.
The occupational cost ratio, calculated as total occupancy cost as a percentage of sales, increased from 19.2% at the beginning of the year to 20.1% at 31 December 2016 due to changes in occupancy cost and the tenant mix across the portfolio.
Disposals, acquisitions and completed developments In January 2016, we completed the sale of Monument Mall, Newcastle for 75 million.
Following its acquisition in 2011, we 2 Cabot Circus, Bristol redeveloped the 9,500m centre in 2013, and the sale crystallised a 24 million profit on cost.
Positive places In February 2016, we acquired Grand Central for 350 million.
2 The 38,400m shopping centre in Birmingham is anchored by We installed energy efficient air curtains at Brent Cross which have 2 a 23,200m John Lewis and sits above New Street Station, the delivered both gas and electricity savings, whilst improving the redeveloped major railway hub.
The centre includes 40 premium ambient temperature of the centre.
The new air curtains provide stores including Kiehls, LOccitane en Provence and MAC and also a seal at the entrance that keeps cool air in during the summer contains 20 casual dining brands including Paul, Pho and Tortilla.
and out during the winter.
Being unheated, the curtains use little electricity.
COM 23 Business review continued UK retail parks The retail parks occupational market remains strong, with healthy retailer demand for space at the best locations.
Whilst the investment market has been disappointing during 2016, our modern retail parks portfolio is well placed to outperform in 2017.
Table 10 Operational summary Like-for-like Leasing Leasing vs Like-for-like Footfall NRI growth Occupancy activity ERV ERV growth growth Key metrics % % m % % % 31 December 2016 2.4 98.6 4.9 4 0.2 2.2 31 December 2015 2.6 98.4 8.3 4 1.3 n a Note: Figures presented on a proportionally consolidated basis.
Sector and portfolio overview Portfolio highlights Net rental income Retail parks are largely situated in out-of-town Net rental income totalled 79.6 million and on locations with units being generally larger and a like-for-like basis increased by 2.4% in 2016, Like-for-like net rental rents lower than in shopping centres.
The growth in 2016 income growth located parks are easily accessible by car and offer being due to an increase in surrender premiums free parking.
The market is split into a number of received associated with pro-active tenant rotation sub-segments, and we have chosen to operate in a at parks including Ravenhead Retail Park, St Helens 2.4% selection of these: shopping parks: hybrid parks: and Imperial Retail Park, Bristol.
The portfolio also and key homeware parks, where occupational suffered from a small number of administrations, 2015: 2.6% demand is strongest.
including Brantano, in the first half of the year.
The occupational market remains strong, with Leasing, occupancy and ERVs Occupancy homeware and furnishing retailers seeking space.
Across the portfolio we signed 36 leases representing Retailers with expansion plans includeDunelm, 2 4.9 million of annual rental income and 24,100m Oak Furniture Land, ScS, Tapiand Wren Kitchens.
Occupancy levels remained high during the 98.6% Also, Bunnings, the Australian hardware chain, year and were 98.6% at 31 December 2016, compared has opened its first UK store in St. Albans and with 98.4% at the beginning of the year.
This high 2015: 98.4% is investing 500 million to create a network of occupancy has resulted in alower level of year-onstores across the UK.
For principal leases, rents Disposals were contracted at 4% above December 2015 ERVs Fashion retailers are also taking new stores on and 28% above the previous passing rent.
retail parks as they offer a cost-effective way to Thurrock Shopping fill gaps in their store footprint between large ERV growth was 0.2% in 2016, compared with Park, Essex: shopping centres and town centres.
Whilst occupier demand for space Manor Walks and is leading to improved tenant fit-outs, greater in the right location continues, particularly from Westmorland, interaction with retailers multichannel strategies homeware retailers, high occupancy is limiting Cramlington to support click & collect sales and also a wider opportunities to demonstrate ERV growth across food and beverage offer.
Key leasing transactions during 2016 included: Consistent with theUK shopping centres investment market, transaction volumes in 2016 New leases with fashion retailers such as Fat were approximately one-third lower than the prior Face, H&M, New Look and River Island as year at 2.5 billion.
Sellers have outnumbered well as homeware retailers including DFS, buyers during the year, particularly in the second HomeSense, Sofology and Tapi half of 2016 when a number of open-ended New drive-through concepts for Costa and funds sought to sell assetsto generate liquidity Starbucks at Imperial Retail Park, Bristol and following the EU referendum decision.
This Central Retail Park, Falkirk situation has forced investment yields to increase by approximately 100bp during the year, although Four leases at Elliotts Field, Rugby securing there have been signs of stability returning to the 1.2 million of new income at an average of 4% market at the beginning of 2017. above the December 2015 ERV We are one of the largest direct owners of retail We continue to target tenants which will enhance parks in the UK and, at 31 December 2016, the retail offer at individual parks and grow our portfolio consisted of 18 convenient retail income and have a number of tenant engineering 2 parks, which provide a total of 400,000m with opportunities planned for 2017.
24 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW Disposals and developments As part of the Groups 500 million disposal programme announced to part fund the Irish portfolio acquisition in September 2015, we sold a number of retail parks in 2016, raising total proceeds of 217 million.
Thurrock Shopping Park, Essex was sold in June for 93 million, which was 10 million below its December 2015 valuation but significantly above the acquisition cost of 64 million in 2012.
We also completed the sales ofa solus property in Folkestone for 7 million in July, Manor Walks, Cramlington for 78 million in Augustand Westmorland Retail Park, Cramlington in November for 36 million.
We are currently on-site with three significant development schemes in Didcot, Rugby and Swansea and further details are in the Development section of this Business Review on page 30.
In addition, we are reconfiguring the former Homebase unit at Fife Central Retail Park, Kirkcaldy with works started in December 2016.
Four new units are to be constructed with three already let 2 to Sofology, Wren Kitchens and DW Sports.
The 4,300m project will be completed in June 2017 with a total development cost of 10 million.
We continue to advance other smaller-scale development projects across our portfolio as these deliver strong financial returns and enable us to enhance the appearance and tenant mix of our portfolio.
Telford Forge Shopping Park, Telford Lease expiries and rent reviews Our portfolio benefits from a secure income stream, and at 31 December 2016 had a weighted average unexpired lease term of eight years, including tenant break options.
Leases subject to rent reviews, break clauses or approaching their lease expiry date, offer the opportunity to secure additional income.
Over the three years to 31 December 2019, these leases would provide additional annual rental income of 3.0 million, or 4.5%, if renewedor if reviews are settled at current market rents.
At 31 December 2016, there were just two tenants in administration representing 0.2 million of income, both of which continue to trade.
Customer insight and footfall We have begun to collectfootfalldata across our portfolio in order to enhance our customer insight.
For the year to 31 December 2016, visitor numbers increased by 2.2%, 290 basis points ahead of the Elliotts Field Shopping Park, Rugby Springboard Retail Parks index of -0.7%.
Also during 2016, we completed the second phase of our in-depth customer surveys to better understand consumer opinions about Positive places our parks and existing or prospective tenants.
We found that customer satisfaction has improved by 3% across our portfolio, Our collaboration with Costa, under which we built a Costa Eco-pod dwell times and the average number of shops and restaurants at Wrekin Retail Park, Telford in 2015, has been extended.
The visited have both increased by 8% and catering visits have operational performance of the Eco-pod exceeded expectations increased by 7%.
and we are in the process of delivering a second Costa Eco-pod This feedback from our shoppers has enabled us to improve our at our Parc Tawe development in Swansea.
The success of this customer services provision at a number of parks, an example initiative has also triggered work on designing a zero-carbon retail being the installation of Amazon lockers at Elliotts Field Shopping park at the second phase of development at Elliotts Field, Rugby.
COM 25 Business review continued France During 2016we have continued to attract new tenants, enhanced the tenant mix across ourportfolio and delivered strong net rental income growth.
The investment market has also strengthened for prime retail destinations whichhas led to an increase in the portfolios value.
Table 11 Operational summary Like-for-like Leasing Leasing vs Like-for-like Retail sales Footfall NRI growth Occupancy activity ERV ERV growth growth growth Key metrics % % m % % % % 31 December 2016 2.2 96.5 9.0 5 2.2 3.1 2.8 31 December 2015 2.5 96.9 7.2 2 nil 0.6 0.6 Note: Figures presented on a proportionally consolidated basis.
Sector and portfolio overview Portfolio highlights Net rental income Prime shopping centres in France have similar Net rental income totalled 89.3 million in 2016 characteristics to those in the UK and Ireland.
and on a like-for-like basis increased by 2.2%, Like-for-like net rental Online retailing is not as advanced in France compared to 2.5% in 2015.
Les Terrasses du Port, income growth compared with the UK, although it is growing Marseille was the strongest performing centre, rapidly and retailers are beginning to focus on with increased gross rental income and reduced their multichannel strategies in a similar way to year-on-year operating costs, as the centre begins 2.2% those operating in the UK.
to mature following its opening in 2014.
As with our UK shopping centres, we have been focusing French leases tend to be shorter than in the UK, 2015: 2.5% on increasing non-rental income and in 2016 often of nine years duration, with three-year break this revenue stream increased to 5.4 million, clauses, although in practice these are seldom Retail sales growth compared to 4.7 million in 2015. exercised.
This situation enables landlords like Hammerson to actively manage tenant mix to Leasing, occupancy and ERVs enhance the brand offer.
The retail environment Our retenanting strategy has continued during 3.1% has been subdued during 2016 associated with the 2016 and we signed 117 leases across the portfolio, ongoing terrorist threat, particularly in Paris, and representing 9.0 million of annual rental income 2015: 0.6% unsupportive wider macro-economic conditions, 2 and 35,500m of space.
For principal leases, the such as high unemployment levels and low GDP new income was 5% above December 2015 growth.
The wider shopping centre market has Disposal ERVs but 5% below the previous passing rent.
seen sales and footfall reduce.
The variance to previous passing rent was due Villebon 2, Paris toa number of leases signed at the beginning Investment markets were strong in France, of the year at Villebon 2, Paris, which we sold although the total retail investment activity of in April, andthe reletting of the former H&M 4.4 billion was 1.2 billion lower than 2015 and unit at Placedes Halles, Strasbourg to Darty and of this approximately 40% of sales were to foreign New Look.
These tenants relocated within the investors.
Due to a lack of assets on the market, centre and enabled a coordinated retenanting and the effect of quantitative easing, the strong programme, including an upsized Zara, and helped investor demand acted to reduce yields to around improve the tenant mix and footfall on the first 4% for prime, successful shopping centres.
Excluding these two factors, the figure would At 31 December 2016, our French portfolio have been12% above the previous passing rent.
comprised 10 prime shopping centres, with five We signed leases with a number of international located in or around Paris, including Italie Deux brands, including brands new to the French and Les Trois Fontaines.
Our other major centres portfolio: MAC at Les Trois Fontaines: Bialetti at include Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille and Place Nicetoile and Espace Saint-Quentin, and Armani des Halles, Strasbourg.
The three largest centres: Exchange and Coach, its first at a French shopping Les Terrasses du Port, Italie Deuxand Les Trois centre, at Les Terrasses du Port.
Other key leasing Fontaines account for two-thirds of the value deals during the year were: of the portfolio.
There are over 1,000 tenants across the portfolio, which attract almost Kusmi Tea and Nyx at Italie Deux 100 million visits each year.
Veritas and Rituals at Les Terrasses du Port KOTON at OParinor, its first store in France ID Kids and Parfois at Place des Halles 26 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW Consistent with the increase in sales, the occupational cost ratio decreased during 2016 from 14.0% to 13.7% at 31 December 2016.
Lease expiries and rent reviews Most of our French leases are subject to annual indexation, which will be 0.1% in 2017.
Across our portfolio the average unexpired lease term is three years, or six years excluding tenant break options.
The portfolio offers opportunities for rental growth with an average reversion of 7%.
Leases expiring, or subject to tenants break clauses, over the three years to 31 December 2019 would provide additional annual rental income of 2.8 million, or 11.2%, if renewed at current market rents.
Disposals and developments In April 2016, we completed the sale of Villebon 2 for 157 million 124 million.
Along with the disposals of the UK retail parks explained on page 25, this was part of the 500 million disposal programme to part-fund the Irish loan portfolio acquisition.
In line with the Groups strategy we are progressing extension opportunities and other smaller-scale asset management initiatives at our three major shopping centres, which would significantly enhance these schemes and increase their catchment.
Further design work and leasing discussions are required before these projects can be commenced, but they offer exciting opportunities to strengthen our portfolio and deliver attractive financial returns.
Further details are provided on page 31 and on Les Trois Fontaines, Cergy-Pontoise page 187.
In May, the new Apple store at Les Terrasses du Port opened in a striking glass unit on the terrace overlooking the Mediterranean Sea.
This is the first Apple store in our French portfolio and welcomed over 7,000 visitors on its opening day and helped increase footfall in the centre by 24% during 2016.
Occupancy of96.5% was marginally lower than in 2015, principally due to vacancies at Place des Halles associated with the retenanting scheme and Jeu fide Paume, Beauvais, which has performed below expectations since opening in late 2015.
Like-for-like ERVs fell by 2.2% in 2016, due to Jeu fide Paume, where ERVs have been rebased to reflect trading performance.
Excluding Jeu fide Paume, ERV growth remains challenging and on the remainder of the portfolio like-for-like ERVs increased by 0.2%, compared with no change in the prior year.
At 31 December 2016 there were 29 units in administration, a Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille decrease of 20 during the year.
These tenants all continue to trade, represent only 0.5% of the Groups passing rent and provide opportunities to enhance the tenant mix.
Positive places Sales, footfall and occupancy cost At Italie Deux, Paris, our sustainability team established a Over the course of 2016, retail sales increased by 3.1%, calculated dedicated pop-up store, in the main mall area, to showcase the on a same-centre basis, significantly higher than the CNCC index work of new designers.
15 people, selected by Paris Initiative which fell by 0.1%.
Footfall at our centres grew by 2.8%, and was Entreprise, were able to use the pop-up store for up to two weeks, also above the CNCC index of -1.2%.
The sales improvement came to sell their products or services.
This initiative was a fantastic despite our strong presence in the Paris region which has been opportunity for new entrepreneurs to test their offer in a low adversely impacted by the terrorist threat.
The growth has been risk, supportive environment, accessing thousands of potential achieved by our leasing strategy with new tenants boosting sales customers.
Initiative Entreprise is part of Initiative France which and a strong performance from Les Terrasses du Port, which has we have supported since 2011. continued to grow since it opened in May 2014.
COM 27 Business review continued Ireland We are delighted to have secured the vast majority of the Dublin property assets during 2016and have already completed a number of the asset management initiatives we anticipated at the time of the loan acquisition.
Dundrum Town Centre is Irelands pre-eminent shopping and leisure destination and offers significant income growth opportunities.
Table 12 Operational summary Leasing ERV Occupancy activity growth Key metrics % m % 31 December 2016 99.5 0.8 9.0 Note: Figures presented on a proportionally consolidated basis and represent performance post property conversion only.
We also wholly own the Dublin Sector and portfolio overview Portfolio highlights Central development site and land adjoining Dublin accounts for over 70% of Irelands the Swords Pavilions shopping centre in north total retail expenditure, 50% of national GDP Secured ownership Dublin.
In December 2016, we secured a 50% and supports retail demand due to its urban co-ownership with Irish Life, of the Ilac Centre area population of 1.3 million residents and Dundrum Town located on Henry Street, one of Dublins busiest significant tourist traffic 9.6 million visitors in Centre and Dublin retail thoroughfares.
Irelands prime retail offer is concentrated Central in July.
in the centre of Dublin around Grafton Street We are working towards securing the 50% Ilac Centre in and Henry Street, as well as a number of prime co-ownership with IPUT and Irish Life of December shopping centres along the M50 motorway on Pavilionsshopping centre in Swords in north the outskirts of Dublin.
The property market and Dublin and expect this final loan conversion to ERV growth wider economy continues to experience strong complete by summer2017.
growth, although prime retail rents remain Our total portfolio of Dublin assets will comfortably below their peak levels of 2006 7.
2 encompass 220,000m of high-quality shopping A number of new retailers have recently entered 9.0% centre space, with over 300 tenants and annual the Irish market, including COS, Victorias Secret footfall of nearly 50 million.
It also provides and & Other Stories: there are also numerous Occupancy 27 acres of development land.
Our share of the other international retailers and food and beverage total contracted rent for the portfolio will be operators seeking accommodation in Dublin.
The macro-economy has continued to perform 99.5% In addition to the centre-based staff who well with GDP growth of 4% expected in 2016, transferred to the Group when we secured again making Ireland the fastest-growing economy ownership of Dundrum, we opened a new office within the EU.
Growing employment, driven in Dublin and we have recruited a team of 10, by inward foreign investment, remains a key with four individuals joining from the previous driver of economic productivity.
This growth Dundrum asset manager, Chartered Land.
We will has underpinned theIrish property investment continue to integrate the assets into our existing market that remains strong.
In 2016, shopping UK operating structure to maximise efficiencies centre investment volume was 2.0 billion, and deliver our asset management strategy.
although this was skewed by a small number of large transactions including Blanchardstown and Net rental income Liffey Valley shopping centres which were both Net rental income totalled 14.0 million in sold to international investors.
2016, with 1.5 million generated from Dublin Our portfolio has been secured through a joint Central and the other development sites, with the acquisition of a loan portfolio from the National remainderfrom Dundrum.
As ownership of the Asset Management Agency NAMA in October property portfolio was secured during the year, the 2015, and the subsequent consensual agreement net rental income only relates to the second half to acquire the secured property assets from the of 2016, prior to which the Group received interest borrowers during 2016.
At 31 December 2016, income from the loan portfolio.
During 2016, 10 the Group owned Dundrum Town Centre rent reviews were settled, of which half were after Dundrum, Irelands pre-eminent shopping and the property ownership was transferred.
These leisure destination in a 50:50 joint venture with settlements were with tenants including Aldo, Allianz, having acquired ownership of the property Boots, BT2, Clarks, Coast and Dune.
In total these 28 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW Lease expiries and rent reviews At 31 December 2016, the portfolio offered the Groups longest weighted unexpired lease term of 12 years, including tenant break options, as well as significant opportunities for rental growth.
The portfolio was 8.3% reversionary and leases subject to rent reviews, break clauses or expiries offer the prospect of securing additional rental income.
Over the three years to 31 December 2019, these leases would provide additional annual rental income of 2.5 million, or 10.4%, if renewed, or reviews are settled, at current ERVs.
This time period falls short of the most significant batch of rent reviews in 2020, which, based on current ERVs, would deliver a rental uplift of 1.9 million.
In addition to rent review and lease renewal uplifts, we have identified a number of tenant engineering opportunities to both enhance the tenant mix and generate increased rental income and ERV.
At 31 December 2016, there were no units let to tenants in examinership.
Sales and footfall Overall consumer sentiment has recovered strongly in January 2017 following some uncertainty in the latter half of 2016 and confidence levels, as measured by ESRI, are at their highest level in seven years and national retail sales grew by3.4% in 2016.
As part of our integration activities we are upgrading the IT infrastructure at Dundrum to improve the footfall and sales Ilac Centre, Dublin data collection processes as well as introducing the Plus app in 2017.
This will bring the centre in linewiththe Hammerson reviews delivered annual rental uplifts of 8%.
In January 2017, we standard and provide new insight into the behaviours of our have settled a further 21 reviews achieving rent uplifts of 7% on Dublin shoppers.
5.4 million Hammersons share of passing rent.
Future developments Non-rental income from car parks and the sale of advertising and The portfolio contains a number of future development merchandising opportunities is a significant source of income opportunities at the Dundrum estate, Dublin Central and Swords growth and has generated 2.3 million since we secured ownership Pavilions.
Further details of these potential schemes are on of the properties.
In August, the car park tariffs at Dundrum were page 187. increased by 1, however remain at a sizeable discount to parking in the city centre.
The tariff change has resulted in a significant In addition, the redevelopment of Moore Mall South at the Ilac increase in car park revenue.
Centre commenced in January 2017 and is due for completion in May.
The project involves the refurbishment of the mall areaand Leasing, occupancy and ERVs the reconfiguration of 10 units into five larger flagship stores.
Four Occupancy levels are high at99.5% at 31 December 2016.
Tenant of the new units have already been pre-let representing 78% of the demand for space is strong, although the high occupancy levels target income.
are currently limiting the fulfilment of all of the demand.
We have a clear leasing strategy to deliver rental growth and enhance the FaulknerBrowns has been appointed as the masterplan architect tenant mix and overall experience at our new centres, and during for the Dundrum estate and work on the scheme design the second half of the year wesigned six leases representing has commenced.
2 0.8 million of annual rental income and 3,300m of space.
Key leasing transactions included: Ecco: Five Guys: Gamestop: and Oaxaca, a Mexican restaurant.
Positive places In November 2016, the refurbishment of Dundrums food court Since we took ownership of Dundrum Town Centre in July wehave was completed.
The enhanced offering includes brands such supported the on-site team to deliver a 55% year-on-year increase as: Chopped: Costa: Kanoodle: and Poulet Bonne Femme and in mixed dry recycling, an increase of over 70 tonnes.
No waste is broadens the catering offer at the centre.
sent to landfill and waste to energy is being managed down with all Also at Dundrum, ERVs grew by 9% in the second half of 2016. food waste now being composted.
COM 29 Business review continued Developments We are proud of the two new shopping centre developments in Leeds and Southampton which opened in 2016.
They align perfectly with our strategy of creating differentiated destinations and add to the attraction of existing assets in both major cities.
On-site developments Table 13 Current Estimated cost Estimated 2 3 4 5 Lettable area Expected value to complete annual income Let 1 2 Scheme m completion m m m % Parc Tawe, Swansea 21,200 Q4 2017 n a 14 2 53 Elliotts Field Shopping Park Phase 2, Rugby 7,900 Q4 2017 10 23 3 44 Orchard Centre, Didcot 8,700 Q1 2018 11 31 3 39 Total 37,800 68 8 Notes 1.
Group ownership 100% for on-site schemes.
Incremental capital cost including capitalised interest.
Values are not included for extension projects 4.
Incremental income net of head rents and after expiry of rent-free periods.
which are incorporated into the value of the existing property.
Let or in solicitors hands by income at 17 February 2017. retailers: Odeon: Costa: Mothercare: and Toys Introduction Portfolio highlights R Us, leaving the remaining eight new retail and The Group has a pipeline of development restaurant units to be let during 2017. opportunities in the UK, France and Ireland, Two schemes completed including three on-site retail park schemes, three Elliotts Field, Phase I opened in October during 2016 major London developments and a number of 2 2015, providing 16,900m of high-quality retail 2 potential future projects across the portfolio.
Victoria Gate, space anchored by a 5,600m Debenhams and These schemes provide the opportunity to 2 Leeds and Westquay a 4,700m M&S general merchandise store.
significantly grow the business and enhance Capitalising on the success of Phase I and the Watermark, the quality of the Groups existing portfolio strong demand from furniture and flooring Southampton over the medium term.
We carefully control retailers, planning consent was granted for a expenditure and will only commit to projects 2 7,900m second phase on land adjacent to the New on-site when the risk level is acceptable.
This will vary existing shopping park and construction started for each project and is dependent on a variety in February 2017.
The scheme is due to complete retail park projects of factors including general market conditions, by the end of the year and is currently 44% pre-let in Didcot, Rugby and pre-letting, construction and programme including anchor retailers DFS and Sofology.
We Swansea certainty, and funding and financial viability.
At plan for this to be our first carbon-neutral retail 31 December 2016, committed capital expenditure park for building energy consumption.
was low at 68 million, of which the majority Good progress In January 2017, we started on-site with the represented the remaining expenditure at Leeds made with three 42 million expansion of the existing Orchard and Southampton and land acquisitions relating Centre in Didcot.
The scheme will create major London to our major developments.
This position means 2 8,700m of new retail space, increasing the size of the Group retains flexibility over the future development 2 the total scheme to 30,000m and leases for 39% commitment of its development opportunities.
schemes of the estimated income have been exchanged Completed developments with M&S Food, H&M, River Island, TK Maxx, Costa and Starbucks.
Didcot has an affluent and We completed two UK shopping centre growing catchment and is located between Oxford, developments during 2016: Victoria Gate, Reading, Newbury and High Wycombe.
The Leeds: and Westquay Watermark, Southampton.
scheme is scheduled to complete in early 2018 and These successful developments add two new will deliver 3 million additional rental income.
destinationsto our portfolio and further details are in the UK shopping centres section of this Future developments Business Review on page 23.
Our future development opportunities include On-site developments schemes in all of the Groups portfolios, including three major London developments.
These have In Swansea, we started on-site in December 2016 2 on a 21,200m 16 million redevelopment of Parc the potential to significantly grow the business and create modern iconic retail destinations.
Tawe which is due to complete at the end of 2017.
The scheme will create a modern, mixed retail and During 2016 we have progressed a number of these schemes, although there are further milestones to leisure park with new public realm and improved city centre pedestrian links.
The scheme is 53% achieve before we are in a position to commence these projects.
pre-let with new leases signed with existing 30 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW Brent Cross extension The Goodsyard In conjunction with our joint venture partner, Standard Life, Bishopsgate Goodsyard is a 4.2ha site on the edge of the City we have continued to advance plans for the extension and of London which is owned in joint venture with our partner, refurbishment of Brent Cross shopping centre in north-west Ballymore Properties.
The planning application for a large London.
This project forms part of the wider Brent Cross mixed-use development was called-in by the Mayor of London Cricklewood regeneration plans with the extended shopping in September 2015.
In April 2016, following the GLAs planning 2 centre comprising 175,000m of retail, catering and leisure use and officers recommendation to refuse the application, the Mayor will be the principal retail destination for north London.
Following agreed to defer the application to allow further consultation completion of the development agreementand the CPO Inquiry with the GLAs planning officers and redesign elements of the in 2016, the next steps are to submit a reserved matters planning proposed scheme.
This work is underway and we aim to submit the application in spring 2017, receive confirmation of CPO powers, necessary amendments and obtain determination by the Mayor sign lease agreements with key tenants ahead of a decision to later this year.
commence construction in summer 2018 with completion due in Les Trois Fontaines extension 2022.
The Groups estimated remaining development cost is in the The extension of Les Trois Fontaines is part of a wider city centre region of 475-550 million.
This project will add 28,000m to the existing shopping centre and has an estimated cost to complete of 200 million.
The project has been validated by the co-ownership, Auchan and the City.
Building permits and retail consent have been obtained and pre-letting is progressing well.
Other schemes We have a number of potential pipeline schemes in each of our sectors which will enhance the overall quality of the Groups portfolio.
During 2016 we submitted a planning application for an extension to Union Square, Aberdeen and in Paris weprogressed a potential extension scheme at Italie Deux.
Also, our new Irish portfolio contains a number of exciting future projects at the Dundrum estate, Dublin Central and Swords Pavilions.
The precise nature and design of these schemes are fluid and they are at different stages of development.
The speed of delivery for these pipeline schemes will be dependent on a variety of factors including: planning permission: retailer demand: anchor tenant negotiations: land assembly: scheme design: funding: and financial viability.
Further details of these schemes are included on page 187.
Brent Cross extension architects impression Croydon town centre Positive places The Croydon Partnership, a 50:50 joint venture with Westfield, is progressing a scheme to redevelop the Whitgift Centre and We were delighted to work in partnership with refurbish Centrale shopping centre, with the Groups total future Sir Robert McAlpine during 2016 on a project exploring the costs in the region of 650-700 million.
The scheme will establish Natural Capital implications of different technologies being Croydon as the principal retail and leisure hub for south London incorporated into two of our developments.
The concept of Natural and is part of wider large-scale regeneration already underway Capital is not new but the work of the Natural Capital Coalition in the area.
The Partnership owns key interests in the site and and the publication of related protocols is bringing the debate to controls 100% of Centrale and 75% of the Whitgift Centre.
A new the wider business community.
The project produced fascinating outline planning application was submitted in October 2016.
The insight on how we might reflect capital other than financial in our enhanced application included scheme revisions which were decision-making.
The output from thiswork is available on our outside the scope of the existing outline planning permission, sustainability website, www.
principally a new M&S anchor store and a redesign of the northern end of the scheme.
The revised design incorporates three levels Our True value of shopping centres research demonstrated of retail with over 300 shops, restaurants and cafs, as well as the wider benefits of retail development with employment improved leisure facilities, public realm improvements and generationhaving a positive impact way beyond the individuals residential homes.
The decision on the new planning application is employed.
We are in the process of updating this work and the expected by summer 2017 and, subject to finalising detailed design original reports are available on our corporate website, and completing agreements with key anchor tenants, the earliest www.
start on site could be during 2018, allowing retailers to trade through the busy Christmas period in 2017.
COM 31 Business review continued Premium outlets During 2016, we increased our two premium outlets investments in Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
They continue to deliver excellent income and capital growth and align with our strategy of allocating capital to growing consumer markets.
Table 14 1 1 Operational summary Value Retail VIA Outlets Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 2 Brand sales m 2,562 2,380 437 374 3 Brand sales growth % 8 11 7 10 2 Footfall millions 34.6 33.3 12.7 10.2 2 Average spend per visit 74 71 34 37 2 Average sales densities 000 m 15.1 14.3 3.9 3.3 4 Average sales densities growth % 6 8 19 6 Occupancy % 96 96 92 87 1.
Figures reflect overall portfolio performance, not Hammersons ownership share 3.
VIA Outlet figures include six months of Festival Park sales for both 2016 and 2015 and 2015 figures have been restated at 2016 exchange rates.
Average sales densities have been calculated as a weighted average based on the 2.
2016 VIA Outlets figures include Festival Park since July 2016. average occupied GLA.
Festival Park has been excluded for both 2016 and 2015 due to information being unavailable.
Sector and portfolio overview Portfolio highlights Value Retail VR Outlets offer a distribution channel for brands to Strategic overview sell excess inventory at a material discount to the VR operates nine high-end shopping-tourism Strong brand sales growth original price.
Premium outlets are at the top of this Villages in the UK and Western Europe which sector, providing international fashion and luxury Value Retail 2 provide over 182,000m of floor space and more brands with an environment similar to a full priced than1,000 stores.
VR focuses on international store, where retailers are able to maintain and fashion and luxury brands and attracts long-haul 8% protect their brand identity.
tourists and wealthy domestic customers.
The Villages, which include Bicester Village outside Over recent years, the European outlets sector VIA Outlets London and La Valle Village near Paris, are among has seen both strong sales growth and increasing the most successful outlet centres in Europe.
investor demand, and investment yields have reduced during 2016.
However, transactions are 7% The average sales density for the Villages is relatively infrequent with many traded off-market, 2 15,100 m with densities at Bicester Village particularly at the higher end of the outlets sector, 2 around 38,400 m representing growth of 7.9% in Developments where our portfolios have chosen to operate.
The Villages have been intentionally located Fidenza extension close to Europes wealthiest cities and major The market has strong demand for discounted opened and tourist attractions and targeted marketing enables luxury and fashion items from international tourists, VR to benefit from the growing shopping-tourism in particular from China, India, Russia and the Bicester Phase 4 market.
In total, over 160 million residents Middle East.
In 2016, spending patterns of wealthy commenced live within a 120 minute drive of a Village, and tourists have been influenced by security concerns the major cities served by the Villages attract and currency movements.
Reduced spending by Acquisitions 100 million tourists each year.
This strategy has Chinese visitors has beenmitigated by growing enabled VR to deliver annual compound brand demand from other international travellers.
Additional sponsor sales growth of over 15% since 2006 and during stakes acquired in Our exposure to the sector, which has increased 2016 VR enhanced their management team through Value Retail.
over recent years, is gained through our long-term external recruitment.
partnership with Value Retail and also through VIA Outlets acquired We hold interests in the VR holding companies as VIA Outlets, a joint venture established in 2014. five outlets well as direct investments in the Villages.
When Both portfolios are externally managed, although these holdings are combined, at 31 December 2016, the Group has a strong relationship with both the Group had an economic interest in the net management teams and Timon Drakesmith is a assets of VR of 40%.
Board member of Value Retail and is Chairman of the VIA Outlets advisory committee.
The sector Acquisitions and disposals has many similarities with our directly managed In December 2016, we acquired additional properties and we utilise the knowledge gained sponsor stakesin VR holding companiesfor to enhance the brand experience across our 41 million, increasing our sponsor interest to other portfolios.
We also sold our minority stake in VR China for 8 million, crystallising aprofit of 1.3 million.
32 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS REVIEW commenced work to improve the brand mix and enhance the food Performance in 2016 and beverage offer at the centre.
Against a more challenging macro-economic environment and a slowdown in long-haul tourism growth, particularly from China, In November 2016, VIA agreed to acquirefour outlet centres from sales growth is slightly lower in 2016 at 8%, compared with 11% the IRUS fund, with the Groups share of the acquisition cost being in 2015.
Performance has varied across the Villages, with strong 170 million.
All of the centres are located close to major cities, growth at Bicester, Oxford, La Roca, Barcelona, and Kildare, 2 with the largest centre at 29,000m in Zweibrcken, Germany with Dublin, the latter Village benefiting from the opening of a major 2 114 tenants and a sales density of 6,000 m. The second largest extension in late 2015.
However, La Valle Village, Paris has seen a 2 at 28,000m is in Porto, Portugal with the other centres in Seville, more subdued performance, with reduced tourist visits associated Spain and Wroclaw, Poland.
The latter centres have sales densities with the continuing terrorist threat in Paris.
2 2 ranging from 3,300 m to 4,000 m. At 31 December 2016, we had completed the acquisition of two of the assets, Seville and VR have redirected promotional activities towards both a more Wroclaw with Zweibrcken completing in February 2017.
The diverse tourist market and high-end domestic customers.
They acquisition of Porto is expected to be finalised in the spring.
The are also proactively evolving and improving the brand mix at transaction increases VIAs portfolio value to 1.2 billion, achieving the Villages and enhancing the customer experience through the original acquisition strategy.
refurbishment, enhanced customer services and extensions.
This strategy boosted sales growth in the second half of 2016 with Performance in 2016 growth of 10%, compared to 5% in the first half of the year.
VIAs portfolio has performed strongly during 2016, particularly Batavia Stad and Fashion Arena, and sales densities have increased Developments and extensions 2 by 19% year-on-year.
At Batavia Stad, significant upgrades have At Fidenza Village, Milan a new 3,300m extension opened in been implemented in 2016 including 30 remerchandising projects October 2016.
Leasing demand has been strong with new boutiques impacting almost a quarter of the scheme.
opened by Dsquared2, Jil Sander, Nike, Roberto Cavalli and a new restaurant, Villano.
At 31 December 2016, the Village occupancy Occupancy at 92% was 5% higher than at the beginning of the rate is 91% with only seven units to let.
year following new lettings at a number of the outlet centres during the year.
Occupancy at premium outlets tends to be At Bicester Village, the demolition of the former Tesco store was 2 lower than for shopping centres and retail parks due to the completed and construction on the 5,800m extension commenced  and retenanting activity.
The project, due to open in October 2017, will introduce 34 new brands, over 500 new car parking spaces and Developments and extensions enhanced road access.
2 At Batavia Stad, a 6,900m extension is due to open in early 2017 andwill introduce 41 new units and increase space by 28%.
Further VIA Outlets VIA upgrades are being implemented including new faades and 40 Strategic overview remerchandising projects, including new brands Gant and Falke.
VIA is an outlets joint venture formed in 2014 in partnership with The tourist marketing strategy implemented in 2015 has delivered APG, Value Retail and Meyer Bergman in which Hammerson a 37% increase in tax free sales during 2016. has a 47% stake.
VIAs strategy has been to create a c. 1 billion portfolio by acquiring existing European outlet centres with The enhancement works at the food court at Fashion Arena have now finished and 22 remerchandising projects have been strong catchments, focused on mainstream fashion brands and with potential for growth through active asset and development completed during 2016, including the opening of the first Polo Ralph Lauren outlet store in central and eastern Europe.
It reached this target in late 2016 through the acquisition of four outlets and management intend to focus on sales were 37% higher in 2016 than 2015. the integration and improvement of the operational efficiency Work has started at Freeport, Lisbon ona major reconfiguration and performance of the portfolio in 2017.
At 31 December 2016, and enhancement of the centre.
The total lettable space will be 2 VIA operated eight centres providing 148,000m of floor reduced through the closure of large warehouse-type units and space and 680stores acrosssevenEuropean countries.
new smaller units will be let to premium retailers and restaurants.
Major centresincluded Freeport, near Lisbon, Batavia Stad, This reconfiguration is accompanied by a refurbishment of the near Amsterdam, Fashion Arena, near Prague, and Festival existing space and works are due to complete in September 2017.
With some oversight from VR, the VIA team enhances the overall centre management, physical appearance, leisure and catering Positive places offers and tenant mix of the centres to deliver sales, income and value growth.
The strategy also involves work to right-size units, VIA Outlets have completed a sustainability review in 2016 the introduction of more flagship stores and targeted marketing to and will be implementing a work plan for the portfolio in 2017. increase tourist visits and total footfall.
The centres vary in terms of configuration, construction Acquisitions and age, and operate under a range of local regulations, making In July 2016, VIA completed the acquisition of Festival Park, current sustainability performance inconsistent.
Nevertheless, Majorca with the Groups share of the acquisition price being there are examples of excellence such as Landquart, Zurichwhich 2 2 44 million.
The 33,000m centre includes an 8,000m cinema and provides renewable electricity to all tenants from an off-site attracted 4.4 million visitors in 2016.
VIA management has already photovoltaic system.
