Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR STOCKBROKER, BANK, SOLICITOR, ACCOUNTANT, FUND MANAGER OR OTHER APPROPRIATE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL ADVISOR.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions Melrose PLC you should send this document as soon as possible to and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under purchaser or transferee.
the laws of, any territory or any other matter, Notice is hereby given that the seventh Annual General Meeting of the such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00am on 13 May 2010 for the earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2011 but, in each following purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into resolutions and resolutions 8 to 11 as special resolutions.
Resolutions agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, 7 to 11 are special business as defined under the Companys Articles require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert of Association.
securities into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights under any such offer Ordinary resolutions or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the financial Special resolutions year ended 31 December 2009, together with the Directors report and the auditors report on those financial statements.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 7, the Directors be generally empowered to 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report contained in the allot equity securities as defined in the Act for cash pursuant to the Companys Annual Report and financial statements for the year authority granted by resolution 7 and or to sell ordinary shares of ended 31 December 2009.
0.2 pence each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares 3.
To re-elect Mr David Roper, who retires by rotation, as a Director held by the Company as treasury shares for cash in each case of the Company.
free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the Act, such power to be limited: 4.
To elect Mr Miles Templeman, who has been re-appointed as a Director since the last Annual General Meeting, as a Director A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares of the Company.
for cash in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by 5.
To elect Mr John Grant, who has been re-appointed as a Director since paragraph B of resolution 7, such power shall be limited to the the last Annual General Meeting, as a Director of the Company.
allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way 6.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold of a rights issue only : office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion i to Ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which practicable to their existing holdings: and accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors 7.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors otherwise consider necessary, be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and grant and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or the Company: appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 331,724: and the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the B to the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set out in Companies Act 2006 the Act up to an aggregate nominal paragraph A of this resolution 8 of equity securities pursuant amount of 663,449 such amount to be reduced by the to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 7 and aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants made or the sale of treasury shares for cash up to a nominal amount under paragraph A of this resolution 7 in connection with an of 49,758, offer by way of a rights issue: such power to apply until the end of the Companys next Annual i to Ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until practicable to their existing holdings: and the close of business on 30 June 2011 but so that the Company ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights may make offers and enter into agreements before the power of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be otherwise consider necessary, allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 99 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 9.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of 1.
The holders of Ordinary Shares and 2009 Incentive Shares in the section 693 of the Act of Ordinary Shares provided that: Company are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting, but only holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to vote.
A member a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy to exercise all authorised to be purchased is 49,758,677 representing 10% of or any of its rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting the issued Ordinary Share capital : of the Company.
Such a member may appoint more than one b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights is 0.2 pence: attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is not more than the higher of: 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotation any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed or for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is received Exchange plcs Daily Official List for the five business days by the Companys registrars at the address specified on the form immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is purchased: and is not a working day before the time for holding the meeting.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude a member highest current independent bid on the trading venue where from attending the meeting and voting in person.
the purchase is carried out, 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person in each case, exclusive of expenses: nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the d this authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, Meeting of the Company following the passing of this under an agreement between him and the shareholder by whom resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have 2011 : someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such Shares under this authority before expiry of the authority which agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of that as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 pursuance of any such contract: and and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights f any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this authority may described in notes 1 and 2 can only be exercised by shareholders either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, of the Company.
depending on which course of action is considered by the 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
and for the purposes of the determination by the Company of the 10.
That: number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members by 6.00pm on 11 May 2010 A the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Act, are on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at and the meeting.
B the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and 5.
As at 7 April 2010 being the last business day prior to the initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of consists of 497,586,779 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each, the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the and 50,000 2009 Incentive Shares, which do not carry votes.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 7 April 2010 11.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting are 497,586,779. may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, By order of the Board Registered office who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Precision House Garry Barnes Arden Road Company Secretary Alcester 7 April 2010 B49 6HN 100 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information 7.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 12.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a questions.
The Company must answer any such question CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly and must contain the information required for such instruction, with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
confidential information, b the answer has already been given com CREST.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be of the meeting that the question be answered.
transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 11.00am on 11 May 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in the place of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and and during the meeting: limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member a copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries: Member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting b a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting Directors of the Company: and service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST c a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Company, and a copy of the existing Memorandum and members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Articles marked to show the changes being proposed in system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of resolution 10. the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 101 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes on the principal changes to the Companys 5.
Redeemable shares Articles of Association Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue 1.
The Companys objects redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are directors to determine such matters instead provided they are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and its current so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an Articles of Association the Current Articles.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause shares but if it did so the Directors would need shareholders which sets out the wide scope of the activities the Company is authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional shares, and reduce share capital significance of a companys memorandum and provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, company.
Under the Companies Act 2006, for companies in to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share existence at 1 October 2009, the objects clause and all other capital or other undistributable reserves, as well as shareholder provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum are authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association.
Under the Companies Act The company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling articles provide otherwise, its objects are unrestricted.
This provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects 7.
Use of seals clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as of Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Resolution 10 A confirms the removal of Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution New Articles.
will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys 8.
Suspension of registration of share transfers memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the proposed new articles of association of the Company the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share New Articles contain an express statement regarding the transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power limited liability of shareholders.
in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is 2.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions been removed in the New Articles.
contained in the Companies Act 2006 are removed in the New 9.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands Articles or amended to bring them into line with the Companies The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Act 2006.
Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy 3.
Change of name appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in which case its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy company will be able to change its name by other means provided has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New resolution and by one or more members to vote against the Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the resolution.
The New Articles reflect these changes.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Current Articles give the Chairman a casting vote in the event The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a of an equality of votes in a general meeting.
This is no longer company to have an authorised share capital and the New permitted under the Companies Act 2006 and New Articles Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number reflect this.
of shares they can allot because shareholder authority to allot shares continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
