Cautionary statement The Business review has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The Business review contains certain forward-looking statements.
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors underlying any such forwardlooking information.
directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare group financial statements in accordance with International Financial reporting Standards IFrSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the lAS regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFrSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in lFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business review, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
On behalf of the Board S Ingham S Puckett chief Executive group Finance Director 5 March 2010 5 March 2010 94 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 95
