Additional information Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this annual report, including those under the captions entitled Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Of cers statement, finance review, directors report, corporate governance and remuneration report constitute forward-looking statements.
All statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report, including, without limitation, those regarding the Companys financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives, are forward-looking statements.
These forwardlooking statements can be identi ed by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions regarding the Companys present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the level of expenditure committed to development and deployment applications by organisations: the level of deploymentrelated revenue expected by the Company: the degree to which organisations adopt web-enabled services: the rate at which large organisations migrate applications from the mainframe environment: the continued use and necessity of the mainframe for business critical applications: the degree of competition faced by Micro Focus: growth in the information technology services market: general economic and business conditions, particularly in the United States: changes in technology and competition: and the Companys ability to attract and retain quali ed personnel.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this annual report.
Except as required by the FSA, or by law, the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 88 International plc Accounts 2009 Additional information Find out more www.
com Customer: Investor: Products Our business Solutions Key financial data Services Share price information Support Board of Directors Resources Management team About Micro Focus Video presentations Corporate governance Reports and Accounts Financial calendar Regulatory News Investor contacts Site services This brochure is printed on material that is manufactured from ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp sourced from certi ed and well-managed forests and is FSC certi ed Forest Stewardship Council.
This brochure is 100% recyclable and biodegradable and is printed using vegetable oil based inks.
Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
com Micro Focus International plc The Lawn 22-30 Old Bath Road Newbury Berkshire RG14 1QN United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1635 32646 Fax: 44 0 1635 33966 www.
