74 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 75 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED I Investment properties Investment properties held by the Group are properties which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
Any increase or decrease in the fair value on annual revaluation is recognised in the income statement in accordance with IAS 40: Investment Property.
As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 40, as at 1 January 2009 the Group has reclassified investment properties under construction from property, plant and equipment to investment properties.
Investment properties under construction are carried at cost less impairment if the fair value cannot be determined reliably until such time as the fair value becomes reliably determinable or completion is completed whichever the earlier.
The Group has adopted this approach with Sunnyvale residences and has not taken any fair value adjustment.
An external independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of the property being valued, values the portfolio annually.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups associate undertaking, CDLHT, holds hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreements involved.
For the purposes of the preparation of the Groups financial statements, to the extent that these assets held by CDLHT qualify to be accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, the Group equity accounts for its share of CDLHTs fair value change within its overall share of profits from associates.
Such share of fair value change is recorded as a share of other operating income expenses of associates in the Groups income statement.
Where in the Groups view, the indicators of the lease arrangement are of an owner-occupied property, the property is accounted for in the Groups financial statements as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
J Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
K Development properties Development properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and are held-for-sale in the short-term and are therefore classified as current assets.
The cost of development properties includes interest and other related expenditure incurred in order to get the asset ready for its intended use.
L Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
M Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
N Income tax Income tax on profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: i the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and ii differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only to the extent that: i the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities: ii the Group intends to settle net: and iii the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
