70 71 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED B Investment in associates and joint ventures The Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Under the equity method, the investment in associates and joint ventures is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group's share of net assets of the associate and joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the associate and joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate and joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate and joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
The share of profit of associates and joint ventures is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and joint venture and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates and joint ventures.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate and joint venture is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associates and joint ventures and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
Upon loss of significant influence over associates and joint ventures, the Group measures and recognises any retaining investment at its fair value.
Any differences between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in profit or loss.
Upon loss of joint control and provided the former joint control entity does not become a subsidiary or associate, the Group measures and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the former joint controlled entity upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in profit or loss.
When the remaining investment constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as investment in an associate.
C Foreign currency i Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity in the foreign currency translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, and of related hedges are taken to translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the foreign operation.
