78 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 79 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS CONTINUED Lease backs from CDLHT As part of the transactions with CDLHT in 2006, the Group entered into sale and lease back arrangements in respect of three hotels in Singapore.
As further explained in note 33 the Group entered into 20 year leases with CDLHT for each of the hotel buildings with variable rent based on the hotels performance but subject to a fixed minimum rental, and with an option granted to the Group to renew for a further 20 years on the same rental terms.
Although the Group has the option to lease the building assets for a total of 40 years, there remains a substantial proportion of the assets economic lives for which the Group will not benefit from the assets.
In addition, the present value of the minimum lease payments for the 40-year potential term of the three leases do not constitute substantially all of the fair value of the leased assets, and the variable rent structure is such that the Group does not retain significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets.
Accordingly, the Group has classified the lease back arrangements as operating leases in accordance with IAS 17: Leases.
The prepaid operating land lease income is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, and is being amortised over the 75 years of the lease.
At 31 December 2009 an amount of 107.1m is recognised on the statement of financial position as deferred income, 105.6m in non-current liabilities and 1.5m in current creditors and an amount of 1.5m has been credited to the 2009 income statement.
In addition, the Groups lease of the Grand Copthorne Waterfront Hotel from CDLHT as part of the 2006 transactions entered with CDLHT has also been similarly accounted for by the Group as an operating lease for the same reasons noted above.
Investment property The Group holds a number of investment properties and accounts for such properties in accordance with the accounting policy set out on page 74.
CDLHT owns hotel assets which are leased to both the Group and external third parties with lease rentals and related charges varying according to the agreement involved.
The Group accounts for such hotel assets in its financial statements in accordance with the accounting policy set out on page 74.
Judgement is required in assessing whether the relevant hotel assets held by CDLHT are owner-occupied or not, for the purposes of assessing whether IAS 40, Investment Property is applicable and whether therefore, accounting for the relevant hotels as investment properties is appropriate for the purposes of the Groups financial statements.
The question of whether or not a property is owner-occupied is a matter of judgement, involving consideration of various factors such as, the length of the agreement involved, the powers of intervention and level of influence on financial and operating decisions held by the Group or CDLHT, and the extent of the Group or CDLHTs interest in the profits and cash flows generated by the relevant properties.
Where the indicators are such that on balance, CDLHT is, in the Groups opinion, shown to be a passive investor, the relevant hotel property is accounted for in accordance with IAS 40 and the Group accounts for its share of the fair value change through the income statement as a share of other operating income expense of the associate.
Where indicators are of an owner-occupied property, the hotel is classified as part of CDLHTs property, plant and equipment with the Groups share of CDLHTs results for the period incorporating an appropriate depreciation charge.
NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET ADOPTED A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2009, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: IASB IFRIC documents not yet endorsed as at 31 December 2009 Amended IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 requires that accounting for changes in ownership interests by the Group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised as an equity transaction.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The amendments to IAS 27, which will become mandatory for the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements, are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Groups operations: The definition of a business has been broadened, which is likely to result in more acquisitions being treated as business combinations.
Contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes therein recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred.
Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on a  basis.
Revised IFRS 3, which will become mandatory for the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements, will be applied prospectively and therefore there will be no impact on prior periods in the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements.
