120 121 Notes to the Company Financial Statements A ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which assumes that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accounting convention and basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The profit after tax dealt with in the accounts of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, determined in accordance with the Act was 19.0m 2008: 20.4m.
Under Financial Reporting Standard No 1 revised, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement as its cash flows are included within the published consolidated cash flow statement of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
Investments In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends received and receivable are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand less overdrafts payable on demand.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise when items on income and expenditure are included in tax computations in periods different from their inclusion in the financial statements.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The Company uses a fair value hedging model to designate bank loans and bonds held in overseas currencies as hedging instruments against designated overseas investments held in the same currency.
Under such fair value hedges, both the hedged item and the hedging instrument are retranslated with the exchange differences in both cases being recorded in the profit and loss account as they arise at each period end.
The Directors reviewed the accounting treatment of the unhedged part of the investment and decided it is appropriate to recognise this at historical cost.
The retranslation previously recognised in reserves has been reclassified accordingly.
Share-based payment FRS 20 requires that the fair value of share options granted to employees be recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
However, during the current and prior year, the Company had no employees and only issued share options to employees of its operating subsidiaries.
Consequently, no profit and loss change has been recorded in the current or prior year.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the financial statements.
