72 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED iii Subsequent costs Capital expenditure on major projects is recorded separately within property, plant and equipment as capital work in progress.
Once the project is complete the balance is transferred to the appropriate fixed asset categories.
Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the construction or acquisition of new hotels or major extensions to existing hotels is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the hotel core.
Operating supplies, which include china, linen, glass and silverware, are stated at their deemed costs as at 1 January 2008 and subsumed into the costs of the hotel buildings.
Subsequent renewals and replacements of such stocks and new supplies upon initial hotel opening are written off as incurred to the income statement.
G Leases i Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The leased asset is initially recorded at the lower of fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments.
The equivalent liability, categorised as appropriate, is included within current or non-current liabilities.
Assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce constant rates of return on the outstanding balance.
Rentals payable by the Group under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on the same basis.
In cases where rents comprise a fixed and a variable element, the fixed element only is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis with the variable amounts being charged as they become due.
Lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Rentals receivable by the Group as lessor under operating leases, including the sub-letting of retail outlets within hotel properties, are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term even if the receipts are not made on such a basis.
Costs, including depreciation incurred in earning the lease income are recognised as an expense.
ii Lease premium On occasion the Group makes and receives initial payments on entering into both long and short leases of land and buildings.
As leases of land are normally classified as operating leases if title is not expected to pass, the element of the payment attributable to land is recorded on the balance sheet as lease premium prepayment and is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest attributable to funds used to finance the purchase of leases of land is capitalised gross of tax relief and added to the cost of the lease prepayments.
In the case of lease premiums received, these are reflected on the balance sheet as deferred income, appropriately classified between current and noncurrent liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
H Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment properties, inventories, employee benefit assets and deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Where permissible under IFRS, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment had been recognised.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value of the asset below its cost is considered in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
