76 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 77 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Q Revenue and its recognition Revenue comprises: Income from the ownership and operation of hotels recognised at the point at which the accommodation and related services are provided: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and or an incentive fee, which is generally based on the hotels profitability: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the contract: Franchise fees received in connection with licensing of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue: recognised when earned on an accrual basis under the terms of the agreement: REIT managers management fees earned from CDLHT and recognised on an accrual basis based on the applicable formula as described in note 33: Income from property rental recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term, lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income: and Land, development property and property sales recognised when legal title transfers provided the related significant risk and rewards of ownership have passed by that date.
R Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
S Operating segment information The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Disclosure of segmental information is principally presented in respect of the Groups geographical segments.
The segments reported reflect the operating information included in internal reports that the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, the Board, regularly reviews.
Further details are given in note 5.
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Discrete financial information is reported to and is reviewed by the CODM on a geographical basis.
A Chief Operating Officer COO or equivalent is responsible for one or more geographical segments and is accountable for the functioning of the segment and who maintains regular contact with executive members of the CODM to discuss the operational and financial performance.
The CODM makes decisions about allocation of resources to the regions managed by the COO.
Segment results that are reported to the CODM include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items principally comprise: interest-bearing loans, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, net finance expense, taxation balances and corporate expenses.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill.
T Non-current assets held-for-sale Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising assets and liabilities that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held-for-sale.
Generally the assets or disposal group are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to property, plant and equipment and lease premium prepayment, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
U Other financial assets and liabilities Trade investments are classified as available-for-sale assets and are included under non-current assets within other financial assets.
They are recorded at market value with movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material less impairment.
Trade and other payables are stated at their nominal amount discounted if material.
V Related parties For the purpose of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
