76 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3.
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Management discussed with the Audit Committee on the selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Certain critical accounting policies, among others, affect the Groups more significant estimates and assumptions used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Actual results could differ from the Groups estimates and assumptions.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in the following areas: Asset carrying values Management performs an assessment at each balance sheet date of assets across the Group where risk of impairment has been identified.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, investments in and loans to associates and joint ventures and development properties.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Where risk of impairment has been identified an impairment review has been performed on property, plant and equipment, lease premium prepayments and investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates held across the Group on a cash generating basis.
Where appropriate, external evaluations are also undertaken.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and appropriate growth rates.
The discount rates used reflect appropriate sensitivities involved in the assessment.
Discount rates used for impaired properties are disclosed in note 13.
Going concern For the last several years the Group has had a history of profitable operations and ready access to financial resources, and in general, management concluded that the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate without detailed analysis.
However, given the current uncertain economic conditions which include recessionary pressures that have an impact on the Groups revenues, operating costs and profitability, management have estimated a wide range of factors relating to current and expected profitability, have considered sensitivities around potential trading levels and covenant compliance, reviewed debt repayment schedules, and potential sources of replacement financing before they can satisfy themselves that the going concern basis is appropriate.
Defined benefit pension plans The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
As set out in note 24, the calculation of the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligations at each period end is subject to significant estimation.
An appropriately qualified, independent actuary is used to undertake this calculation.
The assumptions made by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The valuation of scheme assets is based on their fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short-term, their values may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
In reviewing the work of the independent actuary, management was required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 24.
Taxation The Group has, from time-to-time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions.
After taking appropriate external professional advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measureable.
Investment in CDLHT In 2006 the Group acquired a 39.1% interest in CDLHT, a stapled security listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, comprising a hotel real estate investment trust REIT and a business trust.
The business trust is dormant.
The Groups interest in CDLHT at 31 December 2009 was 39.5%.
CDLHT is not considered to be a special purpose entity under Standing Interpretations Committee 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and the Group does not have, by virtue of its unit holdings, the power to control a majority of the voting rights of the units of CDLHT.
However, as further noted in note 33, the Group acts as REIT Manager through a wholly owned company, under the terms of the trust deed constituting the REIT.
The Directors have therefore given careful consideration to the Groups interest in and relationship with CDLHT for the purposes of assessing whether it should be consolidated in accordance with IAS 27: Consolidation and Separate Financial Statements.
A subsidiary of the Group, M&C REIT Management Limited, in its capacity as REIT Manager, has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
However, there are certain substantive kick-out rights that prevent the Group from exercising the power to control the majority of the Board of the REIT Manager so as to be able to govern the financial and operating policies of the REIT.
Management have judged that the Group does not therefore control CDLHT and it is not a subsidiary of the Group.
Because of the significant influence that the Group has by way of its holding of 39.5% of CDLHT units and representation on the Board of the REIT Manager, the Group equity accounts for its interest in CDLHT as an associate.
