70 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 71 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.2 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURES CONTINUED When the adoption of the standard or interpretation is deemed to have an impact on the financial statements or performance of the Group, its impact is described below: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures The amended standard requires additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
In addition, reconciliation between the beginning and ending balance for level 3 fair value measurements is now required, as well as significant transfers between levels in the fair value hierarchy.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
The fair value measurement disclosures are presented in note 23.
The liquidity risk disclosures are not significantly impacted by the amendments and are presented in note 23.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting upon its effective date.
Management concluded that the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments previously identified under IAS 14.
IFRS 8 disclosures are shown in note 5 including the related revised comparative information.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs The revised IAS 23 requires capitalisation of borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Groups previous policy was to expense borrowing costs as they were incurred.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the amended IAS 23, the Group has adopted the standard on a prospective basis.
Therefore, borrowing costs are capitalised on qualifying assets with a commencement date on or after 1 January 2009.
During the 12 months to 31 December 2009, 0.1m of borrowing costs have been capitalised on qualifying assets included in capital work in progress note 13.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 13 requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted.
A portion of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits and deferred.
This is then recognised as revenue over the period that the award credits are redeemed.
The impact on the 2009 financial year was immaterial.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Adopted IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES A Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2009 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree's identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value as at the date through profit and loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it shall not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the consideration transferred over the Group's net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and is allocated to each of the Groups hotels that are expected to benefit from the combination.
If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Business combinations prior to 1 January 2009 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The non-controlling interest formerly known as minority interest was measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Business combinations achieved in stages were accounted for as separate steps.
Any additional acquired share of interest did not affect previously recognised goodwill that was attributed to the hotel's assets.
