38 39 Business Review Non-GAAP Information Non-GAAP Information Presentation of headline operating profit, headline EBITDA, headline profit before tax, headline profit after tax and headline earnings per share In presenting the Groups profitability, headline operating profit, headline EBITDA, headline profit before tax, headline profit after tax and headline earnings per share are calculated.
These exclude other operating income expenses and impairment of the Group, and share of other operating income expenses of joint ventures and associates, fair value adjustments to investment properties and related tax of the aforementioned items.
The Group believes that it is both useful and necessary to report these measures for the following reasons: l they are measures used by the Group for internal performance analysis: and l they are useful in connection with discussions with the investment analyst community.
Reconciliation of these measures to the closest equivalent GAAP measure, operating profit is provided on page 31.
Like-for-like growth The Group believes that like-for-like growth which is not intended to be a substitute, or superior to, reported growth, provides useful and necessary information to investors and interested parties for the following reasons: l it provides additional information on the underlying growth of the business without the effect of factors unrelated to the operating performance of the business: and l it is used by the Group for internal performance analysis.
Cash flow measures In presenting and discussing the Groups reported results, free cash flow is calculated and presented on the basis of methodologies other than in accordance with IFRS.
The Group believes that it is both useful and necessary to communicate free cash flow to investors and other interested parties, for the following reasons: l free cash flow allows the Company and external parties to evaluate the Groups liquidity and the cash generated by the Groups operations.
Free cash flow does not include items determined independently of the ongoing business, such as the level of dividends, and items that are deemed discretionary, such as cash flows relating to acquisitions or financing activities.
However, it does reflect the cash available for such discretionary activities, to strengthen the balance sheet or to provide returns to shareholders in the form of dividends or share purchases: l free cash flow facilitates comparability of results with other companies, although the Groups measure of free cash flow may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies: and l it is useful in connection with discussions with the investment analyst community.
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, the closest equivalent GAAP measure, to free cash flow is provided on page 35.
Net debt In presenting the Groups indebtedness and liquidity position, net debt is calculated.
There is no definition of net debt within IFRS.
The Group believes that it is both useful and necessary to communicate net debt to investors and other interested parties, for the following reasons: l net debt allows the Company and external parties to evaluate the Groups overall indebtedness and liquidity position: l net debt facilitates comparability of indebtedness and liquidity with other companies, although the Groups measure of net debt may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies: and l it is used in discussions with the investment analyst community.
Gearing Gearing is defined as net debt as a percentage of total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent see page 35.
