69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 18 February 2010.
The Company is a limited company incorporated in Great Britain whose shares are publicly traded.
The registered office is located at Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey, RH6 7AF, United Kingdom.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that investment properties and, from 1 January 2005, derivative financial instruments, financial instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as available-for-sale, are stated at their fair value.
Hotel properties are stated at cost or deemed cost.
Deemed cost is calculated based on the hotels frozen valuation as at 1 January 2004.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Groups income statement and segmental analysis separately indentifies headline operating profit, other operating income expense and impairment of the Group together with the other operating income expense, interest, tax and non-controlling interest elements of its share of joint ventures and associates profit loss for the year.
This is in accordance with the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by management and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
Headline operating profit may not be comparable to similarly fitted measures used by other companies.
The Directors intend to follow such presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
The financial statements are presented in the Company's functional currency of sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Basis of consolidation Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2009 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2009. i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
ii Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities equity accounted investees Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are recognised initially at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of equity accounted investees, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest, including any long-term investments, is reduced to nil, and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
2.2 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND DISCLOSURES The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as of 1 January 2009: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective 1 January 2009 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective 1 July 2008 Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 Improvements to IFRSs April 2009, early adoption
