72 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 73 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.3 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED D Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
E Hedges i Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement i. e. when interest income or expense is recognised.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two policy statements, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, then the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities When a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, hedge accounting is not applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity within translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
F Property, plant, equipment and depreciation i Recognition and measurement Land and buildings other than investment properties are stated at cost, except as allowed under IFRS 1 transition rules, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Any impairment of such properties below depreciated historical cost is charged to the income statement.
Under the transition provisions of IFRS 1, land and buildings which were previously revalued under UK GAAP are measured on the basis of their deemed cost, being their UK GAAP carrying value, including revaluations, as at 1 January 2004. ii Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Building core 50 years or lease term if shorter Building surface, finishes and services 30 years or lease term if shorter Plant and machinery 15 20 years Furniture and equipment 10 years Soft furnishings 5 7 years Computer equipment 5 years Motor vehicles 4 years No residual values are ascribed to building surface finishes and services.
Residual values ascribed to building core depend on the nature, location and tenure of each property.
