Accounting policies Overview Business review Basis of preparation Amendment to IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Financial Statements was issued in January 2008.
The amendments accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs relate primarily to accounting for non-controlling interests and the and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee loss of control of a subsidiary.
It is required to be implemented by IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and the Group from 1 June 2010. with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to IFRS 8 Operating Segments which will replace IAS 14 Segmental companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group in addition to complying Reporting adopts a management approach under which segmental with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International reporting purposes.
It is effective for accounting periods beginning Accounting Standards Board.
Whilst the standard will not impact the The following IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations and amendments financial position of the Group it is possible that future segment have been adopted in the financial statements.
None had any impact reporting disclosures may change.
on the Group results or financial position: Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and consequential IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation is IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum effective from 1 January 2009.
An investment in an associate is Funding Requirements and their Interaction treated as a single asset for the purpose of impairment testing.
Any impairment loss is not allocated to speci c assets included The following IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments have within the investment, for example, goodwill.
Reversals of impairment been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board but are recorded as an adjustment to the investment balance to the are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: extent that the recoverable amount of the associate increases.
The Group will apply IAS 28 amendment to impairment tests related to IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate was issued investments in associates and any related impairment losses where in July 2008 and is effective for periods beginning on or after applicable from 1 June 2009.
It applies to the construction of real estate.
It clari es when an agreement meets the fide nition of a construction Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets is effective from contract, with revenue being recognised under IAS 11 Construction 1 January 2009.
Where fair value less cost to sell is calculated on the contracts and when an agreement constitutes a sale of goods, basis of discounted cash ows, disclosures equivalent to those for with revenue being recognised under IAS 18 Revenue.
Though a value-in-use calculation should be made.
The Group will apply the speci cally addressing construction of real estate the basis for amendment and provide the required disclosure where applicable conclusions suggests that it might be applied more widely by from 1 June 2009. analogy.
Management does not expect this interpretation to have a material impact on the Group results or financial position.
The following interpretations and amendments to existing standards have been published and will be applied from 1 June 2009 or later IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements was issued based on effective date: in January 2008.
It affects the presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive income.
It does not change the Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs applies to borrowing costs recognition, measurement or disclosure of speci c transactions relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date and other events required by other IFRSs.
It is required to be is on or after 1 January 2009. implemented by the Group from 1 June 2009.
Management does Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and not expect this interpretation to have a material impact on the Group IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements are effective from results or financial position.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment clari es that vesting Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current assets held-for-sale and conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only.
discontinued operations is effective from 1 July 2009.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions and would need to be included in the grant date fair value.
It also Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible Assets is effective from speci es that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other 1 January 2009. parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
Management does not expect this amendment to have a material impact on the Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Bene ts was issued in May 2008.
Group results or financial position.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations was issued in January Measurement was issued in May 2008.
It addresses the guidance for applying the acquisition method of accounting.
It is required to be implemented prospectively to It is not anticipated that any of the above amendments will have business combinations on or after 1 June 2010. a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
68 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www.
com Accounting policies Search Corporate governance Financial statements IFRIC 16 hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is effective A summary of the Groups accounting policies is given below.
IFRIC 16 clari es the accounting treatment in Accounting convention respect of net investment hedging.
This includes the fact that the The consolidated financial information has been prepared under net investment hedging relates to differences in functional currency the historical cost convention, except for certain items which are not presentation currency, and the hedging instrument may be held measured at fair value, as disclosed in the accounting policies anywhere in the Group.
The requirements of IAS 21 The effects of below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied changes in foreign exchange rates do apply to the hedged item.
to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The Group will apply IFRIC 16 from 1 June 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements The financial effect of IFRS 3 Revised, IAS 27 Revised, IFRS 5 of Misys plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Amended, IAS 28 Amended and IAS 36 Amended will be On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a dependent on the circumstances surrounding the future transactions subsidiary are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
to which they will apply, that are at present unknown.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the The following interpretations and amendments to existing standards identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Prior to have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting the adoption of IFRS, goodwill arising on acquisition was taken to periods beginning on or after 1 January, 2009 or later periods but reserves in accordance with UK GAAP.
Any fide ciency of the cost are not relevant for the Groups operations: of acquisition below the fair values of identi able net assets acquired IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes.
i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to income in the period of acquisition.
Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment for entities whose ordinary activities comprise renting and subsequently Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period have been selling assets.
included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are included in the financial Amendment to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements statements up to the date of disposal.
Accordingly, the consolidated regarding an investment in a subsidiary that is accounted for under income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
and expense and the consolidated cash ow statement include the results and cash ows for the period of ownership.
Amendment to IAS 28, Investment in associates where such an investment is accounted for under IAS 39.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying Amendment to IAS 29, Financial reporting in hyperin ationary a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether Amendment to IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, where it is the group controls another entity.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the Amendment to IAS 38, Intangible assets as all intangible assets acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of an acquisition are amortised using the straight line method.
is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, Amendment to IAS 40, Investment property.
plus costs directly attributed to the acquisition.
Identi able assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in Amendment to IAS 41, Agriculture.
a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
Amendment to IAS 20, Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners.
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 69 Accounting policies Overview Business review Critical accounting estimates and judgements Business combinations Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based The Group recognises transaction costs in prepayments at the on historical experience and other factors, including expectation balance sheet date, in respect of costs incurred on acquisitions or of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the disposals of subsidiaries where it is considered probable that the circumstances.
Due to inherent uncertainty involved in making transaction will complete after the balance sheet date.
Management estimates and assumptions, actual outcomes could differ from those must exercise judgement in determining the probability that the assumptions and estimates.
The critical judgements that have been transaction will complete.
Should circumstances change and the made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the Groups financial transactions not complete as envisaged, the costs on the balance statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have sheet would require to be charged to the income statement.
a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying Merger transaction with Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are The merger transaction with Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. discussed below.
was accounted for in two parts, being the acquisition of an equity Revenue recognition share in Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc and a partial disposal of The revenue and pro t of xed price contracts is recognised on Misys Healthcare business.
The transaction was completed through a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract the transfer of Misys Healthcare business and cash consideration can be estimated reliably.
Management exercises judgement in paid by Misys plc as described in note 17.
The cash consideration determining whether a contracts outcome can be estimated reliably.
paid by Misys plc was considered as consideration in respect of the Management also makes some estimates in the calculation of future acquisition of Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. rather than as part contract costs, which are used in determining the value of amounts of the pro t calculation on partial disposal of Misys Healthcare.
Estimates are continually revised based basis of accounting re ected managements view of the economic on changes in the facts relating to each contract.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Revenue recognition Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and other intangible Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be Group, net of discounts and sales taxes.
An impairment review requires an estimate to be made when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer has occurred of the value in use or the fair value less costs to sell as appropriate.
with no signi cant vendor obligations remaining and where the The value in use calculation includes estimates about the future collection of the resulting receivable is considered probable.
financial performance of the cash generating units, including Where these circumstances exist but no invoice to the customer has managements estimates of long-term operating margins and been raised, under the terms of the contract, revenue is recognised long-term growth rates.
as normal but the corresponding receivable is shown as accrued Onerous property contracts income on the balance sheet.
The property provisions require an estimate to be made of the net Initial licence fees from sales of standard, unmodi ed software are present value of the future costs of vacant and sublet properties.
recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer The calculation includes estimates of future cost involved, including has occurred with no signi cant vendor obligations remaining and managements estimates of the long-term letting potential of where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered the properties.
In instances where a signi cant vendor obligation exists, Taxation revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been satis ed.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element Management is required to exercise signi cant judgement in products if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
Certain essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
transactions require the use of estimates and judgements to Licence and installation fees from sales of standard software sold determine the financial effect where the ultimate tax determination on an Application Service Provider ASP model are recognised is uncertain.
When the final outcome of such matters is different, over the expected life of the contract.
or expected to be different, from previous estimates, such differences will impact on the income tax in the period in which Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, the determination is made.
training and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed.
In certain circumstances, the percentage of completion The Group recognises deferred tax assets on temporary differences method is used to determine the degree of completion of a contract.
where it is probable that future pro ts will be available against which This involves a comparison of the costs incurred on the contract the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
Where the future results differ to date with the total expected costs of the contract.
Losses on from expectations, such differences will impact on the deferred tax contracts are recognised as soon as a loss is foreseen by reference asset recognised in the period in which the determination is made.
to the estimated costs of completion.
70 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www.
com Accounting policies Search Corporate governance Financial statements Initial licence fees on sales of bespoke or heavily customised Leases software, together with revenue from the associated professional Leases are classi ed as finance leases whenever the terms of the services contract are recognised on a percentage of completion lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership basis over the period from the commencement of performance to the lessee.
All other leases are classi ed as operating leases.
on the contract to customer acceptance.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases is Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of cost or present value contract.
Revenue from Electronic Data Interchange EDI and of the minimum lease payments and is depreciated over its useful remote processing services transaction processing is recognised life.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are as the services are performed.
included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Share incentive schemes The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to income The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based on an actuarial basis over the period of the lease.
The fair value of the employee services Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised a straight line basis over the lease term.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options Taxation granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions Taxation is that chargeable on the pro ts for the period, together for example, pro tability and sales growth targets.
Deferred taxation is recognised, using the vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number liability method, in respect of all temporary differences that have of options that are expected to become exercisable.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that may result At each balance sheet date, a revised estimate is made of the in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
If the revised estimate differs from the original estimate, the charge to the Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that income statement is adjusted over the remaining vesting period it is probable that there will be suf cient taxable pro ts from which of the options.
the underlying temporary differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can Pensions be recovered.
The Group operates a number of fide ned contribution pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of these Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates pension schemes are charged to the income statement as incurred.
that are expected to apply in the periods in which the related In addition, the Group has a closed funded fide ned bene t pension deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled scheme in the UK, as well as a number of other smaller fide ned based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance sheet date.
bene t arrangements outside the UK.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement The remaining active members of the closed UK fide ned bene t except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly scheme now contribute to a fide ned contribution section of the to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
Full independent actuarial valuations are carried out on a regular basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
The assets Foreign currencies of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Items included in the financial statements of Group companies are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
in which each entity operates their functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality Each subsidiary translates foreign currency transactions into their corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The own functional currency at rates ruling at the date of each transaction.
pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or fide cit Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated is recognised in full on the balance sheet.
Any current or past service at rates ruling at the balance sheet date, and currency translation cost is recognised in the income statement.
The net of the expected differences are recognised in the income statement.
increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities, and the Groups long-term expected return on its schemes assets, are On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated included in the income statement.
to sterling at the average exchange rate for the period.
Assets and liabilities of overseas operations are translated at exchange rates Any difference arising from experience or assumption changes prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The currency translation and differences between the expected return on assets and those differences arising on both elements are recognised in the actually achieved are charged or credited to the statement of total translation reserve.
recognised income and expense as they arise.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 71 Accounting policies Overview Business review Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency borrowings used Discontinued operations and assets held for sale to finance an equity investment in an overseas operation are offset Where the Group expects to recover the carrying amount of a group in reserves against the exchange differences arising on the of assets through a sale transaction rather than through continuing retranslation of the net investment, up to the level of the investment.
use, and a sale is considered highly probable at the balance sheet The exchange differences on any ineffective portion are recognised date, the assets are classi ed as held for sale and measured at in the income statement.
lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non current assets classi ed Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of as held for sale.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
If the group of assets constitutes a separate major line of business it is classi ed as a discontinued operation.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative translation differences that relate to it, including changes to any long-term Other intangible assets and research intra-group borrowing, are removed from equity and recognised and development expenditure in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Research expenditure, including the cost of in-house software research, is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
The Group hedges its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks using derivatives and foreign currency borrowings.
Expenditure on developed software is capitalised when the Group is able to demonstrate all of the following: the technical feasibility Details of the accounting policies in respect of these are given in of the resulting asset: the ability and intention to complete the the derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting section.
development and use or sell it: how the asset will generate probable future economic bene ts: and the ability to measure reliably the Business combinations expenditure attributable to the asset during its development.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the consideration, including acquisition costs, less the Groups interest in the fair value Development costs which do not meet these criteria are recognised of the identi able assets and liabilities acquired.
in the income statement as incurred and are not subsequently capitalised.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
It is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually and whenever there is a potential Capitalised expenditure on developed software is normally indicator of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately amortised on a straight line basis over the useful economic life, in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
once the related software product is available for use.
On acquisition, speci c intangible assets are identi ed and Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names, at cost and amortised over their useful economic lives.
Intangible customer relationships and complete technology, to which value is assets acquired through a business combination are initially first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these measured at fair value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
assets and related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
These economic Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows, with lives for intangible assets are estimated at between four and twenty amortisation made on a straight line basis: years for acquisition intangibles.
Acquired intangibles 4 - 20 years On the disposal of a previously acquired subsidiary, the attributable Developed software 3 - 12 years amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the gain Third party software 3 - 7 years or loss on disposal.
Transaction costs Property, plant and equipment The Group recognises transaction costs in prepayments at the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated balance sheet date, in respect of costs incurred on acquisitions depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis or disposals of subsidiaries.
Where it is considered probable that so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each the transaction will complete after the balance sheet date they are asset, over its expected useful life.
accounted for at the time of the transaction.
The residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant Contingent consideration and equipment are reviewed annually.
Where part or the entire amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially recorded Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful lives by major class is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts expected to of asset applied from the date of purchase are: be payable in the future.
Freehold and long leasehold property 50 years The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, Short leasehold property over lease term with corresponding adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill Computer and other equipment 4 - 10 years until the ultimate outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported under provisions in the balance sheet.
72 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www.
com Accounting policies Search Corporate governance Financial statements Impairment of assets Investments Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed Investments in associate companies and equity instruments that for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
Impairment losses recognised in the income Goodwill and developed software not yet brought into use are statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed reviewed for impairment annually.
An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement.
for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an Financial liabilities and equity assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual at the lowest levels for which there are separately identi able cash interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank loans and overdrafts An asset is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic Bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value less bene ts are expected from its future use or disposal.
directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included The difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement, within finance costs, over the period of the borrowings.
Borrowings are Financial assets classi ed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional Financial assets are classi ed in the following categories: at fair right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after value through pro t or loss, loans and receivables and available the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss are financial Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently assets held for trading.
Derivatives are also classi ed as held for measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of financial assets at fair value Equity instruments through pro t or loss are included in the income statement in the Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity.
Incremental costs directly period in which they arise.
Financial assets at fair value through attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity pro t or loss are subsequently held at fair value.
as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any market and are carried at amortised cost.
directly attributable costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders until the shares Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from those Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting assets which are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured Trade and other receivables at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes method, less provision for impairment.
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, where they are not designated as hedging instruments, are recognised in the Where there is objective evidence that there is an impairment loss, income statement.
the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash ows discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative and other operating charges.
The carrying amount of a receivable is reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts through the use of an allowance account for trade receivables.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of further recovery.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against administrative and other operating charges in the income statement.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 73 Accounting policies Overview Business review Hedge accounting Onerous property contracts The business activities of the Group expose it to financial risks that Provision for onerous lease commitments on property contracts arise from changes in both foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
is based on an estimate of the net unavoidable lease and other The Group uses forward currency contracts and interest rate caps payments in respect of these properties including dilapidation to hedge these exposures.
In accordance with its treasury policy, costs.
These comprise rental and other property costs payable, the Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.
plus any termination costs, less any income expected to be derived from the properties being sublet.
The provisions are discounted The Group designates certain derivatives as either: at an appropriate rate to take into account the effect of the time value of money.
a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a rm commitment fair value hedges : Exceptional items b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset Where certain expense or revenue items recorded in a period or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow are material by their nature, size or incidence, these are disclosed hedge : or as exceptional within a separate line on the income statement.
c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Examples of items classi ed as exceptional include: Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that a pro t or loss on the disposal of a business: are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows are b restructuring costs including those associated with the recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is turnaround programme: and recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the item being hedged is a nonfinancial asset or liability then Cash and cash equivalents the gains or losses on the associated derivative that had previously Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, been recognised in equity are included in the measurement of the together with short-term highly liquid investments with an original asset or liability at the time it is recognised.
maturity of less than three months that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insigni cant change Conversely if the item being hedged is a financial asset or liability, in value.
any amounts arising from changes in fair value that are deferred in equity are subsequently recognised in the income statement Segmental reporting in the same accounting period in which the hedged item affects The Groups primary segment analysis is by business sector which net income.
re ects the basis on which operations are managed.
The business sectors are fide ned by distinctly separate product offerings or Hedge accounting of a transaction is discontinued when the hedging markets.
Geographical reporting is the secondary segmental instrument is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when the hedging analysis.
instrument no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
Inventories Under these circumstances any cumulative gain or loss on the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
hedging instrument, which has already been recognised in equity, Cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring inventories and is retained in equity until the transaction occurs.
However, if bringing them to their existing location and condition.
a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any net cumulative gain or loss that has already been recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
A derivative that is embedded in another financial instrument, or in a host contract, is treated as a separate derivative if its risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Under these circumstances the host contract is not carried at fair value but any unrealised gains or losses on the derivative are reported in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated no provision is recognised and the item is disclosed as a contingent liability where material.
