Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Overview Glossary 2009 Amenity HMRC Contents Percentage of sales Design, dcor, furniture and facilities that contribute to the Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
by region FY 2009 environment and atmosphere of a pub.
Overview 1 23% South East MAT 02 Chairmans statement AWT Average Weekly Take Moving annual total.
2 18% London The average sales per pub per week, calculated as total sales Operating and financial review 3 15% West Midlands divided by the average number of pubs trading during the period National Minimum Wage 04 Chief Executives review of the divided by the number of weeks in the period.
The minimum amount an employer must pay its employees as 4 10% North West market and strategy defined by law.
14 Corporate social responsibility 5 9% Yorkshire and Humberside BBPA 19 Key performance indicators 20 Financial review 8 6 6% South West British Beer & Pub Association.
Net worth 24 Risks and uncertainties The net assets of Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited disregarding any 7 5% East Midlands 10 28 Board of Directors and Executive Committee Brands formats intercompany loans within the securitised group.
8 5% Scotland Brands trade with the same name, signage, dcor and 5 product range.
Off-trade 4 Reports 9 4% Wales Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption 31 Directors report 7 10 4% Northern 35 Corporate governance statement Formats trade under individual pub names and signage but off the premises.
3 11 40 Audit Committee report consistent dcor and product range.
11 1% East Anglia 9 42 Remuneration report ONS 56 Independent auditors report to the 2 Cash flow from operations Office for National Statistics.
1 members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Net cash flow resulting directly from regular operations.
6 On-trade Financial statements EBITDA Any retail outlet which has a licence to sell alcohol for consumption 57 Group income statement Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation.
on the premises e. g. pubs, restaurants, nightclubs, clubs.
58 Group statement of recognised income and expense External costs Operating profit 59 Group balance sheet Costs influenced by outside factors, e. g. regulatory and Earnings before interest and tax.
60 Group cash flow statement energy costs.
61 Notes to the financial statements 95 Five year review Productivity 98 Mitchells & Butlers plc parent company FY 2008 Sales less hourly paid wages divided by the number of hours balance sheet The 52 week period ended 27 September 2008. worked.
99 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc FY 2009 Refinancing 100 Notes to the parent company The 52 week period ended 26 September 2009.
The repayment of an existing loan with the proceeds from financial statements a new loan.
FY 2010 Mitchells & Butlers has produced a Shareholder information The 52 week period ended 25 September 2010.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth 107 Shareholder information robust operational performance in The increase in sales performance of all managed pubs that were Gross margin trading for the two periods being compared, expressed as a challenging conditions.
The Company Gross profit divided by sales, expressed as a percentage.
Glossary has sold 129 million meals in the year 109 Glossary Gross profit Securitisation and grown average food sales per pub by Sales less cost of goods sold.
A means of raising finance secured on a particular group of assets and the associated cash flows derived from those assets.
Supported by a recent small upturn Gross profit in consumer confidence, the first eight Sales less cost of goods sold.
weeks of the new financial year have Gross profit started well.
The strength of the Groups Sales less cost of goods sold.
brands, locations, operational skills and cost management mean that we are well positioned for the year ahead.
Design and production CarnegieOrr Print Royle Print The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Front cover: The Red Lion For our latest financial information Ashington www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 109 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Annual report and Mitchells & Butlers online accounts 2009 Visit our websites for the latest updates Mitchells & Butlers comprehensive website gives you fast, direct access to a wide range of information about the Company, including the latest Annual report, investor news and press releases, brand information and links through to the brand websites, and our policy on responsible retailing.
You can also quickly find your nearest Mitchells & Butlers pub, wherever you are in the country.
com ecomms Annual report News releases www.
com news CSR Find a pub www.
com Our brands Harvester www.
co. uk Vintage Inns Toby Carvery www.
co. uk Crown Carveries Ember Inns www.
co. uk Many of our popular brands now have their own websites, Premium Country Dining Group helping our customers to find the information they need straight We operate many individual pubs and pub restaurants, offering away.
The latest menus, the most up-to-date news and the best customers a great choice of food and drink.
Our Premium Country food and drink offers are all available, plus the details of any Dining Group pubs are often beautiful, historic buildings where new openings.
the modern, tasteful dcor, the fresh, contemporary menu and well-chosen beers and wines combine to offer customers the best in high quality casual dining.
Each pub has its own website, for example www.
