Production statistics Production statistics Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Europe & International Containerboard Tonnes 1,768,696 1,926,829 Kraft paper Tonnes 841,378 814,187 2 Corrugated board and boxes Mm 1,697 2,104 Bag converting M units 3,303 3,536 2 Coating and release liners Mm 2,672 2,667 Uncoated fine paper Tonnes 1,470,381 1,452,058 Newsprint Tonnes 194,564 192,921 Total hardwood pulp Tonnes 873,844 804,686 Total softwood pulp Tonnes 1,773,265 1,827,980 External hardwood pulp Tonnes 40,041 126,479 External softwood pulp Tonnes 205,076 200,676 South Africa Containerboard Tonnes 238,915 251,944 Uncoated fine paper Tonnes 353,707 416,509 Woodchips Bone dry tonnes 273,526 780,932 Total hardwood pulp Tonnes 578,032 595,449 Total softwood pulp Tonnes 109,142 106,390 External hardwood pulp Tonnes 170,391 139,235 Mondi Packaging South Africa Packaging papers Tonnes 367,741 388,199 2 Corrugated board and boxes Mm 369 381 Total hardwood pulp Tonnes 30,861 32,499 Total softwood pulp Tonnes 15,966 18,215 Newsprint Joint Ventures attributable share Newsprint Tonnes 312,736 331,929 Aylesford Tonnes 191,035 200,540 Mondi Shanduka Newsprint MSN Tonnes 121,701 131,389 Total softwood pulp MSN Tonnes 72,105 86,464 Exchange rates Year ended Year ended 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Closing rates against the euro South African rand 10.67 13.07 Pounds sterling 0.89 0.95 Polish zloty 4.10 4.15 Russian rouble 43.15 41.28 US dollar 1.44 1.39 Czech koruna 26.47 26.87 Average rates for the period against the euro South African rand 11.68 12.06 Pounds sterling 0.89 0.80 Polish zloty 4.33 3.52 Russian rouble 44.12 36.45 US dollar 1.39 1.47 Czech koruna 26.44 24.97 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 175 Financial statements Additional information for Mondi plc shareholders Introduction Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of Mondi plcs articles of association Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Share capital Mondi plc has an authorised share capital of 3,177,608,605 ordinary shares of 20 euro cents each the Ordinary Shares, 50,000 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each the Preference Shares, 250,000,000 PLC Special Converting Shares of 20 euro cents each, the Special Rights Share of E1, the PLC Special Voting Share of E1, the UK DAN Share of E1 and the UK DAS Share of E1.
The shares are in registered form.
Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles and the Companies Acts, Mondi plc may purchase, or may enter into a contract under which it will or may purchase, any of its own shares of any class, including any redeemable shares.
Ordinary Shares Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Mondi plc may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of Mondi plc, in the opinion of the board, justifies such payment.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Mondi plcs shares from a person with a 0.25% or more interest in nominal value of the issued shares, if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide Mondi plc with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the shares.
Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of Mondi plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide Mondi plc with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
176 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of Mondi plc in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by Mondi plc, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully-paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall, within 30 days after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with Mondi plc, send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require.
Subject to the Companies Acts and regulations and applicable CREST rules, the directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of Mondi plc, or of other shareholders of shares in Mondi plc, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Some of the Mondi plc employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to such plan.
Preference Shares The rights and privileges attached to the Preference Shares are as follows: out of the profits available for distribution and resolved to be distributed, the holders of the Preference Shares shall be entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of shares to be paid in respect of each financial year or other accounting period of Mondi plc, to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend the Preferential Dividend.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 177 Shareholder information Additional information for Mondi plc shareholders continued On a return of capital on winding up, but not on a return of capital on any other class of shares of the company, otherwise than on a winding-up of the company, the holders of the Preference Shares shall be entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of any other class of shares, to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the Preference Shares held by them and the accrual if any of the Preferential Dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of the commencement of the winding up.
The holders of the Preference Shares shall only have the right to receive notice of any general meeting of Mondi plc: i if and when, at the date of the notice convening such meeting, the MPLC Preferential Dividend as defined in the Articles on such Preference Shares is six months or more in arrears: or ii if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the holders of the cumulative Preference Shares, or for the winding up of Mondi plc, in which case they shall only be entitled to vote on such resolution.
Shares required for the DLC structure Mondi SCS UK Limited, a UK trust company, specially formed for the purpose of the DLC structure, holds the PLC Special Voting Share, the PLC Special Converting Shares, the Special Rights Share, the UK DAN Share and the UK DAS Share.
These shares can only be transferred to another UK trust company, in limited circumstances.
The PLC Special Voting Share is a specially created share so that shareholders of both Mondi plc and Mondi Limited effectively vote together as a single decision-making body on matters affecting shareholders of both companies in similar ways, as set out in the Articles.
Prior to a change of control, approval of termination of the sharing agreement which regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency of Mondi plc, the PLC Special Converting Shares have no voting rights except in relation to a resolution proposing the i variation of the rights attaching to the shares or ii winding-up, and they have no rights to dividends.
The PLC Special Converting Shares are held on trust for the Mondi Limited ordinary shareholders.
The PLC Special Rights Share does not have any rights to vote or any right to receive any dividend or other distribution by Mondi plc, save in respect to capitalisation of reserves.
Mondi plc and Mondi Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Mondi plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS Share and UK DAN Share, which enable Mondi plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Mondi Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
Directors Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than four and no more than 20 in number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Mondi plc by way of qualification.
Mondi plc may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of directors.
At each annual general meeting held in each year one-third of the directors, or if their number is not a multiple of three then the number nearest to, but not less than, one-third, shall retire from office.
Any further directors to retire shall be those of the other directors subject to retirement by rotation who have been longest in office since their last election or re-election or, if later, deemed election or re-election and so that as between persons who became or were last re-elected directors on the same day, those to retire shall, unless they otherwise agree among themselves, be determined by lot.
In casting the lot, the provision that a director must also be a director of Mondi Limited and the corresponding provision of the Mondi Limited Memorandum and Articles shall be observed.
A retiring director shall be eligible for re-election.
178 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group The board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for reelection, but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of Mondi plc will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of Mondi plc.
The board may exercise all the powers of Mondi plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Mondi plc or of any third party.
Significant agreements: change of control The articles of association of both Mondi plc and Mondi Limited ensure that a person cannot make an offer for one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either Mondi plc or Mondi Limited serves written notice on the other at any time after either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both Mondi plc and Mondi Limited become subsidiaries of a third party, the agreements establishing the DLC structure will terminate.
All of Mondi plcs share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment of the Articles Any amendments to the Articles of Mondi plc may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
A special resolution will be put to the annual general meeting scheduled for 6 May 2010 to adopt a new set of articles of association of Mondi plc.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 179 Shareholder information
