Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups combined and consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
There are no differences for the Group in applying IFRS as issued by the IASB and the European Union EU and therefore the Group also complies with IFRS as endorsed by the EU.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the business review under the heading Going Concern.
Basis of consolidation Dual listed structure The Group has two separate legal parent entities, Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, which operate under a dual listed company DLC structure.
The substance of the DLC structure is such that Mondi Limited, and its subsidiaries, and Mondi plc, and its subsidiaries, operate together as a single economic entity through a sharing agreement, with neither parent entity assuming a dominant role.
Accordingly, Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are reported on a combined and consolidated basis as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
Subsidiary undertakings The combined and consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities, equity, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, and of their respective subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
All intragroup balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern operating and financial policy in order to gain economic benefits.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the years presented are included in the combined and consolidated income statement from the effective date of gaining control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into alignment with those used by the Group.
The interest of minority shareholders is initially stated as the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interests capital are allocated against the interests of the Group.
Should future profits accrue to any such loss-making entity, the Group will recover the losses incurred on behalf of the minority interest.
Once the losses are fully recovered, future profits will become allocable to the minority interest concerned.
Associates Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically, the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Where the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition exceeds the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is credited to the combined and consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
The Groups share of associates net income, presented net of tax, is based on financial statements drawn up to reporting dates that are either coterminous with that of the Groups or no more than three months prior to that date.
Where reporting dates are not coterminous, adjustments are made to an associates net income for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur after the associates reporting date.
The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post-acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long-term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the year in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 85 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Joint venture entities A joint venture entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows of jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the results of the joint venture entity on a line-by-line basis with similar items in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition Sale of goods Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is when title and insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location.
Sale of green energy and CO2 credits 2 Revenues generated from the sale of green energy and excess CO credits issued under international schemes are recorded as income within other net operating expenses in the combined and consolidated income statement when ownership rights pass to the buyer.
Investment income Interest income, which is derived from cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale investments, and loans and receivables, is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups right to receive payment has been established.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before the share of results of associates, investment income and finance costs.
Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon Identifiable net assets At the date of acquisition the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are recorded at their provisional fair values.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Cost of a business combination The cost of a business combination includes the fair value of assets provided, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity instruments issued by a Group entity, in exchange for control of an acquiree.
The directly attributable costs are also included in the cost of a business combination.
Goodwill Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is attributed to goodwill.
Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of associates.
86 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the cost of the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition negative goodwill, is credited to the combined and consolidated income statement in the year of acquisition.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, minority interests are initially recorded at the minorities proportion of the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Boards for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually on a consistent date during each financial year, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Impairments of goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Non-current non-financial assets excluding goodwill, deferred tax and retirement benefits surplus Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise land and buildings, property, plant and equipment and assets in the course of construction.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing the plant to the location and condition for its intended use and includes financing costs, up to the date of commissioning.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, and assets in the course of construction, over their estimated useful lives.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated down to their residual values at varying rates, on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives normally vary between three years and 20 years for items of plant and equipment to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed at least annually.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of cash cost and the present value of minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease.
These assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected useful lives of the assets.
Licences, other intangibles and research and development expenditure Licences and other intangibles are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives vary between three years and ten years.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Development costs are reviewed annually and are expensed if they do not qualify for capitalisation.
The amount of development costs, if applicable, that is recognised as an asset is amortised on a systematic basis over the economic life of the related development or five years, whichever is shorter.
If a project is abandoned during the development stage, the total accumulated expenditure is written off.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 87 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued The recoverable amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset, or cash-generating unit, is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset, or cash-generating unit, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment been recognised for the asset, or cash-generating unit, in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement immediately.
Owned forestry assets Owned forestry assets are measured at fair value.
The fair value is calculated by applying the expected selling price, less costs to harvest and deliver, to the estimated volume of timber on hand at each reporting date.
The estimated volume of timber on hand is calculated by applying the mean annual increment for each age class, by species, to the area under afforestation.
The product of these is then adjusted to present value by applying a current market determined pre tax discount rate.
Mature forestry assets are those plantations that are harvestable, while immature forestry assets have not yet reached that stage of growth.
Plantations are considered harvestable after a specific age depending on the species planted and regional considerations.
Changes in fair value are recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement within other net operating expenses.
At point of felling, the carrying value of forestry assets is transferred to inventory.
Directly attributable costs incurred during the year of biological growth and purchases of standing timber are capitalised and presented within cash flows from investing activities in the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets, and disposal groups, classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets, and disposal groups, are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when it is highly probable and the asset, or disposal group, is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale from the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment is reported through the combined and consolidated income statement as a special item.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative amounts are not adjusted.
Discontinued operations are classified as held for sale and are either a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that have been sold or are part of a single co-ordinated plan for disposal, or represent a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an operation has been identified as discontinued, or is reclassified as continuing, the comparative information is restated.
Current non-financial assets Inventory Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the first-in-firstout FIFO or weighted average cost basis, as appropriate.
Cost comprises direct materials and overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is defined as the selling price less any estimated costs to sell.
88 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Retirement benefits The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees as well as post-retirement medical plans.
Defined contribution plans For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the combined and consolidated income statement is the contributions paid or payable during the year.
Defined benefit and post-retirement medical plans For defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans, full actuarial valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit method and updates are performed for each financial year end.
The average discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency.
Pension plans assets are measured using year end market values.
Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in equity.
Any increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during the year is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets and the expected increase during the year in the present value of plan liabilities are included in investment income and interest expense respectively.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested or is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefits obligation recognised in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset retirement benefits surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to past service costs, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the relevant Groups schemes.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax charge, the movement in deferred tax and the South African Secondary Tax on Companies STC, which is a tax charge on dividends declared.
Current tax The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the combined and consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
The Group pays STC on dividends declared net of dividends received, based on the applicable STC rate.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition, other than in a business combination, of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor accounting profit.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 89 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the combined and consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Operating leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the combined and consolidated income statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group on inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element of the rental is charged against profit so as to produce a constant yearly rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, unless it is directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restoration, decommissioning and environmental costs An obligation to incur restoration and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a plant or landfill site.
Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, or as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged against profit over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their present values and charged against profits as the obligation arises.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash flow, or a change in the discount rate, are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current year.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the accounting policy for impairment testing.
Government grants Government grants relating to capital expenditure projects are treated as deferred income and released to the combined and consolidated income statement over the expected useful lives of the assets for which the government grants are provided.
90 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency transactions and translation Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions by companies comprising the Group are recorded in their functional currencies at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the combined and consolidated income statement for the year and are classified as either operating or financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Translation of overseas operations The Groups results are presented in euros the Groups presentation currency, the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year where these approximate the rates at the dates of transactions.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly in equity.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which overseas operations are disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of share awards is recognised concurrently as an expense and an adjustment to equity.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards granted, as adjusted for market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions where applicable.
Vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share awards that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the combined and consolidated income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups combined and consolidated statement of financial position when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial asset investments Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are either classified as available-for-sale or loans and receivables.
Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at fair value.
They are subsequently remeasured at each reporting date to fair value.
Any unrealised gains and losses are deferred in equity until an investment is disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity is included in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Loans and receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, together with short-term, highly liquid investments of a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short-term borrowings in current liabilities on the combined and consolidated statement of financial position.
Cash and cash equivalents in the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows and in the presentation of net debt are reflected net of overdrafts.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 91 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less allowance for any impairment as appropriate.
The allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, where the time value of money has a material impact, discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair value, net of direct transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Net debt Net debt is a non-GAAP measure and consists of short-term, medium and long-term borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents and current financial asset investments.
Borrowing costs Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds have been borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the construction period.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts in order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently held at fair value in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position within derivative financial instruments, and, when designated as hedges, are classified as current or non-current depending on the maturity of the derivative.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are classified as current, in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, even when their actual maturity is expected to be greater than one year.
Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that are not formally designated in hedge relationships are recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement and are classified within Operating profit or Net finance costs, depending on the type of risk that the derivative relates to.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in the Groups cash flow hedge reserve in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, amounts deferred in the Groups cash flow hedge reserve in equity are recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects profit or loss on a proportionate basis.
92 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the associated derivative are also recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Ineffective, expired, sold, terminated or exercised hedging instruments Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge relationship is revoked or the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity is included immediately in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Equity instruments, share issue costs, treasury shares and dividend payments Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract which evidences a residual interest in the net assets of an entity.
A financial instrument is treated by the Group as equity if: there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities on unfavourable terms: and the instrument is either a non-derivative which contains no contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares, or is a derivative which will be settled only by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets, for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
Share issue costs Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a deduction, net of applicable tax, from the proceeds.
An incremental share issue cost is one which would not have arisen if shares had not been issued.
Treasury shares The purchase by any Group entity of either Mondi Limiteds or Mondi plcs equity instruments results in the recognition of treasury shares.
The consideration paid is deducted from equity.
Where treasury shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects.
Dividend payments Dividend distributions to Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary equity holders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are declared and approved.
Final dividends are accrued when approved by both Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs ordinary equity holders at their respective annual general meetings and interim dividends are recognised when approved by the Boards.
Special items Special items are those material items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the combined and consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group and its businesses.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the financial years results and require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1.
Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group are classified as special operating items and include material impairment charges and material reversals of impairments and other items including material restructuring costs.
Non-operating special items include profits and losses on disposal of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 93 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent companies by the weighted average number of ordinary Mondi Limited and Mondi plc shares in issue during the year, net of treasury shares.
For this purpose, net profit is defined as the profit after tax and special items attributable to equity holders of the parent companies.
Diluted EPS For diluted EPS, the weighted average number of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as share awards granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease EPS.
The effect of anti-dilutive potential shares is excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS.
Underlying and headline EPS Underlying EPS excludes the impact of special items and is a non-GAAP measure.
It is included to provide an additional basis on which to measure the Groups earnings performance.
The presentation of headline EPS is mandated under the JSE Listings Requirements and is not necessarily a measure of sustainable earnings.
It is calculated in accordance with Circular 3 2009, Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Segmental reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-making body.
The chief operating decision-making body, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Groups executive committee.
New accounting policies, early adoption and future requirements Standards and Interpretations early adopted by the Group There were no Standards or Interpretations early adopted by the Group in the current year.
Standards, amendments to published Standards and Interpretations effective during 2009 Annual periods beginning Standard on or after Impact on the Group IFRS 1 AC 138 First-time Adoption of 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2 AC139 Share-based Payment 1 January 2009 The impact on the Group is that non-market vesting conditions, other than service and performance conditions, which have always been included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to vest, have now been included in the estimate of the fair value of the share awards granted.
The amendment did not have a material impact on the Group.
IFRS 7 AC 144 Financial Instruments: 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
Disclosures IFRS 8 AC 145 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 The impact of the changes is of a presentational and disclosure nature, resulting in minor presentation changes with the reportable segments remaining unchanged.
94 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Annual periods beginning Standard on or after Impact on the Group IAS 1 AC 101 Presentation of Financial 1 January 2009 The impact of the changes is of a presentational Statements and disclosure nature, with the most significant impact being the replacement of the statement of recognised income and expense by a statement of comprehensive income and the presentation of a complete statement of changes in equity.
The financial results have not been impacted in any way.
There has been no impact on the Group resulting from held for trading derivatives reclassified from current liabilities to non-current liabilities.
IAS 7 AC 118 Statement of Cash Flows 1 January 2009 The Group does not routinely sell items of property, plant and equipment which it holds for rentals to others and thus the amendment did not have any impact on the Group.
IAS 8 AC 103 Accounting Policies, Changes 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
in Accounting Policies and Errors IAS 10 AC 107 Events after the Balance 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
Sheet Date IAS 16 AC 123 Property, Plant and Equipment 1 January 2009 The Group does not routinely sell items of property, plant and equipment which it holds for rentals to others and thus the amendment did not have any impact on the Group.
IAS 18 AC 111 Revenue 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 19 AC 116 Employee Benefits 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 20 AC 134 Accounting for Government 1 January 2009 The amendment did not have an impact on the Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance Groups reported results as the Group does not receive loans from Government at below market interest rates.
IAS 21 AC 112 The Effects of Changes in 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Foreign Exchange Rates IAS 23 AC 114 Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 The Groups accounting policy already stipulates that such borrowing costs are capitalised, and consequently, this amendment has no impact on the Group.
IAS 27 AC 132 Consolidated and Separate 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Financial Statements IAS 28 AC 110 Investments in Associates 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 29 AC 124 Financial Reporting in 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Hyperinflationary Economies IAS 31 AC 119 Interests in Joint Ventures 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 95 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Annual periods beginning Standard on or after Impact on the Group IAS 32 AC 125 Financial Instruments: 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Presentation IAS 34 AC 127 Interim Financial Reporting 1 January 2009 The impact of the changes are of a presentational and disclosure nature, with the most significant impact being the replacement of the statement of recognised income and expense by a statement of comprehensive income and the presentation of a complete statement of changes in equity.
Furthermore, earnings per share information has been disclosed in the income statement.
IAS 36 AC 128 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 38 AC 129 Intangible Assets 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 39 AC 133 Financial Instruments: 1 January 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Recognition and Measurement IAS 40 AC 135 Investment Property 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
IAS 41 AC 137 Agriculture 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
IFRIC 13 AC 446 Customer Loyalty 1 July 2008 No impact on the Group.
Programmes IFRIC 15 AC 448 Agreements for the 1 January 2009 No impact on the Group.
Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 AC 449 Hedges of a Net 1 October 2008 No impact on the Group.
Investment in a Foreign Operation Amendments to IAS 39 AC 133, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRIC 9 AC 442, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, are effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009.
The amendments were a direct result of the previous amendment to IAS 39 AC 133, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and IFRS 7 AC 144, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, dealing with the reclassification of certain financial assets out of the fair value through profit and loss category.
The current amendments prohibit the reclassification of the host contract out of the fair value through profit and loss category if an entity is unable to separately measure the embedded derivative associated with the host contract on reclassification.
The amendment did not have an impact on the Group.
Circular 3 2009, Headline Earnings issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants is effective for all financial periods interim and or annual periods ending on or after 31 August 2009.
This circular supersedes Circular 8 2007 as it updated Circular 8 2007 with the amendments and revisions to International Financial Reporting Standards issued between June 2007 and April 2009.
The amendments did not have a material impact on the Groups headline earnings information.
96 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Standards, amendments to published Standards and Interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Annual periods beginning Standard on or after Impact on the Group IFRS 1 AC 138 First-time Adoption of 1 July 2009 No impact on the Group.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 AC 138 First-time Adoption of 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2 AC 139 Share-based Payment 1 July 2009 No impact on the Group.
IFRS 2 AC 139 Share-based Payment 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
IFRS 3 AC 140 Business Combinations 1 July 2009 There will be no impact with regards to existing business combinations.
The Group is unable to assess the impact of the application of the Standard in future as such an assessment can only be made on the basis of each individual business combination as and when it occurs.
IFRS 5 AC 142 Non-current Assets Held for 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 5 AC 142 Non-current Assets Held for 1 January 2010 No material impact on the Group.
Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRS 8 AC 145 Operating Segments 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
IAS 1 AC 101 Presentation of Financial 1 January 2010 No material impact on the Group.
Statements IAS 7 AC 118 Statement of Cash Flows 1 July 2009 The amendment is unlikely to impact the Groups results in the period of initial adoption, unless there is a transaction whereby control is changed but not lost.
IAS 7 AC 118 Statement of Cash Flows 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
IAS 10 AC 107 Events after the 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Balance Sheet Date IAS 12 AC 102 Income Taxes 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 17 AC 105 Leases 1 January 2010 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 18 AC 111 Revenue 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
IAS 27 AC 132 Consolidated and 1 July 2009 Unlikely to have a material impact on the Group, Separate Financial Statements however the main possible impact of the revision is the absorption of losses by non-controlling interests which will increase the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Group if there are losses realised in subsidiaries.
The change in level of control is unlikely to impact the financial results of the Group because the Group currently accounts for transactions where control is not lost as equity transactions.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 97 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Accounting policies continued Annual periods beginning Standard on or after Impact on the Group IAS 28 AC 110 Investments in Associates 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 31 AC 119 Interests in Joint Ventures 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 36 AC 128 Impairment of Assets 1 January 2010 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 38 AC 129 Intangible Assets 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 38 AC 129 Intangible Assets 1 January 2010 No material impact on the Group.
IAS 39 AC 133 Financial Instruments: 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 AC 133 Financial Instruments: 1 January 2010 No impact on the Group.
Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 9 AC 442 Reassessment of 1 July 2009 No material impact on the Group.
Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 16 AC 449 Hedges of a Net 1 July 2009 The Group does not hedge net investments in Investment in a Foreign Operation foreign operations, thus the amendment is expected to have no impact on the Group.
IFRIC 17 AC 450 Distributions of 1 July 2009 No impact on the Group.
Non-cash Assets to Owners IFRIC 18 AC 451 Transfers of 1 July 2009 No impact on the Group.
Assets from Customers Accounting estimates and critical judgements The preparation of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions which affect certain items reported in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position and the combined and consolidated income statement.
The disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities is also affected by the use of estimation techniques.
Although the estimates used are based on managements best knowledge of current circumstances and future events and actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and assumptions that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities within the next financial year are disclosed below.
Estimated residual values and useful economic lives The carrying values of certain tangible fixed assets are sensitive to assumptions relating to projected residual values and useful economic lives, which determine the depreciable amount and the rate at which capital expenditure is depreciated respectively.
The Group reassesses these assumptions at least annually or more often if there are indications that they require revision.
Estimated residual values are based on available secondary market prices as at the reporting date unless estimated to be zero.
Useful economic lives are based on the expected usage, wear and tear, technical or commercial obsolescence and legal limits on the usage of capital assets.
Estimated impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets For the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group incurred asset impairment costs of E88 million 2008: E106 million and goodwill impairment costs of E12 million 2008: E194 million.
The Group assesses annually whether goodwill and tangible fixed assets have suffered any impairment, in accordance with the stated Group accounting policy.
The recoverable amounts of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and tangible fixed assets are determined based on value-in-use calculations, which require the exercise of managements judgement across a limited range of input assumptions and estimates.
The principal assumptions used relate to the time value of money and expected future cash flows.
The Group assesses annually whether there are any indications that items of property, plant and equipment, including assets in the course of construction, have suffered any impairment.
Indications of impairment are inherently judgemental and may require management to assess both internal and external sources of information.
98 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 Accounting policies continued Fair value of owned forestry assets For the year ended 31 December 2009 the Group recorded a fair value adjustment of E28 million 2008: E46 million.
Forestry assets at 31 December 2009 totalled E251 million 2008: E214 million.
The Group determines the fair value based on the present value of expected net cash flows arising from its owned forestry assets discounted at a current market determined pre tax rate.
Management exercises judgement in the determination of the appropriate discount rate to apply and in the estimation of future net cash flows.
Future net cash flows are dependent upon inputs such as rotation age and net selling prices.
Retirement benefits At 31 December 2009 the retirement benefits asset was E8 million 2008: Enil and the retirement benefits obligation was E184 million 2008: E182 million.
The Groups scheme liabilities are sensitive to changes in various underlying actuarial assumptions set by management.
These assumptions include the discount and inflation rates to apply to scheme liabilities, the mortality rates to apply to scheme members, the long-term medical cost trend rates to apply to medical schemes and the rates of increase of future salaries.
Further details regarding the assumptions are set out in note 25.
2 Operating segments Identification of the Groups externally reportable operating segments The Groups externally reportable segments reflect the internal reporting structure of the Group, which is the basis on which resource allocation decisions are made by management in the attainment of strategic objectives.
The Group operates under two primary geographic regions reflecting its South African activities and assets, and its international, principally European, activities and assets.
These broad geographic regions are further split by product segments reflecting the management of the Group.
In addition the Group manages Mondi Packaging South Africa and the Merchant & Newsprint businesses separately and therefore these have been presented as separate segments.
Product revenues The material product types from which the Groups externally reportable segments derive both their internal and external revenues are presented as follows: 1 Operating segments Internal revenues External revenues Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper Uncoated fine paper Uncoated fine paper Pulp Pulp Newsprint Newsprint Corrugated Corrugated products Corrugated products Bags & Specialities Kraft paper & bags Kraft paper & bags Specialities South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper Uncoated fine paper Uncoated fine paper Pulp Pulp Woodchips Containerboard Corrugated products Corrugated products Mondi Packaging South Africa Corrugated products Corrugated products Recycled fibre Merchant & Newsprint businesses Newsprint Merchanting Newsprint Note: 1 The Group operates a  structure in order to benefit from economies of scale and to more effectively manage the risk of adverse price movements in key input costs.
Internal revenues are therefore generated across the supply chain.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 99 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Operating segments continued Measurement of operating segment revenues, profit or loss, assets and non-current nonfinancial assets Management has regard to certain operating segment measures in making resource allocation decisions and monitoring segment performance.
The operating segment measures required to be disclosed under IFRS 8 adhere to the recognition and measurement criteria presented in the Groups accounting policies.
In addition, the Group has presented certain non-GAAP measures by segment to supplement the users understanding.
All intra-group transactions are conducted on an arms length basis.
The Groups measure of net segment assets includes the allocation of retirement benefits surpluses and deficits on an appropriate basis.
The measure of segment results exclude, however, the financing effects of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
In addition, the Groups measure of net segment assets does not include an allocation for derivative assets and liabilities, nonoperating receivables and payables and assets held for sale and associated liabilities.
The measure of segment results, however, includes the effects of certain movements in these unallocated balances.
The Groups geographic analysis is presented on the following level: continental: or sub-continental: or by individual country if greater than 10% of the Group total.
Operating segment revenues Internal and external segment revenues are presented, and reconciled to Group revenue, as follows: 2009 2008 Segment Internal External Segment Internal External 1 2 1 2 E million revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 1,351 130 1,221 1,565 174 1,391 Corrugated 1,041 36 1,005 1,555 58 1,497 Bags & Specialities 1,787 24 1,763 2,138 22 2,116 Intra-segment elimination 80 80 99 99 Total Europe & International 4,099 110 3,989 5,159 155 5,004 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 386 120 266 474 174 300 Containerboard 121 119 2 134 132 2 Intra-segment elimination 29 29 21 21 Total South Africa 478 210 268 587 285 302 Mondi Packaging South Africa 498 25 473 474 27 447 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 528 1 527 593 1 592 Segments total 5,603 346 5,257 6,813 468 6,345 Inter-segment elimination 346 346 468 468 Group total 5,257 5,257 6,345 6,345 Notes: 1 Inter-segment transactions are conducted on an arms length basis.
2 The description of each business segment reflects the nature of the main products they sell.
In certain instances the business segments sell minor volumes of other products and due to this reason the external segment revenues will not necessarily reconcile to the external revenues by each type of product presented below.
100 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 2 Operating segments continued The Groups external revenues for each type of product are presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Products Corrugated products 1,357 1,849 Uncoated fine paper 1,195 1,313 Kraft paper & bags 886 1,066 Specialities 731 854 Merchanting 468 487 Newsprint 208 162 Pulp 129 160 Woodchips 61 105 1 Other 222 349 Group total 5,257 6,345 Note: 1 Revenues derived from product types that are not material are classed as other.
An analysis of the Groups external revenues attributed to the countries, where material, and the continents in which external 1 customers are located, is presented as follows : E million 2009 2008 Revenues Africa 2 South Africa 644 616 Rest of Africa 196 251 Africa total 840 867 Western Europe Germany 641 745 2 United Kingdom 367 483 Rest of Western Europe 1,292 1,704 Western Europe total 2,300 2,932 Emerging Europe 1,105 1,326 Russia 387 430 North America 157 183 South America 17 31 Asia and Australia 451 576 Group total 5,257 6,345 Notes: 1 Revenues by customer location are presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information for the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
2 These revenues, which total E1,011 million 2008: E1,099 million, are attributable to the countries in which the Groups parent entities are domiciled.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 101 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Operating segments continued An analysis of the Groups external revenues attributed to the countries, where material, and the continents from which revenues are derived, is presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Revenues Africa 1 South Africa 948 1,015 Rest of Africa 13 15 Africa total 961 1,030 Western Europe Austria 1,010 1,226 1 United Kingdom 244 344 Rest of Western Europe 855 1,202 Western Europe total 2,109 2,772 Emerging Europe 1,413 1,691 Russia 519 569 North America 104 120 Asia and Australia 151 163 Group total 5,257 6,345 Note: 1 These revenues, which total E1,192 million 2008: E1,359 million, are attributable to the countries in which the Groups parent entities are domiciled.
There are no external customers which account for more than 10% of the Groups total external revenue.
102 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 2 Operating segments continued Operating segment operating profit loss Segment operating profits losses are presented, and reconciled to Group profit loss before tax, as follows: Segment operating Segment operating profit loss before profit loss after 1 1 2 special items special items E million 2009 2008 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 146 126 144 98 Corrugated 2349 27 62 Bags & Specialities 82 159 34 58 Total Europe & International 251 334 151 22 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 16 75 6 75 Containerboard 16 36 16 36 Total South Africa 32 111 10 111 Mondi Packaging South Africa 36 28 43 28 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 12 7 7 Corporate & other businesses 37 39 38 41 Segments total 294 441 166 83 Net profit loss on disposals see note 5 3 27 Impairment of assets held for sale see note 5 8 2 Net income from associates see note 14 2 2 2 2 Net finance costs see note 6 114 159 114 159 Group profit loss before tax from continuing operations 182 284 49 103 Notes: 1 Management reviews underlying segment operating profit loss on a regular basis as part of the resource allocation decision-making process and the ongoing assessment of segment performance.
Accordingly, segment underlying operating profits losses are presented here.
Segment profits losses stated after operating special items are also presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information for the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
2 Special items are disclosed per operating segment in note 5.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 103 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Operating segments continued The significant components of operating profit loss, as stated before operating special items, are presented by segment as follows: Depreciation and Rentals under amortisation operating leases E million 2009 2008 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 93 95 7 4 Corrugated 64822532 Bags & Specialities 107 112 10 12 Total Europe & International 264 289 42 48 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 36 34 5 7 Containerboard 8 7 Total South Africa 44 41 5 7 Mondi Packaging South Africa 26 25 7 8 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 16 17 7 7 Corporate & other businesses 1 1 1 1 Group and segments total 351 373 62 71 Green energy Fair value gains sales and disposal on owned forestry of emissions credits assets E million 2009 2008 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 4 4 Corrugated 2123 Bags & Specialities 22 26 Total Europe & International 47 53 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 28 46 Total South Africa 28 46 Group and segments total 47 53 28 46 Other than depreciation and amortisation, and fair value movements on forestry assets which are disclosed above, there are no other significant non-cash items recorded within Group operating profit loss as stated before operating special items.
104 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 2 Operating segments continued Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets, liabilities and net assets are presented, and reconciled to their respective Group totals, as follows: 2009 2008 Net Net Segment Segment segment Segment Segment segment 1 2 3 1 2 3 E million assets liabilities assets assets liabilities assets Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 1,671 177 1,494 1,589 177 1,412 Corrugated 1,071 199 8721,171 241 930 Bags & Specialities 1,531 309 1,222 1,632 315 1,317 Intra-segment elimination 33 33 76 76 Total Europe & International 4,240 652 3,588 4,316 657 3,659 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 804 92 712 720 80 640 Containerboard 150 22 128 139 19 120 Intra-segment elimination 6 6 2 2 Total South Africa 948 108 840 857 97 760 Mondi Packaging South Africa 432 97 335 371 70 301 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 263 69 194 283 87 196 Corporate & other businesses 3 1 4 13 3 10 Inter-segment elimination 74 74 101 101 3 Segments total 5,812 851 4,961 5,739 813 4,926 Unallocated: Investment in associates 6 6 5 5 Deferred tax assets liabilities 29 316 287 36 292 256 4 Other non-operating assets liabilities 211 577 366 307 615 308 Group trading capital employed 6,058 1,744 4,314 6,087 1,720 4,367 Financial asset investments 27 27 19 19 5 Net debt 123 1,640 1,517 155 1,845 1,690 Group net assets 6,208 3,384 2,824 6,261 3,565 2,696 Notes: 1 Segment assets are operating assets and at 31 December 2009 consist of property, plant and equipment of E3,847 million 2008: E3,611 million, intangible assets of E308 million 2008: E323 million, forestry assets of E251 million 2008: E214 million, retirement benefits surplus of E8 million 2008: Enil, inventories of E617 million 2008:E684 million and operating receivables of E781 million 2008: E907 million.
2 Segment liabilities are operating liabilities and at 31 December 2009 consist of non-interest bearing current liabilities of E648 million 2008: E619 million, restoration and environmental provisions of E19 million 2008: E12 million and provisions for post-retirement benefits of E184 million 2008: E182 million.
3 Management reviews net segment assets on a regular basis as part of the resource allocation decision-making process and the ongoing assessment of segment performance.
Accordingly, net segment assets and segment liabilities are also presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information to the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
4 Other non-operating assets consist of derivative assets of E7 million 2008: E73 million, current income tax receivables of E16 million 2008: E32 million, other nonoperating receivables of E152 million 2008: E197 million and assets held for sale of E36 million 2008: E5 million.
Other non-operating liabilities consist of derivative liabilities of E51 million 2008: E77 million, non-operating provisions of E66 million 2008: E52 million, current income tax liabilities of E55 million 2008: E53 million, other non-operating liabilities of E396 million 2008: E430 million and liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale of E9 million 2008: E3 million.
5 Overdrafts of E86 million 2008: E80 million are included in borrowings.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 105 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Operating segments continued An analysis of the Groups non-current non-financial assets, segment assets and net segment assets attributed to the countries, where material, and the continents in which the assets are located, is presented as follows: 2009 2008 NonNoncurrent current nonNetnonNet financial Segment segment financial Segment segment 1 2 3 1 2 3 E million assets assets assets assets assets assets Africa 4 South Africa 1,074 1,346 1,163 948 1,195 1,043 Rest of Africa 10 19 16 6 11 10 Africa total 1,084 1,365 1,179 954 1,206 1,053 Western Europe Austria 398 735 529 582 947 769 4 United Kingdom 162 231 173 160 247 179 Rest of Western Europe 401 605 492 490 799 653 Western Europe total 961 1,571 1,194 1,232 1,993 1,601 Emerging Europe Poland 600 704 631 448 554 500 Slovakia 544 588 543 543 607 548 Rest of Emerging Europe 380 524 425 365 539 462 Emerging Europe total 1,524 1,816 1,599 1,356 1,700 1,510 Russia 742 865 836 503 618 585 North America 46 74 65 52 86 75 Asia and Australia 49 121 88 51 136 102 Group total 4,406 5,812 4,961 4,148 5,739 4,926 Notes: 1 Non-current non-financial assets are non-current assets and consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and forestry assets, but excludes retirement benefits surplus, deferred tax assets and non-current financial assets.
2 Segment assets are operating assets and consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, forestry assets, retirement benefits surplus, inventories and operating receivables.
3 Net segment assets and segment assets by location are also presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information to the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
4 These non-current non-financial assets, segment assets and net segment assets, which total E1,236 million, E1,577 million and E1,336 million respectively 2008:E1,108 million, E1,442 million and E1,222 million respectively, are attributable to the countries in which the Groups parent entities are domiciled.
106 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 2 Operating segments continued Capital expenditure cash payments and the additions to the Groups non-current non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets and retirement benefits surplus, are presented by operating segment as follows: Capital Additions to expenditure non-current 1 2 cash payments non-financial assets E million 2009 2008 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 191 266 257 284 Corrugated 195199178246 Bags & Specialities 81 136 83 185 Total Europe & International 467 601 518 715 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 22 37 59 79 Containerboard 4 7 4 7 Total South Africa 26 44 63 86 Mondi Packaging South Africa 17 38 17 44 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 7 10 10 13 Corporate & other businesses 6 1 Group and segments total 517 693 614 859 Notes: 1 Management reviews segment capital expenditure cash payments on a regular basis as part of the resource allocation decision-making process and the ongoing assessment of segment performance.
Accordingly, segment capital expenditure cash payments are presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information to the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
Capital expenditure cash payments exclude business combinations, interest capitalised and purchases of intangible and forestry assets.
2 Additions to non-current non-financial assets reflect cash payments and accruals in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and forestry assets and include interest capitalised as well as additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
3 Operating profit loss Operating profit loss for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting: E million 2009 2008 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment see note 12 341 364 Amortisation of intangible assets see note 11 10 9 Rentals under operating leases see note 2 62 71 Research and development expenditure 8 10 Restructuring closure costs excluding special items 3 7 Operating special items see note 5 128 358 Net foreign currency losses gains see note 7 13 22 Green energy sales and disposal of emissions credits 47 53 Fair value gains on forestry assets see note 13 28 46 Felling costs see note 13 50 43 Profit on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 4 6 Total revenue, as defined under IAS 18, Revenue, consisting of Group revenue, sale of green energy and disposal of emissions credits, interest income and dividend income, was E5,313 million 2008: E6,421 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 107 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 3 Operating profit loss continued An analysis of auditors remuneration is presented as follows: 2009 2008 E million UK Other Total UK Other Total Fees payable to the auditors for the audit of Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs annual accounts and the Group consolidation 0.4 0.2 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.6 Fees payable to the auditors and their associates for other services to the Group The audit of Mondi Limiteds and Mondi plcs subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 3.0 3.4 0.3 3.4 3.7 Total audit fees 0.8 3.2 4.0 0.7 3.6 4.3 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.2 Tax services tax advisory 0.8 0.8 0.1 0.7 0.8 tax compliance 0.1 0.1 Other services 1.2 0.2 1.4 0.3 0.4 0.7 Total non-audit fees 1.5 1.2 2.7 0.5 1.2 1.7 Total fees 2.3 4.4 6.7 1.2 4.8 6.0 4 Employee numbers and costs The closing number of employees, excluding associates employees and including a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities, was: hundreds 2009 2008 By business segment Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 98 104 Corrugated 64 76 Bags & Specialities 73 85 Total Europe & International 235 265 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 14 18 Containerboard 32 Total South Africa 17 20 Mondi Packaging South Africa 37 36 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 11 12 Corporate & other businesses 11 Group and segments total 301 334 108 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 4 Employee numbers and costs continued The principal locations of employment were: hundreds 2009 2008 South Africa and rest of Africa 57 59 Western Europe 71 88 Emerging Europe 68 76 Russia 92 98 North America 77 Asia and Australia 66 Total 301 334 Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: E million 2009 2008 Within operating costs Wages and salaries 678 744 Social security costs 131 151 Defined contribution pension plan costs see note 25 17 15 Defined benefit pension plan costs see note 25 7 7 Share-based payments see note 29 5 9 Total within operating costs 838 926 Within operating special items Demerger arrangements see note 5 and note 29 3 9 Personnel costs relating to restructuring see note 5 21 32 Total within operating special items 24 41 Within net finance costs Post-retirement medical plan costs see note 25 4 5 Defined benefit pension plan costs see note 25 5 3 Total within net finance costs 9 8 Total 871 975 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 109 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 4 Employee numbers and costs continued 1 Compensation for the Boards and key management E million 2009 2008 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 5.5 5.6 Non-executive directors 1.1 1.3 Post-employment benefits 1.1 1.0 Termination payments 1.3 1.4 Social security 0.2 0.5 Share-based payments 2.3 2.3 2 Costs associated with demerger 2.0 4.5 Total 13.5 16.6 Notes: 1 In accordance with IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, and includes directors both executive and non-executive of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, see note 39 for further details.
2 Costs associated with the demerger from Anglo American plc relate to charges associated with awards arising as a result of the demerger demerger share awards, transitional share awards, Co-Investment Plan and Deferred Mondi Cash Pool.
1 5 Special items E million 2009 2008 Operating special items Goodwill impairments Corrugated Europe & International 74 Bags & Specialities Europe & International 120 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 12 Total goodwill impairments 12 194 Asset impairments Uncoated Fine Paper Europe & International 1 Corrugated Europe & International 44 28 Bags & Specialities Europe & International 14 70 Uncoated Fine Paper South Africa 19 Mondi Packaging South Africa 1 Total asset impairments 78 99 Restructuring and closure costs Restructuring and closure costs excluding related personnel costs Uncoated Fine Paper Europe & International 5 15 Corrugated Europe & International 2 1 Bags & Specialities Europe & International 25 8 Personnel costs relating to restructuring Uncoated Fine Paper Europe & International 7 8 Corrugated Europe & International 3 6 Bags & Specialities Europe & International 8 18 Uncoated Fine Paper South Africa 3 Total restructuring and closure costs 43 56 Note: 1 Special items by operating segment are presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information for the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
110 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 1 5 Special items continued E million 2009 2008 Demerger arrangements Uncoated Fine Paper Europe & International 4 Corrugated Europe & International 1 2 Bags & Specialities Europe & International 1 1 Corporate & other businesses 1 2 Total demerger arrangements 3 9 Proceeds on insurance Mondi Packaging South Africa 8 Total operating special items 128 358 Non-operating special items Profit loss on disposals Corrugated Europe & International 3 27 Net profit loss on disposal 3 27 Asset impairment of assets held for sale Corrugated Europe & International 8 2 Total non-operating special items 5 29 Total special items before tax and minority interests 133 387 Tax 64 Minority interests 1 Total special items attributable to equity holders of the parent companies 128 383 Note: 1 Special items by operating segment are presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information for the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Operating special items The continuation of the difficult trading conditions throughout most of the year led management to take early and decisive action to restructure the cost base.
Uncoated Fine Paper Europe & International Management has rationalised forestry operations at Syktyvkar resulting in costs of E7 million reduced by the gain on the sale of an asset written off during the Szolnok closure of E5 million.
Corrugated Given the continued difficult trading conditions in the corrugated packaging sector Mondi responded by closing, or restructuring, certain high cost operations.
This has resulted in restructuring and closure costs of E5 million and asset impairment costs in certain German and Austrian recycled containerboard mills and a UK corrugated plant of E44 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 111 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 5 Special items continued Year ended 31 December 2009 continued Bags & Specialities Market related down time has been taken due to overcapacity created by a significant slowdown in demand.
Various restructuring initiatives have been implemented in response to the lower demand environment.
As a result the Group has incurred restructuring and closure costs of E33 million relating to the mothballing of the Stambolijski mill and the closure of various converting operations.
Associated asset impairment costs of E14 million were incurred.
Uncoated Fine Paper South Africa The South Africa Division announced the mothballing of its PM32 paper machine which represents a 120,000 tonne capacity reduction.
An asset impairment of E19 million was recognised together with restructuring costs of E3 million.
Mondi Packaging South Africa Insurance proceeds in excess of net book value were received to replace fire damaged assets at a subsidiary of Mondi Packaging South Africa amounting to E8 million, while an impairment of E1 million of the damaged assets was recognised.
Merchant & Newsprint businesses Europapier has suffered from declining sales prices and volumes, resulting in an impairment of goodwill of E12 million.
Demerger arrangements Equity settled demerger arrangements for senior management have also resulted in additional share based payments of E3 million.
Non-operating special items The Group disposed of the four remaining corrugated converting operations in France resulting in a profit of E3 million and a held for sale asset impairment of E1 million.
The sale of the Italian recycled containerboard plant, Cartonstrong, and the related sheetfeeder gave rise to a held for sale asset impairment of E7 million.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Operating special items The sharp decline in demand experienced in a number of markets, together with the recognition that we are entering a prolonged global economic slowdown has resulted in management taking a number of actions.
Management has closed and restructured operations in its European businesses resulting in costs of E56 million and asset impairment costs of E99 million.
Management has also impaired goodwill by E194 million.
Equity settled demerger arrangements for senior management have also resulted in additional share-based payments of E9 million.
Non-operating special items The Group disposed of certain of its businesses in the Corrugated business unit for a loss of E27 million, together with an impairment of assets held for sale of E2 million.
112 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 6 Net finance costs Net finance costs and related foreign exchange gains losses are presented below: E million 2009 2008 Investment income Interest income Bank deposits, loan receivables and other 8 22 Available-for-sale investments 1 Past due receivables 1 Total interest income 9 23 Expected return on defined benefit arrangements see note 25 17 20 Foreign currency losses see note 7 1 28 Impairment of financial assets excluding trade receivables 1 1 Other financial income 21 Total investment income 26 15 Financing costs Interest expense Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 158 169 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1 1 Interest on defined benefit arrangements see note 25 26 28 Total interest expense 185 198 Less: interest capitalised see note 12 45 24 Total financing costs 140 174 Net finance costs 114 159 The weighted average interest rate applicable to interest on general borrowings capitalised for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 10.2% 2008: 13.0%, mainly related to loans in Poland and Russia.
7 Foreign exchange The amounts of net foreign currency gains losses credited charged to the combined and consolidated income statement is presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Net operating foreign currency losses gains see note 3 13 22 Net financing foreign currency losses see note 6 1 28 Net foreign currency losses 14 6 8 Tax charge a Analysis of charge for the year from continuing operations E million 2009 2008 UK corporation tax at 28% 2008: 28.5% 1 5 Overseas tax 51 66 Current tax excluding tax on special items 52 61 Deferred tax in respect of the current period excluding tax on special items 15 30 Deferred tax in respect of prior period over provision 9 9 Total tax charge before special items 58 82 Current tax on special items 1 2 Deferred tax on special items 7 2 Total tax credit on special items see note 5 6 4 Total tax charge 52 78 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 113 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 8 Tax charge continued b Factors affecting tax charge for the year The Groups effective rate of tax before special items for the year ended 31 December 2009, calculated on profit before tax before special items and including net income from associates, is 32% 2008: 29%.
The Groups total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the tax on the Groups profit loss before tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%, as follows: E million 2009 2008 Profit loss before tax 49 103 Tax on profit loss before tax calculated at UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 14 29 Tax effect of net income from associates, calculated at 28% 2008: 28.5% 1 1 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 27 86 Intangible amortisation and non-qualifying depreciation 4 8 Non-deductible expenses included in special items 22 80 Other non-deductible expenses 9 14 Non-taxable income 1 Other non-taxable income 1 Temporary difference adjustments 20 38 1 Changes in tax rates 1 8 Current year tax losses and other temporary differences not recognised 30 55 Prior period tax losses and other temporary differences not previously recognised 9 9 Other adjustments 7 16 Current tax prior period adjustments 3 South African Secondary Tax on Companies 1 3 Effect of differences between local rates and UK rate 13 22 Other adjustments 23 Tax charge for the year 52 78 Note: 1 Principally relates to adjustments made to deferred tax balances based on substantively enacted future reductions in corporation tax rates in Israel 2008: relates to reductions in corporation tax rates in Russia and South Africa.
IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the combined and consolidated income statement.
The Groups share of its associates tax is therefore not presented within the Groups total tax charge.
The associates tax charge included within Net income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2009 is E1 million 2008: E1 million.
114 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 9 Dividends Dividends paid to the equity holders of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc are presented on a combined basis.
E million 2009 2008 Current year interim dividend 13 38 1 Final dividend proposed for year ended 31 December 36 26 Paid to minority interests 920 Note: 1 The dividend proposed is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc scheduled for 6 May 2010 and therefore has not been included as a liability in the Groups combined and consolidated statement of financial position.
E cents per share 2009 2008 Interim dividend paid 2.5 7.7 Final dividend proposed 7.0 5.0 Total dividends paid and proposed 9.5 12.7 10 Earnings per share E cents per share 2009 2008 Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent companies Basic EPS 6.5 41.6 3 3 Diluted EPS 6.5 41.6 1 Underlying earnings for the financial year Basic EPS 18.7 33.9 Diluted EPS 18.2 33.4 2 Headline earnings for the financial year Basic EPS 11.4 20.3 Diluted EPS 11.1 20.0 Notes: 1 The Boards believe that underlying EPS provides a useful additional non-GAAP measure of the Groups underlying performance.
Underlying EPS excludes the impact of special items.
2 The presentation of Headline EPS is mandated under the JSE Listings Requirements.
Headline earnings has been calculated in accordance with Circular 3 2009, Headline Earnings, as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Please see the reconciliation presented below.
3 Diluted EPS is consistent with Basic EPS as the impact of potential ordinary shares is anti-dilutive.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 115 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 10 Earnings per share continued The calculation of basic and diluted EPS, basic and diluted underlying EPS, and basic and diluted headline EPS is based on the following data: Earnings E million 2009 2008 Loss for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent companies 33 211 Special items: operating 128 358 Net profit loss on disposals 3 27 Impairment of assets held for sale 8 2 Related tax 6 4 Related minority interest 1 Underlying earnings 95 172 Profit on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 4 6 Special items: demerger arrangements 3 9 Special items: restructuring and closure cost 43 56 Impairments not included in special items 10 Related tax 32 Headline earnings 58 103 Number of shares million 2009 2008 1 Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding 508 507 2 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 13 8 Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding 521 515 Notes: 1 The basic number of ordinary shares outstanding represents the weighted average number in issue for Mondi Limited and Mondi plc for the year, as adjusted for the weighted average number of treasury shares held during the year.
2 Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
116 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 11 Intangible assets Licences and other 2 2009 E million Goodwill intangibles Total Cost At 1 January 611 84 695 Additions 55 Disposal of assets 51 2 53 Reclassifications 18 18 Currency movements 2 4 2 At 31 December 558 109 667 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 328 44 372 Charge for the year 10 10 Impairments see note 5 12 1 13 Disposal of assets 51 2 53 Reclassifications 16 16 Currency movements 1 1 At 31 December 289 70 359 Net book value at 31 December 269 39 308 Licences and other 2 2008 E million Goodwill intangibles Total Cost At 1 January 616 75 691 1 Acquired through business combinations 19 9 28 Additions 77 Disposal of assets 2 2 Currency movements 24 5 29 At 31 December 611 84 695 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 134 37 171 Charge for the year 9 9 Impairments see note 5 194 194 Disposal of assets 2 2 At 31 December 328 44 372 Net book value at 31 December 283 40 323 Notes: 1 The increase in goodwill related to the excess of the purchase price of subsidiaries acquired over the provisional fair value of their net assets and an adjustment of Enil 2008: E7 million to the provisionally stated goodwill previously reported as at 31 December 2008 and as at 31 December 2007 respectively see note 30.
2 Licences and other intangibles mainly relate to software development costs, and customer relationships and contractual arrangements capitalised as a result of business combinations.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 117 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 11 Intangible assets continued Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash-generating units CGUs which reflect how it is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
Value-in-use calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets covering a three year period that are based on the latest forecasts for revenue and cost as approved by the Boards.
Cash flow projections beyond three years are based on internal management forecasts and assume a growth rate not exceeding gross domestic product for the respective countries.
Zero percent growth rates are assumed in perpetuity for most of the businesses given the commodity nature of the majority of the products i. e. volume growth is assumed to be offset by real price declines.
Pre tax cash flow projections are discounted using a pre tax discount rate of 8.83% 2008: 8.86%, adjusted by 0%-3% reflecting the economic and political risks of the specific location that are not reflected in the underlying cash flows specific to each CGU.
Perpetuity maintenance capital expenditure has been assumed at 60% of depreciation.
Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are significantly affected by a number of factors, including market and production estimates, together with economic factors such as prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of production costs and future capital expenditure.
In respect of the CGUs that have not been impaired, sensitivity analyses of a 1% increase in discount rate or a 1% decrease in cash flows were performed and this did not give rise to an impairment.
The following impairments of goodwill have been recognised in the years ended 31 December: E million 2009 2008 Europe & International Corrugated Converting & Recycled Containerboard 74 Kraft Paper 50 Consumer Flexibles 30 Bag Converting 20 Coating & Release 20 Total Europe & International 194 Merchant & Newsprint businesses Europapier 12 Total goodwill impairments 12 194 118 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 11 Intangible assets continued Carrying value of goodwill at the reporting dates are as follows: E million 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 37 37 Kraft Paper 83 83 Bag Converting 51 54 Consumer Flexibles 17 17 Coating & Release 18 19 Total Europe & International 206 210 Mondi Packaging South Africa 63 61 Merchant & Newsprint businesses Europapier 12 Total goodwill 269 283 12 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and 1 2009 E million buildings equipment Other Total Cost At 1 January 1,352 5,178 901 7,431 Additions 98 201 270 569 Disposal of assets 9 74 14 97 Disposal of businesses see note 31 19 74 2 95 Other reclassifications 29 139 302 134 Currency movements 24 220 21 265 At 31 December 1,475 5,590 874 7,939 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 566 2,976 278 3,820 Charge for the year 35 281 25 341 2 Impairments 13 71 4 88 Disposal of assets 6 72 12 90 Disposal of businesses see note 31 6 50 1 57 Other reclassifications 30 68 16 114 Currency movements 5 91 8 104 At 31 December 577 3,229 286 4,092 Net book value at 31 December 898 2,361 588 3,847 Notes: 1 Other includes E519 million of assets in the course of construction, which are not yet depreciated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1.
2 This includes E78 million asset impairments reflected in special items and E10 million of other impairments.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 119 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and Plant and 1 2008 E million buildings equipment Other Total Cost At 1 January 1,425 5,486 628 7,539 Acquired through business combinations see note 30 10 17 27 Additions 20 66 668 754 Disposal of assets 11 65 18 94 Disposal of businesses see note 31 36 75 5 116 Other reclassifications 24 163 274 87 Currency movements 80 414 98 592 At 31 December 1,352 5,178 901 7,431 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 559 2,997 252 3,808 Charge for the year 36 295 33 364 2 Impairments 14 75 17 106 Disposal of assets 8 48 15 71 Disposal of businesses see note 31 9 48 2 59 Other reclassifications 93 3 90 Currency movements 26 202 10 238 At 31 December 566 2,976 278 3,820 Net book value at 31 December 786 2,202 623 3,611 Notes: 1 Other includes E540 million of assets in the course of construction, which are not yet depreciated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1.
2 This includes E99 million asset impairments reflected in special items and E7 million of other impairments.
Included in the cost above is E45 million of interest 2008: E24 million incurred on qualifying assets which has been capitalised during the year.
Tax relief on interest capitalised is based on the tax rates prevailing in the jurisdiction in which the interest is incurred.
The net book value and depreciation charges relating to assets held under finance leases amount to E16 million 2008: E8 million and E3 million 2008: E1 million respectively.
The Groups obligation under finance leases see note 21 is secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: E million 2009 2008 Freehold 863 783 Leasehold long 2 Leasehold short less than 50 years 33 3 Total land and buildings 898 786 A register of South African land and buildings and of leased assets is open for inspection upon prior arrangement at the registered office of Mondi Limited.
120 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 13 Forestry assets E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 214 224 Capitalised expenditure 37 37 1 Fair value gains 28 46 Felling costs 50 43 Acquisition of assets 36 Disposal of assets 1 Reclassifications see note 32 30 Currency movements 49 55 At 31 December 251 214 Note: 1 Forestry assets are revalued to fair value less estimated costs to sell each reporting year in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1.
The fair value is calculated on the basis of future expected cash flows discounted using a discount rate relevant in the local country, based on a pre tax real yield on long-term bonds over the last five years.
Forestry assets comprise forests with the maturity profile disclosed in the table below: E million 2009 2008 Mature 118 92 Immature 133 122 Total forestry assets 251 214 14 Investments in associates E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 56 Net income from associates 22 Dividends received 2 2 Other 1 1 At 31 December 6 5 The Groups total investment in associates comprises: E million 2009 2008 1 Equity 65 Total investments in associates 6 5 Note: 1 At 31 December 2009, there is E0.5 million of goodwill in respect of associates 2008: E0.4 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 121 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 Investments in associates continued The Groups share of the summarised financial information of principal associates, all of which are unlisted, is as follows: E million 2009 2008 Total non-current assets 11 Total current assets 910 Total current liabilities 2 5 Total non-current liabilities 2 1 1 Share of associates net assets 6 5 Total revenue 28 29 Total operating costs 25 26 Income tax expense 1 1 Share of associates profit for the financial year 2 2 Note: 1 There are no material contingent liabilities for which the Group is jointly or severally liable at the reporting dates presented.
15 Joint ventures The Groups share of the summarised financial information of joint venture entities that are proportionately consolidated in the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements is presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Total non-current assets 132 125 Total current assets 48 46 Total current liabilities 44 48 Total non-current liabilities 54 50 Share of joint venture entities net assets, proportionately consolidated 82 73 Revenue 143 146 Total operating costs 135 143 Net finance costs 2 3 Income tax expense 1 2 Share of joint venture entities profit loss for the financial year 5 2 Details of principal joint ventures are set out in note 40.
122 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 16 Financial asset investments Financial asset investments held by the Group are accounted for using the available-for-sale and loans and receivables categories, as defined by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and in accordance with the Group accounting policy set out in note 1.
All financial asset investments are non-current as the repayment terms are greater than one year.
Loans and Available-for-sale 1 2 2009 E million receivables investments Total At 1 January 5 14 19 Movements in fair value 1 1 Impairments 1 1 Additions 6 1 7 Repayments from related parties 1 1 Repayments other 1 1 Other 22 Currency movements 1 1 At 31 December 10 17 27 Loans and Available-for-sale 1 2 2008 E million receivables investments Total At 1 January 6 19 25 Movements in fair value 1 1 Additions 2 2 Repayments other 1 1 Disposals 1 1 Reclassifications 1 1 Currency movements 2 2 4 At 31 December 51419 Notes: 1 Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1.
2 Available-for-sale investments are held at fair value in accordance with the accounting policy set out in note 1.
17 Inventories E million 2009 2008 Raw materials and consumables 304 318 Work in progress 53 66 Finished products 260 300 Total inventories 617 684 Of the total carrying value of inventories as at 31 December 2009, E96 million 2008: E90 million is held at net realisable value.
The write-downs of inventories to net realisable value, recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2009, total E18 million 2008: E21 million.
The aggregate reversal of previous write-downs, recognised as a reduction in the amount of inventories expensed for the year ended 31 December 2009, total E3 million 2008: E2 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 December 2009 totals E2,307 million 2008: E2,853 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 123 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 18 Trade and other receivables E million 2009 2008 Trade receivables a 824 941 Allowance for doubtful debts b 61 50 Net trade receivables 763 891 Other receivables 152 197 Prepayments and accrued income 18 16 1 Total trade and other receivables 933 1,104 Note: 1 Includes non-current trade and other receivables of Enil 2008: E4 million.
The fair values of trade and other receivables are not materially different to the carrying values presented.
a Trade receivables: credit risk The Groups exposure to the credit risk inherent in its trade receivables and the associated risk management techniques that the Group deploys in order to mitigate this risk are discussed in note 38. Credit periods offered to customers vary according to the credit risk profiles of, and invoicing conventions established by participants operating in, the various markets in which the Group operates.
Interest is charged at appropriate market rates on balances which are considered overdue in the relevant market.
To the extent that recoverable amounts are estimated to be less than their associated carrying values, impairment charges have been recorded in the combined and consolidated income statement and the carrying values have been written down to their recoverable amounts.
The total gross carrying value of these impaired trade receivables as at the reporting date is E73 million 2008:E71 million and the associated aggregate impairment is E61 million 2008: E50 million.
Included within the Groups aggregate trade receivables balance are specific debtor balances with customers totalling E95 million 2008: E87 million which are past due but not impaired as at the reporting date.
The Group has assessed these balances for recoverability and believes that their credit quality remains intact.
An ageing analysis of these past due trade receivables is provided as follows: Trade receivables past due by Less than More than E million 1 month 1-2 months 2-3 months 3 months Total Carrying value at 31 December 2009 59 16 7 13 95 Carrying value at 31 December 2008 57 15 6 9 87 Included within the Groups aggregate trade receivables balances are debtor balances with customers totalling E6 million 2008:E8 million where contractual terms have been renegotiated to extend the credit period offered.
The Group believes that these balances are fully recoverable and therefore no impairment loss has been recognised.
The Group has entered into certain debt factoring arrangements in which the financial counterparties retain recourse in the event of debtor default.
Accordingly, the Group continues to recognise the underlying trade receivables transferred until cash settlement occurs.
A concurrent financing liability is also recognised in respect of the obligation to transfer economic benefit to financial counterparties.
At the reporting date, trade receivables with a value of E3 million 2008: E1 million are subject to such factoring arrangements and an associated financial liability of E1 million 2008: E1 million has been recognised.
124 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 18 Trade and other receivables continued b Movement in the allowance account for bad and doubtful debts E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 50 37 Increase in allowance recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement 11 17 Reclassifications 1 1 Currency movements 1 3 At 31 December 61 50 19 Financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets are presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 1 Trade and other receivables 933 1,104 1 Cash and cash equivalents 123 155 2 Financial asset investments 27 19 3 Derivative assets 773 Total financial assets 1,090 1,351 Notes: 1 The fair values of trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents are not materially different to the carrying values presented.
2 The fair values of available-for-sale investments represent the published prices of the securities concerned 2009: E17 million, 2008: E14 million.
Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost 2009: E10 million, 2008: E5 million.
3 Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Appropriate valuation methodologies are employed to measure the fair value of derivative financial instruments see note 22.
20 Trade and other payables E million 2009 2008 Trade payables 462 462 Amounts owed to related parties 1 1 Tax and social security 69 56 Other payables 156 171 Accruals and deferred income 335 345 Total trade and other payables 1,023 1,035 The fair values of trade and other payables are not materially different to the carrying values presented.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 125 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 21 Borrowings 2009 2008 E million Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Secured Bank loans and overdrafts 54 127 181 63 140 203 Other loans 1 1 2 Obligations under finance leases 4 16 20 4 20 24 Total secured 59 144 203 67 160 227 Unsecured Bank loans and overdrafts 159 1,144 1,303 298 1,124 1,422 Other loans 1 133 134 13 183 196 Total unsecured 160 1,277 1,437 311 1,307 1,618 Total borrowings 219 1,421 1,640 378 1,467 1,845 The maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings, presented on an undiscounted future cash flows basis, is included as part of a review of the Groups liquidity risk within note 38.
Obligations under finance leases The maturity of obligations under finance leases is: E million 2009 2008 Not later than one year 55 Later than one year but not more than five years 11 14 More than five years 812 Future value of finance lease liabilities 24 31 Future finance charges 4 7 Present value of finance lease liabilities 20 24 Financing facilities Group liquidity is provided through a range of committed debt facilities which are in excess of the Groups short-term cash needs.
The principal loan arrangements in place include the following: E1.55 billion Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility UKRCF The UKRCF is a five year multi-currency revolving credit facility which was signed on 22 June 2007.
This facility was initially drawn down to refinance existing debt obligations outstanding to the Anglo American plc group prior to demerger.
Interest is charged on the balance outstanding at a market-related rate linked to LIBOR.
The Group uses interest rate swaps to limit its exposure to adverse movements in LIBOR see note 38.
E170 million Export Credit Agency Facility ECAF The ECAF is used to part finance expansionary capital expenditure in Russia.
The facility has an amortising repayment until 2020 and interest is charged on the balance outstanding at a market-related rate linked to LIBOR.
E115 million European Investment Bank Facility EIBF The EIBF is used to part finance expansionary capital expenditure at Mondi Swiecie in Poland.
The facility has an amortising repayment until 2017 and interest is charged at a fixed rate of interest.
In addition to the facilities above, the Group has committed facilities amounting to South African rand 3.6 billion in South Africa.
126 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 21 Borrowings continued The Groups borrowings as at 31 December are analysed by nature and source currency as follows: Non-interest Total Floating rate Fixed rate bearing carrying 2009 E million borrowings borrowings borrowings value Fair value Euro 817 164 1 982 983 South African rand 342 48 12 402 402 Sterling 10 10 10 US dollar 4 6 10 11 Polish zloty 51 115 166 150 Czech koruna 46 46 46 Other currencies 15 9 24 23 Carrying value 1,285 342 13 1,640 Fair value 1,285 327 13 1,625 Non-interest Total Floating rate Fixed rate bearing carrying 2008 Emillion  value Euro 996 256 2 1,254 1,248 South African rand 338 38 11 387 387 Sterling 7 7 7 US dollar 11 25 36 38 Polish zloty 2 47 49 49 Other currencies 86 26 112 113 Carrying value 1,440 392 13 1,845 Fair value 1,440 390 12 1,842 In addition to the above, the Group swaps euro debt into other currencies through the foreign exchange market as disclosed in note 38.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
The Group has pledged certain financial assets as collateral against certain borrowings.
The fair value of these assets as at 31 December 2009 is E146 million 2008: E207 million.
The Group is entitled to receive all cash flows from these pledged assets.
Further, there is no obligation to remit these cash flows to another entity.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 127 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 22 Derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 Notional Notional E million Asset Liability amount Asset Liability amount Current derivatives 1 Held for trading 2 Foreign exchange contracts 7 19 1,102 65 6 964 Interest rate swaps 1 263 3 414 Total held for trading 7 20 1,365 65 9 1,378 Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts 1 8 19 244 Interest rate swaps 9 350 1 150 Commodity price derivatives 3 7 9 22 Total cash flow hedges 12 358 8 29 416 Total current derivative financial instruments 7 32 1,723 73 38 1,794 Non-current derivatives Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts 1 Interest rate swaps 19 391 24 638 Commodity price derivatives 10 13 Total cash flow hedges 19 391 34 652 3 Call option 5 5 Total non-current derivative financial instruments 19 391 39 657 Notes: 1 There were no held for trading derivative assets and liabilities, classified as current in accordance with IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, which are due to mature after more than one year, for both the years presented.
2 Of the E1,102 million 2008: E964 million aggregate notional amount presented, E900 million 2008: E716 million relates to the economic hedging of foreign exchange exposures on short-term intercompany funding balances, which are fully eliminated on consolidation.
3 Mondi Packaging South Africa has a call option to purchase a minority interest within the next two to eight years.
The call option was valued based on an EBITDA multiple multiplied by the forecasted EBITDA for the next eight years discounted back to present value.
The notional amounts presented represent the aggregate face value of all foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity price derivatives outstanding at the year-end.
They do not indicate the contractual future cash flows of the derivative instruments held or their current fair value and therefore do not indicate the Groups exposure to credit or market risks.
Note 38 provides an overview of the Groups management of financial risks through the selective use of derivative financial instruments and also includes a presentation of the undiscounted future contractual cash flows of the derivative contracts outstanding at the reporting date.
128 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 22 Derivative financial instruments continued Hedging Cash flow hedges The Group designates certain derivative financial instruments as cash flow hedges.
The fair value losses gains reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve during the year and matched against the realisation of hedged risks in the combined and consolidated income statement were as follows: E million 2009 2008 Group revenue 13 15 Other net operating expenses 14 Net finance costs 19 3 Total 46 12 The fair value gains losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve during the year and matched against the realisation of hedged risks within non-current non-financial assets were as follows: E million 2009 2008 Property, plant and equipment 52 Total 5 2 There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss arising on cash flow hedges for both the years presented.
Held for trading derivatives E million 2009 2008 Net fair value losses gains on held for trading derivatives 73 48 Held for trading derivatives are used primarily to hedge foreign exchange balance sheet exposures.
Held for trading derivative losses gains have corresponding gains losses which arise on the revaluation of the foreign exchange balance sheet exposures being hedged.
The Group chose not to apply hedge accounting to the held for trading derivatives.
23 Provisions Restoration Acquired Long and  service 2009 E million environmental liabilities costs awards Other Total At 1 January 12 1 14 14 23 64 Charged to combined and 1 consolidated income statement 9 17 1238 Reclassifications 8 1 9 Released to combined and consolidated income statement 1 1 1 3 Amounts applied 2 16 1 7 26 Currency movements 1 2 3 At 31 December 19 22 14 30 85 Note: 1 Net of unwound discounts.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 129 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 23 Provisions continued Restoration Acquired Long and  service 2008 Emillion  At 1 January 15 5 10 14 20 64 Charged to combined and 1 consolidated income statement 317 11 Acquired through business combinations see note 30 2 2 Reclassifications 9 6 15 Released to combined and consolidated income statement 1 1 2 Amounts applied 2 7 1 6 16 Currency movements 1 1 1 3 6 At 31 December 12 1 14 14 23 64 Note: 1 Net of unwound discounts.
Maturity analysis of total provisions on a discounted basis: E million 2009 2008 Current 40 25 Non-current 45 39 Total provisions 85 64 The restoration and environmental provision represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation to rehabilitate environmental disturbances caused by production operations.
A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs.
These costs are expected to be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Included within other provisions are amounts relating to onerous contracts and employee benefits.
Of these, E18 million 2008:E10 million are due to be incurred within the next 12 months.
The residual E12 million 2008: E13 million will be incurred over a period longer than one year.
All non-current provisions are discounted using a discount rate relevant in the local countries, based on a pre tax real yield on longterm bonds over the last five years.
Acquired contingent liabilities arise from business combinations made in 2007.
130 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 24 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 36 32 Charged to the combined and consolidated income statement 10 5 Charged to the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income 6 Acquired through business combinations see note 30 3 Reclassifications 14 Currency movements 2 4 At 31 December 29 36 Deferred tax liabilities E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 292 322 Charged to the combined and consolidated income statement 11 14 Charged to the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income 7 11 Acquired through business combinations see note 30 4 Disposal of businesses see note 31 1 Reclassifications 5 7 Currency movements 33 43 At 31 December 316 292 The amount of deferred tax provided in the accounts is presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Deferred tax assets 1 Tax losses 40 31 Other temporary differences 11 5 Total deferred tax assets 29 36 Deferred tax liabilities Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 312 313 Fair value adjustments 73 89 Tax losses 51 48 Other temporary differences 18 62 Total deferred tax liabilities 316 292 Note: 1 Based on forecast data, the Group believes that there will be sufficient future taxable profits available in the relevant jurisdictions to utilise these tax losses.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 131 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 24 Deferred tax continued The amount of deferred tax credited charged to the combined and consolidated income statement is presented as follows: E million 2009 2008 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 25 5 Fair value adjustments 10 37 Tax losses 218 Other temporary differences 14 5 Total credit charge 1 19 The current expectation regarding the maturity of deferred tax balances is: E million 2009 2008 Deferred tax assets Recoverable within 12 months 83 Recoverable after 12 months 21 33 Total deferred tax assets 29 36 Deferred tax liabilities Payable after 12 months 316 292 Total deferred tax liabilities 316 292 The Group has the following amounts in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised due to the unpredictability of future profit streams or gains against which these could be utilised: E million 2009 2008 Tax losses revenue 1,763 955 Tax losses capital 16 20 Other temporary differences 26 Total 1,781 981 Included in unrecognised tax losses, as at 31 December 2009, are losses of E1 million 2008: E4 million that will expire within one year, E62 million 2008: E10 million that will expire between one and five years, and E148 million 2008: E40 million that will expire after five years.
A further E1,568 million 2008: E921 million of losses have no expiry date.
No liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
At 31 December 2009, the aggregate amount of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was E3.0 billion 2008:E2.6 billion.
25 Retirement benefits The Group operates post-retirement defined contribution and defined benefit plans for the majority of its employees.
It also operates post-retirement medical arrangements in South Africa.
The accounting policy for pensions and post-retirement benefits is included in note 1.
Defined contribution plans The assets of the defined contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds.
The charge in respect of these plans of E17 million 2008: E15 million is calculated on the basis of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year.
There were no material outstanding or prepaid contributions recognised in relation to these plans as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
132 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 25 Retirement benefits continued Defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical arrangements The majority of the post-retirement defined benefit plans are funded.
The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice throughout the world.
The unfunded pension plans are principally in Europe.
The post-retirement medical arrangements provide health benefits to retired employees and certain dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain criteria.
The majority of these plans are unfunded.
There are no plan assets in respect of post-retirement medical plans.
The Groups defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare arrangements, for the five years ended 31 December 2009, are summarised as follows: 2009 2008 Southern Southern E million Africa Europe Total Africa Europe Total Assets Defined benefit plans in surplus 8 8 Liabilities Defined benefit plans in deficit funded and unfunded 124 124 132 132 Post-retirement medical plans 60 60 50 50 Total liabilities 60 124 184 50 132 182 Experience adjustments On plan liabilities 5 4 1 14 3 17 On plan assets 11 10 21 4 30 34 Total experience adjustments 6 14 20 18 33 51 1 Income statement charge Defined benefit pension plan costs 1 11 12 10 10 Post-retirement medical plan costs 4 4 5 5 Total income statement charge 5 11 16 51015 Note: 1 Includes service costs, past service costs and curtailments where applicable, interest payable on scheme liabilities and expected returns on scheme assets.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 133 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 25 Retirement benefits continued 2007 2006 Southern Southern Emillion  Assets Defined benefit plans in surplus 8 3 11 5 2 7 Liabilities Defined benefit plans in deficit funded and unfunded 129 129 143 143 Post-retirement medical plans 71 71 77 77 Total liabilities 71 129 200 77 143 220 Experience adjustments On plan liabilities 4 1 3 35 35 On plan assets 6 2 4 22 2 24 Total experience adjustments 10 3 7 57 2 59 2005 Southern E million Africa Europe Total Assets Defined benefit plans in surplus 1 1 Liabilities Defined benefit plans in deficit 188 188 Post-retirement medical plans 98 98 Total liabilities 98 188 286 Experience adjustments On plan liabilities 14 11 25 On plan assets 13 60 47 Total experience adjustments 27 49 22 134 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 25 Retirement benefits continued Retirement benefits surplus obligation The amounts recognised in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows: 2009 2008 Southern Southern E million Africa Europe Total Africa Europe Total Present value of unfunded obligations 60 109 169 50 114 164 Present value of funded obligations 145 120 265 119 116 235 Present value of pension plan liabilities 205 229 434 169 230 399 Fair value of plan assets 177 105 282 135 100 235 Deficit 28 124 152 34 130 164 Surplus restrictions 24 24 16 2 18 Deficit on pension and postretirement medical plans 52 124 176 50 132 182 Amounts reported in the statement of financial position Assets Retirement benefits surplus 8 8 Liabilities Retirement benefits obligation: 1 Defined benefit pension plans 124 124 132 132 Post-retirement medical plans 60 60 50 50 Total retirement benefits obligation 60 124 184 50 132 182 Note: 1 Underlying obligations are grossed up for the surpluses that exist.
Independent qualified actuaries carry out full valuations every three years using the projected credit unit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2009.
The market value of assets is used to determine the funding level of the plans and is sufficient to cover 106% 2008: 100% of the benefits which have accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
Companies within the Group are paying contributions at rates agreed with the schemes trustees and in accordance with local actuarial advice and statutorial provisions.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members.
Consequently, it is expected that the Groups share of contributions will increase as the schemes members age.
The aggregate benefit obligation in respect of the unfunded plans at 31 December 2009 is E109 million 2008: E114 million.
The total loss, net of applicable tax, recognised in equity relating to experience movements on scheme liabilities and plan assets and actuarial assumption changes for the year ended 31 December 2009 is a gain of E9 million 2008: gain of E14 million.
The cumulative total recognised since 1 January 2004 is a gain of E3 million.
The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations, at the beginning of a reporting period, for returns over the entire life of the related pension obligations.
Expected returns may vary from one reporting period to the next in line with changes in long-run market sentiment and updated evaluations of historic fund performance.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, the actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension schemes was a gain of E38 million 2008: loss of E17 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 135 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 25 Retirement benefits continued Income statement The amounts recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement are as follows: 2009 2008 PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Total Pension medical Total E million plans plans plans plans plans plans Analysis of the amount charged credited to operating profit Current service costs 8 8 9 9 Past service costs 1 1 Other amounts credited to profit and loss curtailments and settlements 2 2 2 2 Total within operating costs 7 7 7 7 Analysis of the amount charged credited to net finance costs on plan liabilities 1 Expected return on plan assets 17 17 20 20 2 Interest costs on plan liabilities 22 4 26 23 5 28 Net charge to other net finance costs 5 4 9 358 Total charge to income statement 12 4 16 10 5 15 Notes: 1 Included in investment income see note 6.
2 Included in interest expense see note 6.
Assured healthcare trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the combined and consolidated income statement.
A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects on the post-retirement medical plans: E million 1% increase 1% decrease Effect on the aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost 1 1 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 6 5 136 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 25 Retirement benefits continued Actuarial assumptions The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension costs under IAS 19, Employee Benefits, are detailed below: 2009 2008 Southern Southern % Africa Europe Africa Europe Defined benefit pension plan Average discount rate for plan liabilities 9.1 5.2-5.7 7.2 4.0-6.1 Average rate of inflation 5.6 1.8-10.0 4.0 1.1-9.0 Average rate of increase in salaries 6.9 1.8-5.5 5.3 1.5-6.0 Average rate of increase of pensions in payment 5.6 1.8-5.0 4.0 1.7-5.0 Average long-term rate of return on plan assets 9.7 4.0-6.4 7.5 4.0-6.3 Post-retirement medical plan Average discount rate for plan liabilities 9.1 N A 7.2 N A Expected average increase of healthcare costs 7.1 N A 5.5 N A The assumption for the average discount rate for plan liabilities is based on AA corporate bonds, which are of a suitable duration and currency.
Mortality assumptions The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 2009 2008 Southern Southern years Africa Europe Africa Europe Retiring today: Males 17.66 13.10-22.70 17.56 17.63-19.82 Females 22.01 16.20-25.20 21.91 20.88-23.52 Retiring in 20 years: Males 19.50 15.80-25.70 19.40 18.10-22.45 Females 23.80 18.90-28.10 23.70 21.10-25.78 The mortality assumptions have been based on published mortality tables in the relevant jurisdictions.
The market value of the pension assets in these plans and the long-term expected rate of return as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 are detailed below: Southern Africa Europe Total Rate of Fair Rate of Fair Fair return value return value value 2009 % E million % E million E million Equity 11.72 69 7.10 49 118 Bonds 4.66 52 52 Other 8.46 108 5.35 4 112 Fair value of plan assets 177 105 282 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 137 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 25 Retirement benefits continued Southern Africa Europe Total Rate of Fair Rate of Fair Fair return value return value value 2008 % E million % E million E million Equity 9.88 55 7.19 35 90 Bonds 5.25 45 45 Other 5.98 80 4.54 20 100 Fair value of plan assets 135 100 235 Movement analysis The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Fair value of plan assets E million 2009 2008 At 1 January 235 323 Expected return on plan assets 17 20 Actuarial gains losses 21 37 Disposal of businesses see note 31 11 Contributions paid by employer 5 2 Contributions paid by other members 1 1 Benefits paid 18 13 Reclassifications 14 11 Currency movements 35 61 At 31 December 282 235 The changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2009 2008 PostPostretirement retirement Pension medical Total Pension medical Total E million plans plans plans plans plans Plans At 1 January 349 50 399 407 71 478 Current service cost 8 8 9 9 Disposal of businesses see note 31 3 3 12 12 Past service costs and effects of settlements and curtailments 1 1 2 2 Interest cost 22 4 26 23 5 28 Actuarial losses gains 10 1 9 1 6 7 Contributions paid by other members 1 1 1 1 Benefits paid 29 4 33 25 3 28 Reclassifications 16 16 11 11 Currency movements 33 11 44 62 17 79 At 31 December 374 60 434 349 50 399 138 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 26 Other comprehensive income Reclassification adjustments included in the combined and consolidated income statement and the tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income are as follows: 2009 2008  Tax of-tax tax Tax of-tax E million amount expense amount amount benefit amount Cash flow hedges: 26 6 20 61 15 46 Fair value losses arising during the year 15 47 Less: Reclassification adjustments for losses gains included in the combined and consolidated income statement 46 12 Less: Adjustments for amounts transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items 5 2 Actuarial gains losses and surplus restriction on post-retirement benefit schemes 7 1 6 17 2 15 Gains losses arising on availablefor-sale investments 1 1 1 1 Exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations 118 118 246 246 Share of other comprehensive 1 income of associates 1 1 1 1 Total other comprehensive income 153 7 146 326 17 309 Attributable to: Minority interests 10 1 9 8 1 7 Equity holders of the parent companies 143 6 137 318 16 302 Note: 1 Share of other comprehensive income of associates consists of associates share of exchange gains losses on translation of foreign operations.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 139 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 27 Asset values per share Asset values per share are disclosed in accordance with the JSE Listings Requirements.
Net asset value per share is defined as net assets divided by the combined number of ordinary shares in issue as at the reporting dates presented less treasury shares held.
Tangible net asset value per share is defined as the net assets less intangible assets divided by the combined number of ordinary shares in issue as at the reporting dates presented less treasury shares held.
2009 2008 Net asset value per share E 5.55 5.34 Tangible net asset value per share E 4.94 4.70 28 Share capital and share premium Authorised Number of shares R million Mondi Limited R0.20 ordinary shares 250,000,000 50 Mondi Limited R0.20 special converting shares 650,000,000 130 Authorised Number of shares E million Mondi plc E0.20 ordinary shares 3,177,608,605 636 Mondi plc E0.20 special converting shares 250,000,000 50 There has been no change to the authorised share capital of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc since listing on the respective stock exchanges on 3 July 2007.
140 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 28 Share capital and share premium continued Called up, allotted and fully paid E million Number of Share Share 2009 shares capital premium Total Mondi Limited R0.20 ordinary shares issued on the JSE 146,896,322 3 532 535 1 Mondi plc E0.20 ordinary shares issued on the LSE 367,240,805 74 74 Total ordinary shares in issue 514,137,127 77 532 609 2 Mondi Limited R0.20 special converting shares 367,240,805 8 8 Mondi plc E0.20 special converting shares 146,896,322 29 29 Total special converting shares 514,137,127 37 37 Total shares 1,028,274,254 114 532 646 Called up, allotted and fully paid E million Number of Share Share 2008 shares capital premium Total Mondi Limited R0.20 ordinary shares issued on the JSE 146,896,322 3 532 535 1 Mondi plc E0.20 ordinary shares issued on the LSE 367,240,805 74 74 Total ordinary shares in issue 514,137,127 77 532 609 2 Mondi Limited R0.20 special converting shares 367,240,805 8 8 Mondi plc E0.20 special converting shares 146,896,322 29 29 Total special converting shares 514,137,127 37 37 Total shares 1,028,274,254 114 532 646 Notes: 1 Mondi plc also issued 50,000 5% cumulative 1 preference shares in 2007.
The Group classifies these preference shares as a liability, and not as equity instruments, since they contractually obligate the Group to make cumulative dividend payments to the holders.
The dividend payments are treated as a finance cost rather than distributions.
2 The special converting shares are held on trust and do not carry dividend rights.
The special converting shares provide a mechanism for equality of treatment on termination for both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc ordinary equity holders.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 141 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 29 Share-based payments Mondi share awards The Group has set up its own share-based payment arrangements to incentivise employees, as well as certain transitional schemes to compensate relevant employees for the benefits foregone on outstanding Anglo American plc schemes.
The Group also operates equity-settled demerger arrangements for directors and key management to provide for an orderly transition into the post-demerger period.
In addition, the Co-Investment Plan has been created for the chief executive officer of the Group.
All of these schemes are settled by the award of ordinary shares in either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the awards made under these schemes in cash, except for the reimbursement of dividends foregone on BSP awards that vest.
The demerger arrangements were instituted prior to, and in anticipation of, the demerger.
The associated fair value charge, attributable to the vesting period elapsed, has been recognised from 1 January 2007.
The fair value charges resulting from all other share awards made by the Group, attributable to the vesting periods elapsed, have been recognised from the effective date of grant.
The total fair value charge in respect of all the Mondi share awards granted during the year ended 31 December 2009 is made up as follows: E million 2009 2008 Demerger see note 5 39 Transitional BSP 1 BSP 2007 12 LTIP 2007 1 Co-Investment Plan 1 BSP 2008 22 LTIP 2008 2 BSP 2009 1 LTIP 2009 1 1 Total share-based payment expense 8 18 Note: 1 The fair value charges associated with the transitional LTIP share award scheme are immaterial for both the years presented.
142 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 29 Share-based payments continued The fair values of the share awards granted under the Mondi schemes are calculated with reference to the facts and assumptions presented below: Mondi Limited Transitional BSP Transitional LTIP BSP 2007 LTIP 2007 Date of grant 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 1 Vesting period years 1.8 1.8 2.8 2.8 2223 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % 3333 Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant % N A N A N A 33 4 4 5 6 Fair value per instrument R 61.33 61.33 64.23 59.12 Demerger Mondi Limited arrangements BSP 2008 LTIP 2008 BSP 2009 Date of grant 3 July 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2008 27 March 2009 1 Vesting period years 2333 2232 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % nil 5 5 5 Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at 7 date of grant % N A N A 33 N A 4 5 6 5 Fair value per instrument R 59.88 56.39 57.59 18.87 Mondi Limited LTIP 2009 Date of grant 27 March 2009 1 Vesting period years 3 3 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % 5 Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant % 75 6 Fair value per instrument R 19.26 Notes: 1 The number of years continuous employment service condition.
2 The service condition must be satisfied in order for vesting to occur.
3 The service condition must be satisfied in order for vesting to occur.
In addition, the level of vesting is determined by the congruence of market and Group performance outcomes with specified market-based and internal Group performance targets.
4 The average mid-market share price for the month ended 3 August 2007 has been used to quantify the fair value of each instrument granted the base fair value, as adjusted for the present value of anticipated dividends foregone over future vesting periods.
5 Accrued entitlements to dividends on BSP awards are accounted for on a cash-settled basis and are included in the fair value estimate.
6 The base fair value has been adjusted for  market-based performance conditions.
7 At 31 December 2008 it was assumed that the expected outcome would be 89%.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 143 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 29 Share-based payments continued Mondi plc Transitional BSP Transitional LTIP BSP 2007 LTIP 2007 Date of grant 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 1 Vesting period years 1.8 1.8 2.8 2.8 2223 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % 3333 Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant % N A N A N A 33 5 5 6 7 Fair value per instrument 4.43 4.43 4.64 4.27 Demerger Co-Investment Mondi plc arrangements Plan BSP 2008 LTIP 2008 Date of grant 3 July 2007 3 July 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2008 1 Vesting period years 2433 2423 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % nil nil 5 5 Expected outcome of meeting performance 8 criteria at date of grant % N A 84 N A 33 5 7 6 7 Fair value per instrument 4.32 3.25 3.36 3.40 Mondi plc BSP 2009 LTIP 2009 Date of grant 27 March 2009 27 March 2009 1 Vesting period years 33 23 Vesting conditions Expected leavers per annum % 55 Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant % N A 75 6 7 Fair value per instrument 0.98 0.99 Notes: 1 The number of years continuous employment service condition.
4 The service condition must be satisfied in order for vesting to occur.
In addition, the level of vesting is determined with reference to a market-based performance condition.
5 The average mid-market share price for the month ending 3 August 2007 has been used to quantify the fair value of each instrument granted the base fair value, as adjusted for the present value of anticipated dividends foregone over future vesting periods.
6 Accrued entitlements to dividends on BSP awards are accounted for on a cash-settled basis and are included in the fair value estimate.
7 The base fair value has been adjusted for  market-based performance conditions.
8 At 31 December 2008 it was assumed that the expected outcome would be 89%.
A reconciliation of share award movements for the Mondi share schemes is shown below.
Details of the aggregate net assets acquired, as adjusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill are presented as follows: E million Book value Revaluation Fair value 1 Net assets acquired: Long-term borrowings 2 2 Equity minority interest 3 3 Other 1 1 Net assets acquired 2 2 4 Goodwill arising on acquisition Total cost of acquisition 4 Debt consideration 2 Net cash paid 2 Note: 1 The business combinations were not individually material and therefore have not been shown separately.
The values used in accounting for the identifiable assets and liabilities of these acquisitions are provisional in nature at the reporting date.
If necessary, adjustments will be made to these carrying values, and to the related goodwill, within 12 months of the acquisition date.
146 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 30 Business combinations continued To 31 December 2008 Principal acquisitions made during the year to 31 December 2008, accounted for under the acquisition method, were: Name of entity acquired Nature of entity acquired Date of acquisition Percentage acquired Dunapack Bag converting April 2008 100.0 Rochester Coating April 2008 100.0 Loparex Group Coating and Kraft paper April 2008 100.0 Details of the aggregate net assets acquired, as adjusted from book to fair value, and the attributable goodwill are presented as follows: Emillion Book valueRevaluationFair value 1 Net assets acquired: Intangible assets 1 8 9 Property, plant and equipment 59 32 27 Financial asset investments 5 5 Deferred tax assets 1 2 3 Inventories 22 1 21 Trade and other receivables 44 2 46 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Short-term borrowings 3 3 Other current liabilities 44 44 Long-term borrowings 37 37 Deferred tax liabilities 3 1 4 2 Contingent liabilities 2 2 Equity minority interest 5 5 Net assets acquired 55 22 33 Goodwill arising on acquisition 19 Total cost of acquisition 52 Cash acquired net of overdrafts 3 Net cash paid 49 Notes: 1 The business combinations were not individually material and therefore have not been shown separately.
2 Adjustments to the acquired contingent liabilities of Tire Kutsan which was acquired in 2007.
During the year to 31 December 2009 adjustments totalling E2 million have been made to the provisional values estimated of net assets of the Loparex Group acquired in the year to 31 December 2008.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 147 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 31 Disposal of subsidiaries and associates E million 2009 2008 Net assets disposed: Property, plant and equipment 38 57 Inventories 59 Trade and other receivables 34 31 1 Assets held for sale 19 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Short-term borrowings 8 5 Trade and other payables 28 26 Retirement benefits obligation 3 1 Deferred tax liabilities 1 Long-term borrowings 20 1 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 6 Total net assets disposed 53 44 Profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries see note 5 3 27 Profit on disposal of associates 3 Disposal proceeds 59 17 Net cash disposed 2 Net cash inflow from disposals 57 17 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries during the year 54 17 Net cash inflow from disposal of associates during the year 3 Note: 1 Disposal of assets and liabilities previously classified as held for sale.
The carrying value includes all movements since the date of reclassification up to the date of disposal.
32 Disposal groups and assets held for sale E million 2009 2008 Property, plant and equipment 51 Forestry assets 30 Total non-current assets 35 1 Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 2 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Total current assets 1 4 Total assets classified as held for sale 36 5 Trade and other payables 1 2 Total current liabilities 1 2 Deferred tax liabilities 8 1 Total non-current liabilities 8 1 Total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 9 3 Net assets 27 2 148 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 33 Consolidated cash flow analysis a Reconciliation of profit loss before tax to cash generated from operations E million 2009 2008 Profit loss before tax 49 103 Depreciation and amortisation 351 373 Share option expense 59 Non-cash effect of special items 98 368 Net finance costs 114 159 Net income from associates 2 2 Decrease in provisions and post-employment benefits 16 21 Decrease in inventories 80 26 Decrease in operating receivables 170 106 Decrease in operating payables 2 105 Fair value gains on forestry assets 28 46 Felling costs 50 43 Profit on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 4 6 Other adjustments 2 6 Cash generated from operations 867 795 b Cash and cash equivalents E million 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents per statement of financial position 123 155 Bank overdrafts included in short-term borrowings 86 80 Net cash and cash equivalents per statement of cash flows 37 75 c Movement in net debt The Groups net debt position, excluding disposal groups is as follows: Cash and Debt due Debt due cash within one after one Total net 1 2 Emillion equivalents year year debt At 1 January 2008 59 332 1,234 1,507 Cash flow 24 214 543 305 Business combinations see note 30 3 3 37 37 Disposal of businesses see note 31 5 20 25 Reclassifications 2 215 215 2 Currency movements 9 33 112 136 At 31 December 2008 75 298 1,467 1,690 Cash flow 19 288 38 231 Business combinations see note 30 2 2 Disposal of businesses see note 31 2 8 6 Reclassifications 19 119 153 15 Currency movements 2 12 71 81 At 31 December 2009 37 133 1,421 1,517 Notes: 1 The Group operates in certain countries principally South Africa where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances.
These restrictions are not expected to have any material effect on the Groups ability to meet its ongoing obligations.
2 Excludes overdrafts, which are included as cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 December 2009, short-term borrowings on the combined and consolidated statement of financial position of E219 million 2008: E378 million include E86 million of overdrafts 2008: E80 million.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 149 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 33 Consolidated cash flow analysis continued Carrying value Cash and Debt due Debt due cash within one after one Total net Emillion  Disposal groups 2009 see note 32 Disposal groups 2008 see note 32 2 2 d Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to EBITDA for the years ended 31 December E million 2009 2008 Cash generated from operations 867 795 Share option expense 5 9 Fair value gains on forestry assets 28 46 Felling costs 50 43 Decrease in provisions and post-employment benefits 16 21 Decrease in inventories 80 26 Decrease in operating receivables 170 106 Decrease in operating payables 2 105 Profit on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 4 6 Add back cash effect of operating special items 35 19 Other adjustments 2 6 1 EBITDA 645 814 Note: 1 EBITDA is operating profit before special items, depreciation and amortisation.
1 e EBITDA by operating segment E million 2009 2008 Europe & International Uncoated Fine Paper 239 221 Corrugated 87 131 Bags & Specialities 189 271 Total Europe & International 515 623 South Africa Uncoated Fine Paper 52 109 Containerboard 24 43 Total South Africa 76 152 Mondi Packaging South Africa 62 52 Merchant & Newsprint businesses 28 24 Corporate & other businesses 36 37 EBITDA 645 814 Note: 1 Management reviews segment EBITDA on a regular basis as part of the resource allocation decision-making process and the ongoing assessment of segment performance.
Accordingly, segment EBITDA is presented since the Group believes that this provides useful additional information to the user of the Groups combined and consolidated financial statements.
150 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 33 Consolidated cash flow analysis continued EBITDA is stated before special items and is reconciled to Total profit from operations and associates as follows: E million 2009 2008 Total profit from operations and associates 163 56 Special items excluding associates 128 358 Net profit loss on disposals excluding associates 3 27 Impairment of assets held for sale 8 2 Depreciation and amortisation 351 373 Share of associates net income 2 2 EBITDA 645 814 34 Capital commitments E million 2009 2008 Contracted for but not provided 214 405 Approved, not yet contracted for 291 219 These capital commitments will be financed by existing cash resources and borrowing facilities.
35 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Disclosable contingent liabilities comprise aggregate amounts at 31 December 2009 of E21 million 2008: E17 million in respect of loans and guarantees given to banks and other third parties.
Acquired contingent liabilities of Enil 2008: E2 million have been recorded on the Groups combined and consolidated statement of financial position.
There are a number of legal or potential claims against the Group.
Provision is made for all liabilities that are expected to materialise.
There were no significant disclosable contingent assets for both the years presented.
36 Operating leases At 31 December, the Group had the following outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: E million 2009 2008 Expiry date Within one year 53 45 One to two years 52 42 Two to five years 153 114 After five years 109 143 Total operating leases 367 344 The majority of these operating leases relate to land and buildings.
In addition to the above, the Group entered into a land lease agreement on 1 January 2001 for a total term of 70 years.
The operating lease commitment and annual escalation rate are renegotiated every five years.
The operating lease charge recorded in the combined and consolidated income statement amounted to E1 million 2008: E1 million.
There are 61 years remaining on the lease.
The operating lease commitments of this lease are not included in the table above.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 151 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 37 Capital management The Group defines its total capital employed as equity, as presented in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position, plus net debt see note 33, excluding loans to joint ventures, less financial asset investments.
E million 2009 2008 Total borrowings 1,554 1,765 1 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 37 75 Net debt 1,517 1,690 Less: Financial asset investments Loans and receivables 10 5 Available-for-sale investments 17 14 Adjusted net debt 1,490 1,671 Equity 2,824 2,696 Total capital employed 4,314 4,367 Note: 1 Net of overdrafts.
Total capital employed is managed on a basis that enables the Group to continue trading as a going concern, while delivering acceptable returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
Additionally, the Group is also committed to reducing its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, the Group may adjust the future level of dividends paid to shareholders, repurchase shares from shareholders, issue new equity instruments or dispose of assets to reduce its net debt exposure.
The Group reviews its total capital employed on a regular basis and makes use of several indicative ratios which are appropriate to the nature of the Groups operations and are consistent with conventional industry measures.
The principal ratios used in this review process are: gearing, defined as net debt divided by total capital employed: and return on capital employed, defined as underlying operating profit, plus share of associates net income, before special items, divided by average capital employed.
The Group operates a DLC structure which has been agreed with the South African Ministry of Finance and is subject to certain exchange control conditions.
The exchange control conditions do not infringe upon the Groups ability to manage its capital structure optimally.
However, they do require that the capital supplied by, or made available to, the shareholders of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, is constrained by the equality of treatment mechanism, which serves to maintain and protect the economic interests of both sets of shareholders.
The Group has continually met the exchange control provisions in the past and management is committed to ensuring that the Group continues to meet these provisions in future.
38 Financial risk management The Groups trading and financing activities expose it to various financial risks that, if left unmanaged, could adversely impact on current or future earnings.
Although not necessarily mutually exclusive, these financial risks are categorised separately according to their different generic risk characteristics and include market risk foreign exchange risk and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group is actively engaged in the management of all of these financial risks in order to minimise their potential adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The principles, practices and procedures governing the Group-wide financial risk management process have been approved by the Boards and are overseen by the DLC executive committee.
In turn, the DLC executive committee delegates authority to a central treasury function Group treasury for the practical implementation of the financial risk management process across the Group and for ensuring that the Groups entities adhere to specified financial risk management policies.
Group treasury continually reassesses and reports on the financial risk environment, identifying, evaluating and hedging financial risks by entering into derivative contracts with counterparties where appropriate.
The Group does not take positions on derivative contracts speculatively and only enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties that have investment grade credit ratings.
152 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 38 Financial risk management continued Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to foreign exchange and cash flow interest rate risk.
Both risks are actively monitored on a continuous basis and managed through the use of foreign exchange contracts and floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps interest rate swaps respectively.
Although the Groups cash flows are exposed to movements in key input and output prices, such movements represent economic rather than residual financial risk inherent in commodity payables and receivables.
Consequently, the Group is not substantively exposed to commodity price risk as defined in IFRS 7.
Since the impact on the Groups equity would be immaterial for a wide range of relevant commodity price changes, the Group has chosen not to perform sensitivity analyses on its commodity price derivatives.
The Group is also exposed to a limited extent to the equity price risk that attaches to its available-for-sale financial asset investments.
Even under stressed market conditions, the impact on earnings or equity attributable to the crystallisation of equity price risk would be immaterial.
Accordingly, the Group has chosen not to disclose sensitivity analyses on equity price risk.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates across various national boundaries and is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the normal course of its business.
Multiple currency exposures arise from forecast commercial transactions denominated in foreign currencies, recognised financial assets and liabilities monetary items denominated in foreign currencies and the translational exposure on net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange contracts The Groups foreign exchange policy requires its subsidiaries to actively manage foreign currency exposures against their functional currencies by entering into foreign exchange contracts.
The management of foreign currency exposures in 2009 incorporated both forecast transactions and recognised monetary items in the statement of financial position.
For segmental reporting purposes, each subsidiary enters into, and accounts for, foreign exchange contracts with Group treasury or with counterparties that are external to the Group, whichever is more commercially appropriate.
As part of managements regular review of the suitability of the treasury risk management policies, the Groups currency hedging policy has been amended.
Effective from January 2010, only material balance sheet exposures and highly probable forecast capital expenditure transactions are to be hedged.
Prior to the implementation of the amended hedging policy, currencies bought or sold forward to mitigate possible unfavourable movements on forecast transactions were designated as cash flow hedges.
The Groups budgeting and forecasting systems enabled subsidiaries to assign a high degree of probability to forecast transactions and this therefore qualified them for designation as hedged items.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of designated foreign exchange contracts were initially deferred in equity, and subsequently reclassified to the combined and consolidated income statement when the underlying forecast transaction affected profit or loss.
Utilisation of cash flow hedging enabled the Group to reclassify the fair value movements accreted on foreign exchange contracts and to match them with the crystallisation of the foreign exchange risk attributable to the designated hedged items in the combined and consolidated income statement.
Hedging documentation was maintained and subjected to regular internal and external review, which reduced the risk of hedging ineffectiveness.
Currencies bought or sold forward to mitigate possible unfavourable movements on recognised monetary items are fair valued at each reporting date.
Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at each reporting date to incorporate the underlying foreign exchange movements, as prescribed by IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, and any such movements naturally off-set against fair value movements on related foreign exchange contracts.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Foreign exchange risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on the foreign currency exposures inherent in the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities at the reporting dates presented, net of related forward positions.
The sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the Groups reported earnings of reasonably possible changes in the currency exposures embedded within the functional currency environments that the Group operates in.
In addition, an indication is provided of how reasonably possible changes in foreign exchange rates might impact on the Groups equity, as a result of fair value adjustments to foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
Reasonably possible changes are based on an analysis of historic currency volatility, together with any relevant assumptions regarding near-term future volatility.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 153 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 38 Financial risk management continued Net monetary foreign currency exposures by functional currency zone 1 Net monetary foreign currency exposures assets liabilities 2009 E million USD EUR PLN GBP SEK HUF CZK Other 2 Functional currency zones: US dollar 1 South African rand 1 5 1 1 3 Euro 1 2 2 1 Russian rouble 2 100 Polish zloty 4 1 British pound 1 1 Swedish krona 1 4 Hungarian forint 3 Czech koruna 12 Other 4 41 1 Net monetary foreign currency exposures assets liabilities 2008 Emillion USD EUR PLN GBP SEK SKK CZK Other 2 Functional currency zones: US dollar 1 South African rand 1 Euro 6 1 14 Russian rouble 2 18 Polish zloty 2 4 1 British pound 5 1 Slovakian koruna 19 1 Czech koruna 2 6 Other 29 105 Notes: 1 Presented in euros because this is the presentational currency of the Group.
2 Net monetary exposures represent financial assets less financial liabilities denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency, adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange risk hedging, excluding cash flow hedging.
Resultant impacts of reasonably possible changes to foreign exchange rates The Group believes that for each functional to foreign currency net monetary exposure it is reasonable to assume a 5% appreciation depreciation of the functional currency.
If all other variables are held constant, the table below presents the impacts on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement if these currency movements had occurred.
Income expense 2009 E million 5% -5% Functional currency zones: Russian rouble 5 5 Other 2 2 154 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 38 Financial risk management continued Income expense 2008 E million 5% -5% Functional currency zones: Euro 1 1 Russian rouble 1 1 Slovakian koruna 1 1 Other 7 7 The corresponding fair value impact on the Groups equity, resulting from the application of these reasonably possible changes to the valuation of the Groups foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges, would have been Enil 2008: E5 million.
It has been assumed that changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are fully recorded in equity and that all other variables are held constant.
Cash flow interest rate risk The Group holds cash and cash equivalents, which earn interest at a variable rate and have variable rate debt in issue.
Consequently, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
Although the Group also has fixed rate debt in issue, the Groups accounting policy stipulates that all borrowings are held at amortised cost.
As a result, the carrying value of fixed rate debt is not sensitive to changes in credit conditions in the relevant debt markets and there is therefore no exposure to fair value interest rate risk.
Management of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits, together with short-term highly liquid investments which have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Centralised cash pooling arrangements are in place, which ensure that cash is utilised most efficiently for the ongoing working capital needs of the Groups operating units and, in addition, to ensure that the Group earns the most advantageous rates of interest available.
Management of variable rate debt The Group has multiple variable rate debt facilities, of which the most significant is the syndicated facility denominated in euros see note 21.
Group treasury uses interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures to movements in the relevant inter-bank lending rates, primarily the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate JIBAR.
Interest rate swaps are ordinarily formally designated as cash flow hedges and are fair valued at each reporting date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined at each reporting date by reference to the discounted contractual future cash flows, using the relevant currency-specific yield curves, and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
The resultant effective portion of the fair value gains and losses is initially deferred in equity, and is subsequently reclassified for offset against the interest cash flows arising on the hedged item.
Cash flow hedging enables the Group to reclassify the fair value movements accreted on interest rate swaps from the Groups cash flow hedge reserve in equity and to match them with the crystallisation of the cash flow interest rate risk attributable to the variable rate debt in the Groups combined and consolidated income statement.
The effect of applying this accounting treatment is to reduce the underlying volatility of reported earnings.
Hedging effectiveness documentation is subjected to regular internal and external review, which reduces the risk of hedging ineffectiveness.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents also acts as a natural hedge against possible unfavourable movements in the relevant inter-bank lending rates on its variable rate debt, subject to any interest rate differentials that exist between corporate saving and lending rates.
Net variable rate debt sensitivity analysis The net variable rate exposure represents variable rate debt less the future cash outflows swapped from variable-to-fixed via interest rate swap instruments and cash and cash equivalents.
Reasonably possible changes in interest rates have been applied to net variable rate exposure, as denominated by currency, in order to provide an indication of the possible impact on the Groups combined and consolidated income statement.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 155 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 38 Financial risk management continued Cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable rate debt and interest rate swaps Cash flow interest rate risk exposures and sensitivities 2009 E million EUR ZAR GBP USD PLN CZK Other Total Total debt 982 402 10 10 166 46 24 1,640 Less: Fixed rate debt 164 48 6 115 9 342 Non-interest bearing debt 1 12 13 Cash and cash equivalents 34 39 3 7 2 2 36 123 Net variable rate debt 783 303 7 3 49 44 21 1,162 Interest rate swaps: Floating-to-fixed notionals 614 47 48 45 754 Net variable rate exposure 169 256 7 3 1 1 21 408 basis points change Potential impact on earnings 50 basis points 1 1 2 Potential impact on earnings -50 basis points 1 1 2 The potential impact on the Groups combined and consolidated equity resulting from the application of 50 basis points to the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges would be a fair value gain loss of E5 million for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Cash flow interest rate risk exposures and sensitivities 2008 E million EUR ZAR GBP USD PLN CZK Other Total Total debt 1,254 387 7 36 50 111 1,845 Less: Fixed rate debt 256 38 25 47 26 392 Non-interest bearing debt 2 11 13 Cash and cash equivalents 56 22 8 19 12 5 43 155 Net variable rate debt 940 316 1 8 9 5 42 1,285 Interest rate swaps: Floating-to-fixed notionals 568 38 606 Net variable rate exposure 372 278 1 8 9 5 42 679 basis points change Potential impact on earnings 50 basis points 2 1 3 Potential impact on earnings -50 basis points 2 1 3 The potential impact on the Groups combined and consolidated equity resulting from the application of 50 basis points to the interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges would be a fair value gain loss of E8 million for the year ended 31 December 2008.
156 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 38 Financial risk management continued In addition to the above, the Group swaps euro debt into other currencies through the foreign exchange market using foreign exchange contracts of mostly three month tenure which has the effect of exposing the Group to interest rates of these currencies.
The currencies swapped into and the amounts at 31 December were as follows: E million 2009 2008 Russian rouble 256 271 British pound 65 87 US dollar 27 43 Polish zloty 106 82 Czech koruna 47 81 Swedish krona 42 63 Other 21 77 Total swapped 564 704 Credit risk The Groups credit risk is mainly confined to the risk of customers defaulting on sales invoices raised.
Any credit risk arising from cash deposits and derivative financial instruments is deemed to be insignificant on the basis that nearly all relevant counterparties are investment grade entities assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Several Group entities have also issued certain financial guarantees to external counterparties in order to achieve competitive funding rates for specific debt agreements entered into by other Group entities.
None of these financial guarantees contractually obligates the Group to pay more than the recognised financial liabilities in the entities concerned.
As a result, these financial guarantee contracts have no bearing on the credit risk profile of the Group as a whole.
The Group has also provided committed loan facilities to Mondi Packaging South Africa and Mondi Shanduka Newsprint.
Full disclosure of the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is presented in the following table.
Groups exposure to credit risk E million 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 123 155 Derivative financial instruments 773 Trade and other receivables 915 1,088 Loans and receivables 10 5 Total credit risk exposure 1,055 1,321 Credit risk associated with trade receivables The Group has a large number of unrelated customers and does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any particular customer.
The Group believes that there is no significant geographical concentration of credit risk, with each geographical segment representing a similar degree of exposure.
Each business segment manages its own exposure to credit risk according to the economic circumstances and characteristics of the relevant markets that they serve.
The Group believes that management of credit risk on a devolved basis enables it to assess and manage credit risk more effectively.
However, broad principles of credit risk management practice are observed across all business segments, such as the use of credit rating agencies, credit guarantee insurance, where appropriate, and the maintenance of a credit control function.
Of the total trade receivables balance of E763 million 2008: E891 million reported in the combined and consolidated statement of financial position, credit insurance covering E410 million 2008: E592 million of the total balance has been taken out by the Groups trading entities to insure against the related credit default risk.
The insured cover is presented gross of contractually agreed excess amounts.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could experience difficulties in meeting its commitments to creditors as financial liabilities fall due for payment.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by using reasonable and  assumptions to forecast the future cash-generative capabilities and working capital requirements of the businesses it operates and by maintaining sufficient reserves, committed borrowing facilities and other credit lines as appropriate.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 157 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 38 Financial risk management continued The following table shows the amounts available to draw down on the Groups committed loan facilities.
E million 2009 2008 Expiry date In one year or less 141 167 In more than one year 849 895 Total credit available 990 1,062 Forecast liquidity represents the Groups expected cash inflows, principally generated from sales made to customers, less the Groups  cash outflows, principally related to supplier payments and the repayment of borrowings, including finance lease obligations, plus the payment of any interest accruing thereon.
The matching of these cash inflows and outflows rests on the expected ageing profiles of the underlying assets and liabilities.
Short-term financial assets and financial liabilities are represented primarily by the Groups trade receivables and trade payables respectively.
The matching of the cash flows that result from trade receivables and trade payables takes place typically over a period of three to four months from recognition in the statement of financial position and is managed to ensure the ongoing operating liquidity of the Group.
Financing cash outflows may be longer-term in nature.
The Group does not hold long-term financial assets to match against these commitments, but is significantly invested in long-term non-financial assets which generate the sustainable future cash inflows, net of future capital expenditure requirements, needed to service and repay the Groups borrowings.
The Group also assesses its commitments under interest rate swaps, which hedge future cash flows from two to five years from the reporting date presented.
Contractual maturity analysis Trade receivables, the principal class of non-derivative financial asset held by the Group, are settled gross by customers.
The Groups financial investments, which are not held for trading and therefore do not comprise part of the Groups liquidity planning arrangements, make up the remainder of the non-derivative financial assets held.
The following table presents the Groups outstanding contractual maturity profile for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The analysis presented is based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities, including any interest that will accrue, except where the Group is entitled and intends to repay a financial liability, or part of a financial liability, before its contractual maturity.
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities which are due to be settled in less than 12 months from maturity equal their carrying values, since the impact of the time value of money is immaterial over such a short duration.
Maturity profile of outstanding financial liabilities Undiscounted cash flows 1 2009 E million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables see note 20 1,023 1,023 Finance leases 6477 24 Borrowings 284 321 1,007 170 1,782 Total  Undiscounted cash flows 1 2008 E million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total Trade and other payables see note 20 1,035 1,035 Finance leases 7699 31 Borrowings 389 124 1,213 178 1,904 Total 1,431 130 1,222 187 2,970 Note: 1 It has been assumed that, where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date will not vary over the time periods remaining for future cash outflows.
158 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 38 Financial risk management continued The following table presents the Groups outstanding contractual maturity profile for its derivative financial instruments, which will be settled on a net basis.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted net cash flows.
Maturity profile of outstanding derivative positions Undiscounted cash flows 1 2009 E million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total Foreign exchange contracts 12 12 Interest rate swaps 18 8 4 30 Commodity price derivatives 3 3 Total 33 8 4 45 Undiscounted cash flows 1 2008 E million 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total Foreign exchange contracts 45 45 Interest rate swaps 12 12 3 27 Commodity price derivatives 15 4 19 Total 18 16 3 1 Note: 1 It has been assumed that, where applicable, foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date will not vary over the time periods projected.
Fair value estimation Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, for financial instruments that are measured in the statement of financial position at fair value, requiring disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives are determined using standard valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where available and rely as little as possible on Group specific estimates.
For financial instruments to be included in level 2, all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument must be observable.
The significant inputs required to fair value all of the Groups financial instruments are observable, and therefore all of the Groups financial instruments are categorised as level 2 financial instruments.
The Group does not hold any financial instruments categorised as either level 1 or level 3 financial instruments.
Specific valuation methodologies used to value financial instruments include: the fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable yield curves and exchange rates.
the Groups commodity price derivatives are fair valued by independent third parties, who in turn calculate the fair values as the present value of expected future cash flows based on observable market data.
other techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine the fair values of other financial instruments.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 159 Financial statements Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 39 Related party transactions The Group has a related party relationship with its associates and joint ventures see note 40.
Transactions between Mondi Limited, Mondi plc and their respective subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sale, purchase and service transactions with joint ventures and associates and others in which the Group has a material interest.
These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable than those arranged with third parties.
These transactions, in total, are not considered to be significant.
The executive directors, who together with the non-executive directors comprise the Boards, are deemed to be the key management personnel of the Group: their remuneration is disclosed in the remuneration report.
Joint 2009 E million ventures Associates Sales to related parties 11 Purchases from related parties 1 Loans to related parties 19 Receivables due from related parties 8 Payables due to related parties 1 Joint 2008 E million ventures Associates Sales to related parties 11 Purchases from related parties 1 32 Loans to related parties 10 Receivables due from related parties 7 1 Cyril Ramaphosa, joint chairman of Mondi, has a 34.3% 2008: 32.7% stake in Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited, an entity that has controlling interests in Shanduka Advisors Proprietary Limited, Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited, Shanduka Packaging Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited and participating interests in Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited, Kangra Coal Proprietary Limited, Shanduka Coal Proprietary Limited and Mondi Packaging South Africa Proprietary Limited.
Fees of E383,728 2008: E340,000 and Enil 2008: E392,000 were paid to Shanduka Advisors Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited respectively for management services provided to the Group during the year ended 31 December 2009.
Shanduka Packaging Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited have also provided a shareholders loan to the Group.
The balance outstanding at 31 December 2009 was E15.8 million 2008: E12.9 million and E8.7 million 2008: E7.1 million, respectively.
In the normal course of business, and on an arms length basis, the Group purchased supplies from Kangra Coal Proprietary Limited totalling E8.8 million 2008: E12 million and from Shanduka Coal Proprietary Limited totalling E3.5 million 2008:Enil during the year.
E480,000 2008: E1 million remains outstanding on these purchases as at 31 December 2009.
Dividends received from associates for the year ended 31 December 2009 amounts to E2 million 2008: E2 million, as disclosed in the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows.
160 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 40 Group companies The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of the Group as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008, and the Groups percentage of equity owned, together with the Groups interests in joint venture entities are presented below.
All of these interests are combined and consolidated within the Groups financial statements.
The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries, as full compliance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
Percentage 1 equity owned Country of incorporation Business 2009 2008 Subsidiary undertaking Mondi SCP a. s. Slovakia Uncoated fine paper 51 51 Mondi AG Austria Corrugated, bags & specialities and uncoated fine paper 100 100 Mondi Packaging Europe SA Luxembourg Corrugated packaging 100 100 Mondi Packaging Corrugated Holding GmbH Austria Corrugated packaging 100 100 Mondi SwiecieSA Poland Virgin containerboard 66 66 Mondi Packaging South Africa 2 Proprietary Limited South Africa Packaging 70 70 Europapier AG Austria Paper merchanting 100 100 Tire Kutsan Oluklu Mukavva 3 Kutu five Kagit Sanayi A. S. Turkey Corrugated packaging 54 54 Mondi Syktyvkar OJSC Russia Uncoated fine paper, containerboard and newsprint 100 99 Mondi Ste ti a. s. Czech Republic Kraft paper 100 100 4 Joint ventures Aylesford Newsprint Holdings Limited UK Newsprint 50 50 5 Mondi Shanduka Newsprint South Africa Newsprint 50 50 Notes: 1 This represents the percentage of equity owned and the proportion of voting rights held by the Group.
2 Consolidated at 75% due to the contractual arrangement with the subsidiarys employee share ownership trust.
3 Consolidated at 63.4% since the Group is obligated to acquire an additional 9.83% of the entitys equity instruments.
4 The presumption of significant influence over these entities does not apply because the economic activities of these entities are jointly controlled under contractual arrangements that have been entered into with venturer parties.
5 Due to the contractual arrangements with the entitys employee share and community ownership trust, shareholdings are proportionately consolidated at 58%.
These companies operate principally in the countries in which they are incorporated.
Non-operating intermediate holding companies are excluded from the above table.
The Groups share of losses from subsidiary entities, excluding joint ventures, for the year ended 31 December 2009 is E38 million 2008: E209 million.
41 Events occurring after 31 December 2009 With the exception of the proposed final dividend for 2009, included in note 9, there have been no material reportable events since 31 December 2009.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 161 Financial statements
