Glossary of terms Mechanical pulp: Pulp produced by Headline earnings: JSE Listings This report contains a number mechanically grinding debarked wood to measure, calculated in accordance with of terms, some of which are separate the wood fibre.
Circular 3 2009, Headline Earnings, as particular to the paper and issued by the South African Institute of packaging industry.
Office paper: Uncoated fine paper in Chartered Accountants.
cut size e. g. A4, A3 and other Annual allowable cut: Volume of timber converted products e. g. forms, Net debt: A non-GAAP measure, which can be harvested annually, subject computer sheets, coloured papers and comprising short-term, medium and to government regulations and the envelopes.
long-term borrowings and bank principles of sustained yield.
It is a key overdrafts less cash and cash part of the management model by which Plantations: Selected species of tree equivalents and current financial asset forests can be sustained from generation planted in regimented lines to maximise investments.
yield and ease of management.
Net segment assets: Net segment Cartonboard: Paperboard used to Recovered fibre: Used paper and board assets are segment assets, consisting of produce folding cartons and graphic separately collected for re-use as fibre property, plant and equipment, products like cards and covers.
raw material in paper and board intangibles, forestry assets, retirement manufacture.
benefit surplus, inventories and operating Chemical pulp: Wood pulp or fibres receivables less segment liabilities obtained by digesting and bleaching of Recycled fibre: Fibre derived from the consisting of non-interest-bearing current woodchips, to remove lignin and other collection and treatment of waste paper.
liabilities, restoration and environmental organic materials surrounding cellulose Release liners: Protective backing of provisions and provisions for postfibres and isolate them for papermaking.
self-adhesive products, the prerequisite retirement benefits.
Containerboard: Collective term for for modern pressure-sensitive adhesive Operating margin: Underlying operating kraftliner and or testliner and fluting, the technology e. g. for self-adhesive tapes, profit divided by Group revenue.
two basic components used to make labels, advertising films, diaper tapes, the walls of corrugated boxes and roofing membranes, etc.. Reported profit loss before tax: cases.
Reported profit loss before tax but after Semi-chemical fluting: Fluting special items.
Converting: Process of transforming manufactured primarily from virgin fibre.
paper and containerboard into value Return on capital employed ROCE : Testliner: Containerboard manufactured added products: e. g. wood-free reels This is trailing 12 month underlying primarily from recycled product.
into cut-size, or folding containerboard operating profit, including share of into folding cartons.
Uncoated fine paper: Uncoated 'woodassociates net income, divided by free' paper, produced from chemical trailing 12 month average trading capital Corrugated board: Packing material pulp and used, for example, in office employed and for segments has been produced by gluing outer layers of papers.
containerboard to a rippled middle layer Capital employed is adjusted for of fluting.
Virgin fibre: Fibre derived directly from impairments in the year and spend on wood pulp.
Corrugated boxes: Boxes produced the strategic projects which are not yet from corrugated board.
Wood pulp: Principal raw material of in production.
The suitability Corrugated packaging: Packaging Shareholders funds: Share capital, of certain types of wood pulp for specific materials made from corrugated board.
share premium, retained earnings and products depends upon the type of other reserves attributable to equity fide-inked pulp: Waste-paper pulp wood used and the pulping process.
holders of the parent companies.
produced from used printed paper from Pulp produced from hardwood trees which the ink has been removed.
e. g. eucalyptus, aspen, birch and Special items: Those non-recurring acacia has short fibres and is better financial items which the Group believes Extrusion-coated: Substrate material suited to coated packaging boards, should be separately disclosed on the e. g. paper, board, aluminium coated coated and uncoated fine paper and face of the combined and consolidated with a molten web of resin polymer to tissues.
Softwood e. g. pine and fir has income statement to assist in enhance its barrier properties e. g. to long fibres and is generally used for understanding the underlying financial make it waterproof.
performance achieved by the Group and Flexible packaging: Papers, cellulose its businesses.
films and aluminium foils primarily used, Total equity: Shareholders funds and separately or in combination, for retail Financial terms minority interests in equity.
food and non-food packaging e. g. pet food, hygiene product overwrap, Trading capital employed: Net EBITDA: Operating profit of subsidiaries detergents and other specialist uses segment assets plus investment in and joint ventures before special items, such as medical, pharmaceutical and associates, deferred tax, and other nondepreciation and amortisation.
operating assets and liabilities excluding EBITDA interest cover: EBITDA divided financial investments.
Fluting: Raw material used for the by net debt finance charges before rippled middle layer of corrugated board.
Underlying earnings: Net profit after tax special financing items.
before special items attributable to equity Industrial bags: Flexible bags made of Gearing: The ratio of net debt to total holders of the parent companies.
paper, typically used to package capital employed.
between 10 and 50 kilograms of Underlying operating profit: Operating powdered, granular or coarse products.
Group revenue: Total turnover of profit of subsidiaries and joint ventures subsidiaries and proportionate share of before special items.
Kraftliner: Containerboard manufactured joint venture turnover.
Underlying profit before tax: Reported profit before tax and special items.
Kraft paper: Strong paper made from virgin fibre.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 185 For further information, please see: Mondi Limited Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Sustainability summary report 2009 www.
com Design by Russell and Associates www.
co. za Printed by Colorpress pty ltd on FSC certified Mondi 250gsm MAESTRO, 120gsm IQ selection smooth and 80gsm IQ colour
