General Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Solicitors Moneysupermarket House Herbert Smith St Davids Park Exchange House Ewloe Primrose Street Chester CH5 3UZ London EC2A 2HS No.
6160943 Principal bankers Telephone: 44 0 1244 665700 Lloyds TSB Bank plc Website: www.
com City Office PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT Company Secretary Darren Drabble Financial PR Tulchan Communications Financial advisors stockbrokers Sixth Floor Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited Kildare House One Cabot Square 3 Dorset Rise London E14 4QJ London EC4Y 8EN UBS Limited Registrar 1 Finsbury Avenue Capita Registrars London EC2M 2PP Northern House Woodsome Park Auditors Fenay Bridge KPMG Audit Plc Huddersfield HD8 0GA St James Square Manchester M2 6DS Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday-Friday 44 0 208 639 3399 overseas E-mail: moneysupermarket@capitaregistrars.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Enquiring about your shareholding If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, please contact our registrar see contact details above.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Groups shareholder portal at www.
com where you can, amongst other things, view details of your shareholding, set up or amend a dividend mandate and update your address details.
Investor relations website The investor relations section of our website, www.
com, provides further information for anyone interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and Accounts and share price, Company announcements including the half year and full year results announcements and associated presentations are also published there.
Dividend mandates If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building society account, you should contact our registrar see contact details on the left for a dividend mandate form or visit the Groups shareholder portal at www.
com where you can set up or amend a dividend mandate.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application form is available from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Share dealing service You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient way via the Capita share dealing service either online www.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Electronic communications You can elect to receive shareholder communications electronically by writing to our registrar, Capita Registrars, Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 9ZA.
This will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
When you register, you will be sent a notification to say when shareholder communications are available on our website and you will be provided with a link to that information.
Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Group to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, revise or change any forward looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring after the date of this Annual Report.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 79
