68 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements IAS 38 amended 2008 Intangible Assets 1 Basis of Preparation IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement eligible a Accounting standards applied hedged items The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial IAS 40 amended 2008 Investment Property Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the Standards issued IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and Interpretations issued by the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation by the European Union EU.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out 2 Principal Accounting Policies on page 49 of the Financial Review.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and a Accounting convention Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention not yet effective: as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain financial instruments, principally Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 d and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 s. IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements b Basis of consolidation IAS 28 revised 2008 Investments in Associates The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has power to govern The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future the operating and financial policies in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for: The consolidated financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations.
This standard will affect the treatment of expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating business combinations which take place in periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, inter-company balances and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets when the revised standard comes into effect.
and net earnings attributable to minority shareholders are presented as Minority Interests IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This standard will in the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated income statement.
affect the accounting for transactions or events that result in a change in the Groups ii A ssociates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise interests in its subsidiaries.
significant influence, but not control or jointly control, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The Groups share of the net b Adoption of new accounting standards assets, the results post tax and post acquisition reserves of associates are included in the In the current financial year the Group has adopted the following standards that have affected financial statements.
This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group the presentation and disclosure in these financial statements: and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reflect IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
In the current year the Group has adopted IFRS 8.
The standard the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment of goodwill and any other requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Antofagasta plc board to allocate iii Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has not holds a long-term interest and shares joint control over the operating and financial resulted in any changes to segments previously disclosed, but has resulted in further decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
disclosures on each of these segments and these are set out in Note 4.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, which IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements.
In the current year the Group has combines the Groups share of the results of the jointly controlled entity on a line by line adopted IAS 1 revised, which separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
The statement of changes in equity details transactions with owners, with all non-owner iv Other investments The accounting treatment of investments which are not subsidiaries, changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the Standard introduces a statement associates or jointly controlled entities is set out in Note 2 s relating to other financial of comprehensive income, which presents all items of income and expense which are not instruments.
recognised in the income statement.
v Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in The following standards and interpretations are effective but have not had any significant Note 2 e relating to business combinations and goodwill.
impact on the financial statements: IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly c Currency translation Controlled Entity or Associate The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions other than those in the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional IAS 20 amended 2008 Accounting for Governments and Disclosure of Government currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains and losses on retranslation are Assistance included in net profit or loss for the period within other finance items.
IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is the IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for entities with a functional currency Arising on Liquidation other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
