Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 49 Foreign currency exchange differences Cautionary statement about forward-looking statements The principal subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the US dollar The Financial Statements contain certain forward-looking statements with are Chilean peso denominated, of which the most significant is Aguas fide respect to the financial position, results of operations and business of the Antofagasta S. A.
Exchange rates used to translate the results of such Group.
Examples of forward-looking statements include those regarding ore subsidiaries are given in Note 36 to the financial statements.
reserve and mineral resource estimates, anticipated production or construction commencement dates, costs, outputs, demand, trends in In 2009 the currency translation adjustment gain to net equity of US$46.1 commodity prices, growth opportunities and productive lives of assets or million resulted mainly from the strengthening in the Chilean peso during similar factors.
The words intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, the year from Ch$636 US$ at the start of 2009 to Ch$507 US$ at the end plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue, or similar of 2009.
In 2008 the currency translation adjustment charge to net equity expressions, commonly identify such forward-looking statements.
of US$41.8 million resulted mainly from the weakening in the Chilean peso during the year from Ch$497 US$ at the start of 2008 to Ch$636 US$ Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, at the end of 2008. assumptions and other factors that are beyond the Groups control.
For example, future ore reserves will be based in part on long-term price assumptions that may vary significantly from current levels.
These may Going concern materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular developments.
The Groups business activities, together with those factors likely to affect Other factors include the ability to produce and transport products profitably, its future performance, are set out in the Business Review, and details on demand for products, the effect of foreign currency exchange rates on the Principal Risks and Uncertainties relevant to the Group are set out on market prices and operating costs, activities by governmental authorities, pages 14 and 15.
Details of the cash flows of the Group during the year, such as changes in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
along with its financial position at the year-end are set out in this Financial Review.
The Directors Report includes details of the Groups capital Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results could be structure, as well as significant medium and long-term contracts with materially different from any future results expressed or implied by these customers and suppliers.
The financial statements includes details of forward-looking statements which speak only as at the date of this report.
the Groups cash and cash equivalent balances in Note 22, and details Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group does not of borrowings are set out in Note 23.
Details of the Groups financial risk undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking management including details of the management of liquidity and statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
counterparty risk, are set out in Note 25 c to the financial statements.
The Group cannot guarantee that its forward-looking statements will not differ materially from actual results.
In assessing the Groups going concern status the Directors have taken into account the above factors, including the financial position of the Group and in particular its significant net-cash position, the current copper price and market expectations in the medium term, and the Groups capital expenditure and financing plans.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
