116 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Other Information Glossary and Definitions Chilean Peso Business, Financial and Accounting Chilean currency.
ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile 2008 Combined Code and operating the water concession in Chiles Antofagasta Region acquired from ECONSSA.
The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 and applicable to listed companies for reporting years beginning on or ADR after 29 June 2008.
Companies Act 2006 AIFR Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
Compaa Minera Milpo AMSA Compaa Minera Milpo S. A.
A. of Peru is a former owner of a 18.5% interest in Caracoles, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile which acquired by the Group in February 2009. acts as the corporate centre for the mining division.
Copper project located approximately 45 kilometres east of Michilla.
Desalant Antomin Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant located in Antofagasta and acquired by the Antomin Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Jersey Group through ADASA.
Directors ATI The Directors of the Company.
Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned associate of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating the port in the city of Antofagasta.
Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, incorporated in Canada which owns the Nokomis deposit in Annual Report Minnesota, United States.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 of Antofagasta plc.
EBITDA Australian Dollars Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
ECONSSA Banco fide Chile Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. the Chilean state-owned company which Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
previously operated the regulated and non-regulated water distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region formerly known as ESSAN.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the Group in Tethyan.
El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile a wholly-owned Board subsidiary of the Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction.
The Directors of Antofagasta plc who collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business.
ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture partner of the Group in Energa Andina S. A. Capex Capital expenditure s. Energa Andina S. A. Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Caracoles Compaa Contractual Minera Caracoles, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated EPS in Chile 81.5% owned prior to February 2009 see Note 31.
Cash Costs Equatorial A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms of cents per pound of Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Australia.
Cash costs are stated net of by-product credits and include tolling charges for concentrates for Los Pelambres.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, financial income Esperanza and expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and losses and corporation tax.
Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile a whollyowned subsidiary of the Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni transaction.
CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate of Quienco.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name of ECONSSA.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 117 EU LIBOR European Union.
London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
FCA LME Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Bolivia.
FCAB Los Pelambres Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the Antofagasta Railway Company Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in the United Kingdom and operating LSE a rail network in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
FSA LTIFR Financial Services Authority.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
FTSE-100 Index Madeco A  weighted index representing the performance of the 100 largest Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Marubeni FTSE All-Share Index Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in El Tesoro and Esperanza.
A  weighted index representing the performance of all eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Metallica Resources Chile Limitada GAAP Minera Metallica Resources Chile Limitada, a subsidiary of New Gold Inc. formerly Metallica Resources Inc., a company with exploration interests in the Ro Figueroa Project.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Michilla Government Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Mirador Group Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda district.
Antofagasta plc and its subsidiaries companies.
Mulpun Hedge Accounting Coal gasification project located near Valdivia in southern Chile.
Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument permitted under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, which recognises the offsetting effects on profit Provisional Pricing or loss of changes in the fair values of a hedging instrument and the hedged item.
A sales term in several copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and cathodes IAS sale agreements which provides for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average International Accounting Standards.
molybdenum price for specific future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after IASB delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is considered International Accounting Standards Board.
to contain an embedded derivative i. e. the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted which is separated from the host contract i. e. the sale IFRIC of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRS Quienco International Financial Reporting Standards.
Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family and listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
Inversiones Hornitos Realised Prices Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate of the Group incorporated in Chile which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones under construction in Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate Chiles Antofagasta Region.
IVA Reko Diq Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Chilean VAT.
Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district in south-west Pakistan which is held through Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation Key Management Personnel of Canada, with the Government of Balochistan holding a 25% interest in the main exploration Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities licence, giving the Group an effective 37.5% interest.
Ro Figueroa KPI Ro Figueroa, an exploration project located in Chiles Atacama Region.
118 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Other Information Glossary and Definitions continued Sierra Gorda district Concentrate Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, where El Tesoro and Esperanza are The product of a physical concentration process, such as flotation or gravity concentration, located.
which involves separating ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore Sterling minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
Contained Copper Sunridge The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given quantity of ore or concentrate.
Sunridge Gold Corp, an 18%-owned associate of the Group which has a base and precious Cut-off Grade metals project in Eritrea.
The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process and used in the SVS calculation of ore reserves and mineral resources.
Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the Chilean securities regulator.
Grade A Copper Cathode TEAL Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and certificated in the case of Michilla and El Teal Exploration & Mining Incorporated, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange with Tesoro.
exploration and project interests on the Zambian Copper belt in Africa.
Greenfield Project Telgrafo The development or exploration of a new project not previously examined.
Copper prospect located in the Sierra Gorda district held through Esperanza.
Flotation Tethyan A process by which chemicals are added to materials in a solution which are attracted to Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint venture entity of the Group incorporated bubbles and float, whilst other materials sink, resulting in the production of concentrate.
Heap Leaching TSR A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share price plus reinvested impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling gravity fed chemical solution through the dividends.
The metal is then recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
Turnbull Guidance JORC The revised guidance on internal control for directors on Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
Leaching UK The process by which a soluble mineral can be economically recovered by dissolution.
LOM or Life Of Mine UKLA The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, calculated by reference to scheduled United Kingdom Listing Authority.
production rates i. e. comparing the rate at which ore is expected to be extracted from the mine to current defined reserves.
US Mineral Resources United States.
Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such form and quantity that there are US Dollars reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
Mineral resources are stated inclusive United States currency.
of ore reserves, as defined by JORC.
MW Mining Industry Megawatts one million watts.
Brownfield Project Open Pit A development or exploration project in the vicinity of an existing operation.
Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
By-products credits in copper concentrates Ore Products obtained as result of copper processing.
The Los Pelambres mine produces molybdenum concentrate and also receives credit for the gold and silver content in the copper Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
Ore Grade Copper Cathode The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an ore body or quantity of Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining of impure copper by electro-winning.
processed ore. Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 119 Ore Reserves Tolling Charges Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished metal.
These include TC RCs, demonstrate at a given date extraction could be reasonably justified and which include price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, molybdenum concentrate.
marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Underground Mine Oxide and Sulphide Ores Natural or man-made excavation under the surface of the Earth.
Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore occurs on the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the production of cathode copper through a heap-leaching Currency Abbreviations process.
Sulphide ore comes from unweathered parent ores process and normally results in US cents Cents of US Dollars.
the production of concentrate through a flotation process which then requires smelting and US$ US Dollar.
refining to produce cathode copper.
Payable Copper US$m Million US Dollars.
The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which payment is received after Pounds Sterling.
A large body of rock which contains disseminated chalcopyrite and other sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, generally in open pits, for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
Price Participation Ch$m Million Chilean Pesos.
Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under a sales agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and calculated a percentage of the difference between the copper price at final A$ Australian Dollars.
pricing and an agreed reference copper price, and which may result in an increase or A$000 Thousand Australian Dollars.
Price Sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement as an agreed percentage of the price for Definitions and Conversion of Weights and Measures the metal contained in copper concentrate, as an alternative to TC RCs and or price participation.
Run-Of-Mine ROM Ounce or oz a troy ounce.
A process for the recovery of copper from ore, typically used for low-grade ores.
The mined, uncrushed ore is leached with a chemical solution.
The metal is then recovered from the 000 m3 thousand cubic metres.
solution through the SX-EW process.
Material extracted and piled for future use.
Solvent Extraction and Electro Winning.
A process for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated in an electro chemical Chemical Symbols process electro winning to recover cathode copper.
Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as a result of the concentrating Au Gold.
process after the recoverable minerals have been extracted in concentrate form.
TC RCS Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to set the smelting and refining charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual basis or on a spot basis.
Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
