28 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Mining continued 3 Growth beyond the Core Business Reko Diq Exploration and evaluation activities The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper The Group is also undertaking exploration and Company Limited Tethyan, its joint venture with evaluation work in a number of other countries.
Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick established in Normally when the Group wishes to engage in 2006.
Tethyans principal assets are a 75% interest early-stage exploration work in areas outside of its in the exploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq traditional areas of deepest experience, namely Chile prospects in the Chagai Hills region of South-West and in previous years Peru, it typically does so through Pakistan in which the Government of Baluchistan holds partnerships with other companies already established the remaining 25% including the Western Porphyries, in those locations or otherwise with significant and a 100% interest in certain other licences in the region.
The mineral resource at Reko Diq is estimated at 5.9 billion tonnes with an average copper grade of 0.41% and an average gold grade of 0.22 g tonne United States Nokomis deposit Duluth Metals Limited at a cut-off grade of 0.20% copper equivalent 2008 4.1 billion tonnes Subsequent to the year end, on 14 January 2010 the Group signed a legally with an average copper grade of 0.50% and an average gold grade of binding Heads of Agreement HoA with Duluth Metals Limited Duluth 0.298 g tonne, and the Groups attributable share of this joint venture Metals, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX to acquire interest amounts to 2.2 billion tonnes 2008 1.5 billion tonnes.
an interest in Duluth Metals Nokomis  group metal The increase compared with 2008 is primarily due to the inclusion of three PGM deposit Nokomis.
neighbouring deposits H13, Tanjeel also referred to as H4 and H8 Nokomis is a potentially world-class base and precious metal deposit located into the resource estimate, along with the existing H14 and H15 deposits.
in the highly prospective Duluth Complex in north-eastern Minnesota.
The Groups 50% share of expenditure relating to Tethyan during 2009 Duluth Metals published a NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate for amounted to US$36.6 million.
This includes US$32.5 million relating to Nokomis in October 2009 which consisted of 550 million tonnes of indicated exploration and pre-feasibility costs which have been expensed and US$4.1 resources with average grades of 0.639% for copper, 0.200% for nickel and million relating to the costs of the feasibility study which have been capitalised.
0.660 grams per tonne for platinum, palladium and gold, plus an additional 274 million tonnes of inferred resources with average grades of 0.632% for Work on the feasibility study and the related environmental and social impact copper, 0.207% for nickel and 0.685 grams per tonne for platinum, assessment study is in its final stages.
Discussions for agreements with the palladium and gold.
relevant authorities in Pakistan are continuing, as agreement has not yet been reached concerning a mineral agreement and the conversion of the The Group will initially become a 40% partner in Nokomis by committing exploration licence encompassing Reko Diq which currently expires in to fund a total of US$130 million of further exploration and feasibility study February 2011 into a mining lease.
expenditure over a three year period.
The Group will have the option to acquire an additional 25% interest in Nokomis to own in aggregate 65% at the then net present value of the project based on operating parameters outlined in the bankable feasibility study, which will become exercisable and payable upon receipt of the required permits to develop the project.
The Group has also subscribed for approximately 6.55 million new ordinary shares in Duluth Metals by way of a private placement and a subsequent anti-dilution pre-emptive subscription at Cdn$2.00 per share in cash, to become an approximately 7% shareholder in Duluth Metals.
The Group and Duluth Metals expect to establish the project company and conclude a definitive Participation and Shareholder Agreement in the second quarter of 2010.
Chagai Hills region of South-West Pakistan Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 29 Other international exploration agreements Opportunities in geothermal and coal exploration and generation The Group has made significant progress during 2009 in expanding its portfolio of early-stage international exploration interests through a number The Group is also continuing with its exploration and development activities of exploration agreements.
relating to geothermal and coal energy prospects.
In November 2009 the Group entered into an agreement with International Energa Andina S. A, the joint venture between the Group and the Chilean Base Metals Limited IBML of Australia in respect of its Kopermyn mining state-owned Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP, is continuing with its property in northern Namibia.
The Group can earn up to a 60% interest in activities for the exploration and development of geothermal energy prospects the property over a two year period by funding up to US$1.8 million of in Chile.
Following initial exploration work Energa Andina opted to apply for exploration activities, with a minimum commitment of US$0.5 million.
further concessions, and during 2009 was granted the Puchuldiza Sur 1 concession, increasing its total number of concessions to eight.
The company The Group entered into an agreement with Ormonde Mining plc Ormonde is currently engaged in the application process for additional concessions, in respect of its La Zarza deposit in southern Spain during October 2009. which could further enhance its exploration portfolio.
During 2010 the The Group has the right to earn a 51% interest in the deposit over a three company intends to continue its exploration activities, both to evaluate its year period by funding US$7 million of exploration and subsequent evaluation existing concessions, with a view to commencing drilling work, and also to activities, with a minimum commitment of US$1 million in the first year.
Antofagasta will have the right to increase further its interest in the La Zarza project to 75% by funding a feasibility study for the project.
Work is continuing on the potential underground coal gasification project at the Mulpun coalfield, situated near Valdivia in southern Chile.
The Group In September 2009 the Group entered into an agreement with Sunridge Gold acquired an option over this deposit in 2008.
During 2009 the Group Corp Sunridge.
The Group can earn an initial 60% interest in Sunridges completed its initial hydrology studies for the project, which included the Asmara project in Eritrea by funding US$10 million of exploration work over a drilling of six wells.
In December 2009 the Group entered into an agreement five year period, and a further 15% interest for an aggregate 75% interest in with Carbon Energy Limited Carbon Energy of Australia in respect of the the project by delivering a feasibility study on the project.
Carbon Energy can earn a 30% stake in the deposit through the Group acquired approximately 18% of the issued share capital of contributing its underground coal gasification technology to the project, Sunridge under a private placement for a consideration of US$5.0 million.
and will fund 30% of the development costs of a trial project.
During 2010 During March 2009 the Group entered into an agreement with Almaden the Group is planning to undertake engineering studies in relation to the Minerals Ltd Almaden in respect of the Tuligtic copper-gold project in trial project, and commence environmental permitting.
Following the review of initial drilling results, the Group has decided not to proceed further with this project.
In 2008 the Group entered into an agreement with TEAL Exploration & Mining Incorporated TEAL to acquire an initial interest in two of TEALs exploration licences on the Zambian Copperbelt, and the Group is continuing to review the potential of these deposits.
