68 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements IAS 38 amended 2008 Intangible Assets 1 Basis of Preparation IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement eligible a Accounting standards applied hedged items The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial IAS 40 amended 2008 Investment Property Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the Standards issued IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and Interpretations issued by the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation by the European Union EU.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing the Groups going concern status are set out 2 Principal Accounting Policies on page 49 of the Financial Review.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and a Accounting convention Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention not yet effective: as modified by the use of fair values to measure certain financial instruments, principally Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 d and financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 s. IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements b Basis of consolidation IAS 28 revised 2008 Investments in Associates The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has power to govern The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future the operating and financial policies in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for: The consolidated financial statements include all the assets, liabilities, revenues, IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations.
This standard will affect the treatment of expenses and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating business combinations which take place in periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009, inter-company balances and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets when the revised standard comes into effect.
and net earnings attributable to minority shareholders are presented as Minority Interests IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This standard will in the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated income statement.
affect the accounting for transactions or events that result in a change in the Groups ii A ssociates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise interests in its subsidiaries.
significant influence, but not control or jointly control, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
The Groups share of the net b Adoption of new accounting standards assets, the results post tax and post acquisition reserves of associates are included in the In the current financial year the Group has adopted the following standards that have affected financial statements.
This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group the presentation and disclosure in these financial statements: and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reflect IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
In the current year the Group has adopted IFRS 8.
The standard the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment of goodwill and any other requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Antofagasta plc board to allocate iii Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The adoption of IFRS 8 has not holds a long-term interest and shares joint control over the operating and financial resulted in any changes to segments previously disclosed, but has resulted in further decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
disclosures on each of these segments and these are set out in Note 4.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation, which IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements.
In the current year the Group has combines the Groups share of the results of the jointly controlled entity on a line by line adopted IAS 1 revised, which separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
The statement of changes in equity details transactions with owners, with all non-owner iv Other investments The accounting treatment of investments which are not subsidiaries, changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the Standard introduces a statement associates or jointly controlled entities is set out in Note 2 s relating to other financial of comprehensive income, which presents all items of income and expense which are not instruments.
recognised in the income statement.
v Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in The following standards and interpretations are effective but have not had any significant Note 2 e relating to business combinations and goodwill.
impact on the financial statements: IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly c Currency translation Controlled Entity or Associate The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions other than those in the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional IAS 20 amended 2008 Accounting for Governments and Disclosure of Government currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains and losses on retranslation are Assistance included in net profit or loss for the period within other finance items.
IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is the IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for entities with a functional currency Arising on Liquidation other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
Balance Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 69 sheet items are translated at period end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation f Intangible assets of the net assets of such entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate currency i Concession right In 2003, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta translation reserve.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition date to IFRS S. A. was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the are recognised as income or as expenses in the income statement in the period in which an Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled by Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios operation is disposed.
On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between Group All infrastructure assets relating to the Water concession are recorded within intangible entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part of the net investment assets, as part of the concession right.
The concession right also includes an amount in a foreign operation, i. e. where settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the recognised in respect of the right to use those assets not recognised as their lives extend foreseeable future.
All other exchange gains and losses on Group balances are dealt with substantially beyond the period of the concession.
The concession right is measured as in the income statement.
the difference between the cost of the concession and the fair values of the assets and Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated liabilities recognised on acquisition plus the fair value of any further assets transferred as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the period end rate.
to the Group by way of concession subsequent to acquisition.
ii E xploration licences In 2006, the Group acquired Tethyan Copper Company Limited d Revenue recognition Tethyan, a company with copper-gold interests in Pakistan, and entered into a joint Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties during the year.
venture over Tethyans mineral interests with Barrick Gold Corporation through the disposal Turnover is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, and excludes of a 50% interest in Tethyan.
An intangible asset has been recognised for the Groups any applicable sales tax.
proportionate share of the full unencumbered value attributed to the interest in the A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed.
This is exploration licences held by Tethyan in Pakistan, along with related rights acquired generally when title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have subsequently.
In addition, the intangible asset balance also includes amounts relating been delivered to a contractually agreed location or when any services have been provided.
to interests in other prospecting licences.
Turnover from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an adjustment for g Exploration and evaluation expenditure provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
For copper and molybdenum Exploration and evaluation are expensed in the year in which it is incurred.
When a decision concentrates, which are sold to smelters and roasting plants for further processing, the is taken that a mining project is commercially viable normally when the project has reached invoiced amount is the market value of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions the pre-feasibility stage all further directly attributable pre-production expenditure for tolling charges.
Turnover includes revenues from the sale of by-products.
Capitalisation of pre-production expenditure ceases when commercial levels Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements of production are achieved.
generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average h Property, plant and equipment market molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from 30 to 180 The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring and developing days after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an embedded derivative mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the which is required to be separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale of year in which they are incurred.
metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling The cost of plant, property and equipment comprises the purchase price and any costs directly charges deducted, and the embedded derivative is the forward contract for which the attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of provisional sale is subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal operating in the manner intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, sales together with any related tolling charges are marked-to-market, with adjustments both related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred in preparing the gains and losses being recorded in turnover in the consolidated income statement and in trade site for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
Capitalisation ceases when the mine debtors in the balance sheet.
Forward prices at the period end are used for copper concentrate is capable of commercial production, with the exception of development costs which give rise and cathode sales, while period-end average prices are used for molybdenum concentrate to a future benefit.
sales due to the absence of a futures market.
Interest on borrowings directly related to construction or development of projects is capitalised, Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale which, in the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash case of mining properties, is when they are capable of commercial production.
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
i Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders right to receive assets payment has been established.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life e Business combinations and goodwill of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major categories of property, plant and i Acquisitions The results of businesses acquired during the year are brought into the equipment are depreciated as follows: consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable i Land Freehold land is not depreciated.
Any leasehold land is depreciated on a assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture entity or an associate straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
which can be measured reliably are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of ii M ining properties mining properties, including capitalised financing costs, are acquisition.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in ii G oodwill Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair the year compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
is separately disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition of associates is included within investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis over 20 to 25 years.
Where the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired exceed the cost of the acquisition, the surplus which represents the discount on the acquisition is credited to v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
the income statement in the period of acquisition.
vi Machinery, equipment and other assets straight-line basis over 5 to 10 years.
iii Disposals The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available for use.
consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective date of disposal.
viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the difference between the sales proceeds and their useful life.
net of expenses and the net assets attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at least annually, operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity are shown separately in and changes to residual values and useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
70 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary 2 Principal Accounting Policies continued differences with certain limited exceptions as follows: j Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures is goodwill provided except where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed for impairment if probable that there will be no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future: there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication ii d eferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the that does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination: impairment if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from nor is deferred tax provided on subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which and liabilities, for example where they are depreciated: and the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value, using a recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the For mining properties, estimates of future cash flows are based on assumptions as to expected liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income production levels, commodity prices, cash costs of production and capital expenditure.
IAS 36 statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which Impairment of Assets includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that can be case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement related expenditure.
When n Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs calculating value in use, it also requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates An obligation to incur decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs occurs when current at the time of assessment.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining dollar, the impairment review is conducted in the relevant functional currency.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its formal review.
carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount.
An impairment Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to charge is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently their net present value, are provided and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but obligation to incur such costs arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have over the life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of in the income statement immediately.
the discount is included as financing costs.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating k Investment property to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation and includes the cost of the related asset in the current period.
land held for a currently undetermined future use.
The Group has elected to adopt the cost The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing basis during model in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured initially production, are provided for at their net present values and charged against operating profits at cost, which includes transaction costs for the acquisition of the property and, as detailed in as extraction progresses.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to site damage Note 2 i relating to property, plant and equipment, is not depreciated.
created during production is charged against operating profit.
l Inventory o Provision for termination of Water concession Inventory and work-in-progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Under the terms of the Water concession from ECONSSA, certain items of working capital Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta as described in Note 2 f above are to be transferred to and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The production cost of inventory the state-owned operator ECONSSA at the end of the concession period for nil consideration.
includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Raw materials Provision is made for the estimated net present value of these assets and liabilities which are and consumables are valued at cost on a weighted average basis.
Finished products are valued expected to be in existence when the concession comes to an end.
The unwinding of the at raw material cost, plus labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses discount is charged within financing costs.
p Post-employment benefits m Taxation The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the period relating to both current and For such schemes, the amount charged to the income statement is the contributions paid deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ from net profit Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year are taxable and deductible in different years and also excludes items that are not taxable of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and or deductible.
The liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates for each entity in the based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded consolidated financial statements which have been enacted or substantively enacted at defined benefit plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent the balance sheet date.
actuary using the projected unit credit method which are regularly updated.
The obligation Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences i. e. recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the severance indemnity differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in the income statement and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is within operating cost.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 71 q Cash and cash equivalents vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 25 e, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, highly commodity price movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are trading purposes.
subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and cash equivalents normally have a maturity period of three months or less.
The Group applies the hedge accounting provisions and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash r Leases flows are recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement account in equal income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective annual amounts over the term of the lease.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement are recorded within turnover.
Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments derived by The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element is charged within the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income financing costs so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance statement within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of s Other financial instruments host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when reported in the income statement for the period.
The treatment of embedded derivatives the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
arising from provisionally-priced commodity sales contracts is set out in further detail in i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are Note 2 d relating to turnover.
initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at fair value through Investments are classified as either held for trading or available for sale, and are normally profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or manner described in Note 25 b.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For loans and receivables the are measured at cost.
amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying value and the Securities are classified as held-for-trading when they are acquired principally for the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest purpose of sale in the short term, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value rate.
Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
are included in the income statement for the period.
Other investments are classified as The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables.
directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, until the security is disposed of or is With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised Dividends on available-for-sale equity investments are recognised in the income statement impairment loss is reversed through the income statement immediately to the extent that when the right to receive payment is established.
the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not generally carry any exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been interest and are normally stated at their nominal value less any impairment.
In respect of available-for-sale equity instruments, any increase in fair value losses on trade receivables are recognised within an allowance account unless the Group subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
considers that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying value of the asset is reduced directly.
iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally not interest bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective interest rate method.
Amounts are either recorded as financing costs in the income statement or capitalised in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 h. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a fixed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified within borrowings and translated into US dollars at period end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are included within finance costs.
v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments of the Company comprise its sterlingdenominated issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 c, the presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange based on dates of issue.
