Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 7 Growth beyond the Core Business 3 The third aspect of the strategy is to look for growth beyond the areas of its existing operations both in Chile and internationally.
The primary focus is on potential early-stage developments.
Reko Diq Other exploration and evaluation activities The feasibility study and the environmental and social impact assessment study are The Group is undertaking extensive in their final stages with negotiations exploration work throughout the world.
continuing for agreements with relevant The Groups internal team conducts authorities for a mineral agreement and exploration on its own account principally mining lease.
The mineral resource in Chile.
The Group has also been growing estimate at Reko Diq is 5.9 billion tonnes its portfolio of international early-stage with an average copper grade of 0.41% exploration agreements.
and an average gold grade of 0.22g t. In January 2010 a Heads of Agreement Page 28 was signed with Duluth Metals Limited to acquire an interest in the Nokomis deposit in the United States.
Page 28 8 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Strategy for the Mining Business continued The Group uses the following enablers to support our strategy: Quality of existing assets Strong financial position Experienced Extensive mineral management team resource base The Group has a high-quality, The Group has a strong balance low-cost portfolio of operating assets sheet, with net cash of $1.6 billion The Groups stable, well-established The Group has substantial mineral and development projects, with a at the end of 2009.
Its strong management team has an excellent resources, well in excess of the ore weighted average net cash cost of financial position has allowed it track record of delivering on planned reserves incorporated in existing 96.3 cents lb in 2009.
This means to maintain its growth plans in full, production growth and operational mine plans, which could provide it is well positioned to perform despite the difficult financial markets.
the potential for expansions in strongly throughout the commodity It further strengthened its position production volumes or extensions Page 5 price cycle.
The Esperanza project through two major financings of existing mine lives.
will add additional new production for a total of US$1.8 billion.
Page 26 to 29 and Page 108 to 113 also with a low net cash cost.
Page 48 Page 17 to 25 Commitment to Strong labour relations Community relations Efficient environmental health and safety management The Group values the importance The Group seeks to manage of its workforce.
The Group provides the social impact of its activities, Management of health and safety The Group recognises the its employees with training and and aims to make use of its is a key priority for the Group.
importance of the effective opportunities to fulfil their potential, operations as a platform for the The Group aims to work to the management of the environmental and with fair remuneration which social and economic development highest standards to safeguard impacts of its activities, from reflects their contribution.
This has of its local communities.
its employees, contractors exploration through to closure.
been reflected in the good history and communities.
It promotes efficient management Page 38 of labour relations across the Group.
of natural resources, in particular Page 36 energy efficiency and responsible Page 36 and 37 water use.
Page 39 to 41 Social and environmental strategy The Group recognises that achieving its strategic plan depends on effective management of social and environmental issues, and during 2009 the mining division approved a social and environmental strategy which is integral to its business plan.
This sets out the Groups objective to create economic, social and environmental value as a participant of the mining sector.
