Llano Tesoro NE Paleocanal El Tesoro Esperanza Mirador Telgrafo Telgrafo Sur Norte Caracoles Centinela Polo-Sur Types of interest Operation Project under construction Exploration mineral inventory 26 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review Mining continued 2 Organic and sustainable growth of the Core Business Caracoles is situated approximately 10 kilometres south-east of Esperanza, Sierra Gorda District and was identified by the Groups exploration team in 2007.
In February 2009, the Group consolidated its interest in Caracoles to 100% by acquiring The Groups primary focus for exploration in Chile the remaining 18.5% interest from Compaa Minera Milpo of Peru S. A.
A. remains the Sierra Gorda District, where El Tesoro and for a cash consideration of US$25.0 million.
During 2009 total exploration spend amounted to US$14.3 million.
The total mineral inventory at the Esperanza are located.
Promising exploration results deposit is estimated at between 0.71.1 billion tonnes, with a corresponding have been obtained from drilling programmes at the copper grade of between 0.60% and 0.49%.
It is anticipated that a Caracoles, Mirador and Telgrafo deposits.
These could pre-feasibility study in respect of the deposit could commence later in 2010, following the incorporation of the results of the 2009 drilling programme into eventually provide further resources to extend the life a block model and potentially into a mineral resources estimate by the first or scale of the existing El Tesoro and Esperanza plants, half of this year.
Depending on the results of this work, it will be possible to or for additional stand-alone operations in the future.
evaluate whether the deposit could provide additional feed for the Esperanza plant, or support a stand-alone project.
The Group owns or controls a number of properties The Mirador oxide deposit, located approximately five kilometres east of in the Sierra Gorda District and during 2009 a total of Tesoro North-East and 100% owned by the Group, was identified by the US$20.4 million of exploration expenditure was incurred Groups exploration team in 2008.
Following completion of in-fill drilling work in April 2009, the decision was taken to proceed with a feasibility in respect of this district, predominantly in respect of study, evaluating the potential for processing the oxides from this deposit the Caracoles deposit.
It is expected that this feasibility study could be completed during the first half of 2010.
The deposit has total mineral resources of 32 million tonnes, with an average copper grade of 1.04% at a cut-off grade of 0.20%.
There is a relatively limited amount of overburden above the deposit, and so only a comparatively low level of pre-stripping is likely to be required to exploit the deposit.
Mirador could provide additional higher grade feed for the El Tesoro plant, to supplement the existing ore reserves at the original El Tesoro pit and the Tesoro North-East satellite deposit, which have an average grade of 0.77% copper.
Work is also continuing to explore for sulphide potential at Mirador.
PERU BOLIVIA ARGENTINA Drilling work in the Sierra Gorda District CHILE Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 27 The mineral inventory at Telgrafo Sur is estimated at between Michilla Antucoya 1,1001,600 million tonnes, with a corresponding copper grade of between 0.45% and 0.38%, and at Telgrafo Norte is estimated at between Michilla district 330660 million tonnes, with a corresponding copper grade of between Michilla is currently carrying out studies to examine the potential to utilise 0.44% and 0.34%, along with gold and molybdenum credits.
The Telgrafo its existing mineral resources to further extend the life of the operation from Sur and Telgrafo Norte deposits are adjacent to Esperanza and, as explained 2012 through to 2018.
The Group has also conducted exploration at Michilla above, could extend the life of Esperanza beyond its current mine plan.
in previous years which has identified some prospects which could eventually These deposits are owned through Minera Esperanza and hence the Groups supplement the existing mineral resources at Michilla.
The mineral inventory interest is 70%.
A drilling programme totalling 24,100 metres was carried at these deposits is currently estimated at between 20 to 33 million tonnes, out during 2009, which will allow the completion of the geological model with a corresponding average copper grade of between 1.25% and 1.02%.
and the calculation of a mineral resource estimate which is expected in the first half of 2010.
Additional drilling work will continue throughout Antucoya 2010 with a view to further recategorisation of any mineral resources Antucoya is an oxide deposit located approximately 45 kilometres east which could potentially lead to the initiation of pre-feasibility work during of Michilla.
The deposit has a mineral resource of 1.5 billion tonnes, with the course of 2011. an average copper grade of 0.27% at a cut-off grade of 0.10%.
Exploration work is also continuing at other targets and potential deposits Studies initially intended to bring the Antucoya project to feasibility stage in the district.
With combined total mineral resources for Esperanza, were started in 2008, which to date have examined a number of options El Tesoro and Mirador of over 1.5 billion tonnes and a mineral inventory which included a ROM operation to produce enriched copper solution which for other prospects in the range of 2.6 to 4.1 billion tonnes, the Sierra could be processed at Michillas SX-EW plant as well as a stand-alone Gorda district provides a range of good opportunities for growth in the SX-EW project to produce copper cathodes.
In August 2009 a budget of medium and longer term.
US$19.8 million was approved to progress with a full feasibility study for a stand-alone project, based on a combination of heap leaching on dynamic Los Pelambres District pads and ROM leaching on permanent pads.
The environmental permitting process for the feasibility study is currently Los Pelambres has total mineral resources of 6.2 billion tonnes with an in progress.
It is expected that during 2010 a test pit will be constructed average copper grade of 0.52%.
This includes mineral resources at the at the deposit, to allow the extraction of ore for metallurgical testwork.
existing open pit, and neighbouring deposits including the Frontera deposit, The feasibility study is expected to be completed by mid-2011.
which were identified following an exploration programme between 2006 and 2008.
The increase in mineral resources from the amounts reported in 2008 4.9 billion tonnes with an average copper grade of 0.56% is principally due to a reduction in the cut-off grade from 0.40% to 0.35%, as well as the incorporation of low grade stockpiles 42 million tonnes and updates to the block model.
These mineral resources are significantly greater than the 1.5 billion tonnes of ore reserves currently incorporated in Los Pelambres mine plan.
Group exploration expenditure While the scale of the mineral resource has no immediate impact on the US$ million existing mine plan for Los Pelambres, it presents opportunities for longer term planning either by providing additional material in future years to extend 60 the existing mine life, or by enabling Los Pelambres in the longer term to 50 consider possibilities for future growth.
