72 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs 3 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty As explained in Note 2 n, provision is made, based on net present values, for decommissioning Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements involves the use of and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation arises following the development or judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements ongoing production of a mining property.
The provision is based on a closure plan prepared best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, but with the assistance of external consultants.
actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the case of capitalised about such judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting policies in Note 2 decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs over the life of the mine.
The ultimate or the other notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are set out below.
cost of decommissioning and site rehabilitation cost is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence a Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment and ore reserves of new restoration techniques or experience at other mine sites.
estimates The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example in response As explained in Note 2 i, mining properties, including capitalised financing costs, are to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there could be significant depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven adjustments to the provisions established which would affect future financial results.
and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and assumptions that d Post employment benefits were valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
As explained in Note 2 p, the expected costs of severance indemnities relating to These include assumptions as to grade estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, employee service during the period are charged to the income statement.
Any actuarial commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and gains or losses, which can arise from differences between expected and actual outcomes reclamation costs and discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately within operating costs in these assumptions could affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set in consultation with an independent basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful actuary.
These include the selection of the discount rate used, service lives and expected economic lives at least annually and, again, any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates of salary increases.
While management believes the assumptions used are appropriate, rates and asset carrying values.
a change in the assumptions used would impact the earnings of the Group.
b Impairment of assets e Deferred taxation As explained in Note 2 j, the Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible assets and As explained in Note 2 m, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable on undistributed property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that those assets earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that are impaired.
In making assessments for impairment, assets that do not generate independent there will be no remittance of past profits earned in the foreseeable future.
cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable Management uses its judgement in estimating the probability of such remittances.
These are amount of those assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell based on Group forecasts and include assumptions as to future profits and cash flows which and value in use.
depend on several factors including commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating capital expenditures, interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash requirements the probability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount which may also depend on several factors including future dividend levels.
A change in the rates to be applied within the value in use calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note assumptions used or in the estimate as to the probability that past profits will be remitted 2 j and Note 5.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or estimates and assumptions in the would impact the deferred tax charge and balance sheet provision.
value in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
