108 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Other Information Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates At 31 December 2009 Introduction Definitions and Categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in this report comply with the A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest requirements of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects and Ore Reserves 2004 edition the JORC Code which has been used by the Group as for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and minimum standard for the preparation and disclosure of the information contained herein.
continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological The definitions and categories of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are set out below.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
The Competent Persons An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade have sufficient experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
The Competent Persons consent geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
to the inclusion in this report of the matters based on their information in the form and context It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such in which it appears.
The Competent Person for Exploration Results and Mineral Resources as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain is Jorge Artal MAusIMM, Senior Geologist for Antofagasta Minerals S. A..
The Competent quality and reliability.
Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
Ontario, Technical Manager Operations An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive programme of audits reasonable level of confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and testing information aimed at providing assurance in respect of ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, The audits are conducted by suitably qualified Competent Persons from within a particular workings and drill holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm division, another division of the Company or from independent consultants.
geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough for continuity to be assumed.
The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full reserves and resources, A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, not the Groups attributable share for each mine.
The Groups economic interest in each mine densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a is disclosed in the notes following the estimates on pages 111 to 113.
The totals in the table high level of confidence.
It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing may include some small apparent differences as the specific individual figures have not information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, been rounded.
trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and grade continuity.
An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
The cut off grade applied to the determination of ore pound in 2008 and US$650 per gold ounce US$600 per gold ounce in 2008.
Unless reserves and mineral resources is 0.40% Cu for the open pit, 1.2% Cu for the underground otherwise noted, these same values have been used for copper equivalent CuEq estimates.
mine and 1.0% Cu for other workings.
During the first quarter of 2009, operations were suspended at the high-cost Lince open-pit, as a reaction to the significant drop in copper prices.
a Los Pelambres The most significant change to the ore reserves and mineral resources estimates has been Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination the change in the expectation of mineral resources potentially exploitable by open pit methods.
of ore reserves and mineral resources for 2009 was 0.35% Cu vs. 0.40% Cu in 2008.
This, along with investment in in-fill drilling of 302 drill holes for a total of 24,117 metres and For 2009 there have been two important changes, the first is a decrease in the cut-off evaluation studies to upgrade mineral resources to ore reserves, has resulted in a significant grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources to 0.35% Cu from change in both ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
the 0.40% Cu cut-off used in 2008, while the second is the incorporation of low grade Despite depletion of 5.3 million tonnes of ore reserves as feed to the Michilla plant, ore stockpiles into the estimates.
reserves have increased by 1.6 million tonnes.
While previous ore reserves estimates included Partially as a result of these changes, the proved and probable ore reserves have increased an expansion to the open-pit, 2009 ore reserves include only remnant reserves in the existing by 52 million tonnes, despite depletion through the year of 47 million tonnes as mill feed.
pit phases that have not yet been exploited.
The reduction in open-pit reserves has been The difference consists of an additional 34 million tonnes in stockpiled ore reserves, an more than offset by an increase in underground reserves both at the Estefana deposit additional 33 million tonnes due to a change in cut-off grade and the remaining difference which includes the Lince open-pit and also an increase in ore reserves in other workings attributable to updates to the block model with the inclusion of in-fill drilling of 27 drill holes satellite deposits mined by third-party operators.
Total mineral resources have decreased by 19.1 million tonnes, but there has also been a The increase in total mineral resources of 1,305 million tonnes is primarily due the decrease corresponding increase in grade, to 2.27% Cu from 1.46% Cu.
This reflects the reduction in in cut-off grade 1,121 million tonnes, as well as the incorporation of low grade stockpiles mineral resources potentially exploitable by open-pit methods, with a cut-off grade of 0.40%, 42 million tonnes and updates to the block model, offset by depletion of 47 million tonnes.
and an inclusion of this portion of the deposit in the mineral resources potentially exploitable The in the Resource Table indicates that the gold grades for the Inferred Resource Category by underground methods, with a cut-off grade in this case of 1.0% Cu.
Part of the decrease were still under review at the time of publication for the 2008 estimate.
An additional change is also associated with the depletion of 5.3 million tonnes of feed to the Michilla plant.
for the 2009 estimates is the elimination of the silver estimates from the table and a reduction d Esperanza sulphides in significant figures used in the gold estimates.
This is to better reflect the accuracy of the ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
Esperanza is 70% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of ore reserves and minerals resources in 2009 was 0.20% equivalent copper.
b El Tesoro There have been no changes to either the mineral resources or ore reserves estimates during El Tesoro is 70% owned by the Group.
The ore reserves and mineral resources are made up the year for Esperanza, which is currently in the pre-stripping phase, preparing for start of of the El Tesoro and Tesoro North-East deposits, which are processed by heap leaching, and operations at the end of 2010. the Run-of-Mine ROM Oxide ore reserves and mineral resources from the Esperanza Project, located five kilometres south-east of El Tesoro.
An agreement was entered into in 2008 e Reko Diq whereby the Esperanza Oxide mineral resources were purchased by El Tesoro for a one-time The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, its joint payment.
Esperanza will deliver the ROM ore released during the pre-stripping and operating venture with Barrick Gold Corporation established in 2006.
Tethyans principal assets are a phases of the Esperanza Project to a permanent leach pad constructed and operated by the 75% interest in the exploration licence encompassing the Reko Diq prospects in the Chagai El Tesoro mine.
Hills region of South-West Pakistan in which the Government of Balochistan holds the The cut-off grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources for the remaining 25% including the Western Porphyries, and a 100% interest in certain other El Tesoro open pits is 0.41% Cu.
Proved and probable ore reserves for the El Tesoro open licences in the region.
pits decreased by 12.8 million tonnes, reflecting depletion of 8.3 million tonnes mill feed from A feasibility study was initiated in February 2008.
The feasibility study is now under review El Tesoro pits and stockpiles plus additional adjustments to the block models and pit designs by the joint venture partners and efforts to work with the government to advance the project for Tesoro and Tesoro North-East pits with the inclusion of in-fill drilling of 17 drill holes for remain in progress, although agreement concerning a mining licence and mineral agreement a total of 2,812 metres.
The cut-off grade used for estimation of both ore reserves and mineral resources for the The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.20% copper El Tesoro ROM Esperanza Oxides is 0.20% Cu.
Proved and probable ore reserves for the equivalent.
For Reko Diq, copper equivalent values are calculated based on a copper price El Tesoro ROM increased by 1.8 million tonnes, with a significant increase in proved reserves, of 190 cents per pound and a gold price of US$725 per gold ounce.
The mineral resources primarily as a result of the increase in confidence due to the blast hole assay information are those contained within un-smoothed optimised pit shells using the same prices.
generated during the pre-stripping operations of the Esperanza pit.
During the year, 39.8 For 2009, the orebody H13, which is contiguous with H14 and H15 and known collectively million tonnes of oxide ore reserves were extracted from the Esperanza pit, of which 1.5 million as Western Porphyries, has been incorporated into the mineral resources estimate, along with tonnes were delivered directly to the El Tesoro heap leach pads and subsequently depleted, two other satellite deposits, Tanjeel also referred to as H4 and H8.
The increase in mineral 7.8 million tonnes were delivered to the ROM leach pads and have been partially leached and resources of 1,752 million tonnes is principally due to the incorporation of these deposits a further 30.5 million tonnes have been delivered to the ROM leach pads or stockpiles and 764 million tonnes for H13, 148 million tonnes for Tanjeel and 841 million tonnes for H8.
have not yet been put under leach.
Total mineral resources for El Tesoro open pits decreased by 12.4 million tonnes, while total mineral resources for El Tesoro ROM decreased by 3.8 million tonnes for a total decrease of 16.2 million tonnes.
The decrease in mineral resources is a result of the same impacts as the decrease in ore reserves, depletion of 9.7 million tonnes feed to the Tesoro heap leach operation plus adjustments to the block models.
112 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Other Information Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Estimates continued At 31 December 2009 f Mirador Mirador is a project which was reported in 2008 in Other Mineral Inventory and is owned 100% by the Group.
Since then, a feasibility study has been started, which is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2010.
With a total of 304 drill holes for a total of 78,323 metres, the mineral resources in the table are slightly higher in both tonnes and grade than the ranges reported in 2008.
The cut-off grade applied to the mineral resources estimate is 0.20% Cu and include those mineral resources contained within an un-smoothed, optimized pit shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
Both the feasibility study and the mineral resources in the table are focused on the known oxide resources.
There is an ongoing exploration programme targeted on the underlying sulphide resources.
g Antucoya Antucoya is a project which was reported in 2008 in Other Mineral Inventory and is owned 100% by the Group.
Since then, a feasibility study has been started and is expected to take another year and a half to complete.
The concept for processing is a combination of heap leaching on dynamic pads and run-of-mine ROM leaching on permanent pads.
The cut-off grade applied to the mineral resources estimate is 0.10% Cu and include those mineral resources contained within an un-smoothed, optimised pit shell using a copper price of 250 cents per pound.
The mineral resources estimate is significantly higher in tonnage than the range reported in 2008 mostly due to the application of a lower cut-off grade, which is consistent with the ROM leach processing concept.
The grade estimate is below the range reported in 2008, reflecting the impact of a lower cut-off grade.
h Other Mineral Inventory In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the termination of a mineral resource.
These include: i In the Sierra Gorda District In the Sierra Gorda district the Group has one operation El Tesoro and one project under construction Esperanza and others in exploration or under study, such as: Llano-Paleocanal, Telegrafo Norte and Telegrafo Sur 70% owned by the Group : Centinela 51% owned by the Group : and Polo Sur and Caracoles 100% owned by the Group.
The Mineral Inventory of these deposits is estimated to be in the range of 2.6 to 4.1 billion tonnes with grades in the range of 0.5% to 0.4% copper.
An in-fill drilling programme, consisting of 39 drill holes totalling 24,122 metres, was carried out during 2009 to provide input for a mineral resources estimate for the Telgrafo Sur deposit as part of an ongoing pre-feasibility study.
It is expected that a mineral resources estimate for Telgrafo Sur will be ready for publication by the end of the first quarter of 2010.
At Caracoles during 2009 a further 91,700 metres of drilling in 128 drill holes was carried out which are not included in the table below.
It is anticipated that a pre-feasibility study could commence during 2010, including the incorporation of the results from the 2009 drilling campaign into a block model and potentially into a mineral resources estimate.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, the number of drill holes and associated metres drilled, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Ownership Tonnes range Grade range Number Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres % Llano Paleocanal 90 140 0.51 0.41 67 12,400 70.0 Telgrafo Norte 330 660 0.44 0.34 20 8,500 70.0 Telgrafo Sur 1,100 1,600 0.45 0.38 90 52,300 70.0 Centinela 60 100 0.76 0.63 36 9,900 51.0 Polo Sur 300 450 0.50 0.41 200 50,500 100.0 Caracoles 700 1,100 0.60 0.49 133 62,900 100.0 Total 2,580 4,050 0.50 0.41 546 196,500 ii In the Michilla District In the Michilla district there are several satellite deposits to the main Michilla orebody that have been included in the Mineral Resources Table.
However, there are other two mineral deposits within a potentially economic radius of the Michilla mine: Aurora within the Michilla property and Rencoret.
Rencoret and Aurora are mantle-style deposits with associated high-grade copper brechas, similar to the main Michilla orebody.
The Mineral Inventory of these mineral deposits is estimated to be in the range of 20 to 33 million tonnes with grades in the range of 1.2% to 1.0% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, as well as The Groups ownership interest: Ownership Tonnes range Grade range Number Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Aurora 5 8 1.36 1.11 38 13,400 74.2 Total 20 33 1.25 1.02 69 21,700 Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 113 iii In the El Abra District The Group has two mineral deposits within a few kilometres of the El Abra orebody, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
Conchi is a porphyry copper mineral deposit and Brujulina is an exotic-style mineral deposit.
The Mineral Inventory of these mineral deposits is estimated to be in the range of 0.5 to 0.7 billion tonnes with grades in the range of 0.7% to 0.5% copper.
The table below lists each of the mineral deposits with its associated tonnage and grade ranges, as well as the Groups ownership interest: Tonnes range Grade range Number Total Ownership Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu drill holes metres interest % Conchi 440 660 0.67 0.55 123 30,950 51.0 Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 490 740 0.67 0.55 282 46,250 i Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an interest of approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include but are not limited to Centinela see Note h i above and Brujulinas and Conchi see Note h iii above.
The remaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
The Group has the exclusive right to acquire, at fair value under certain conditions, the shareholding of Mineralinvest in Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors, or the underlying properties, for a period of five years from August 2008.
The Group also has committed to meet in full any exploration costs relating to the properties held by these two entities.
Further details are set out in Note 37 d to the financial statements.
