104 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements continued f Borrowings preference shares 41A Basis of Preparation of the Balance Sheet and Related Notes of the Parent Company The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a fixed rate of return The Antofagasta plc Parent Company balance sheet and related notes have been prepared without the right to participate in any surplus.
They are accordingly classified as borrowings in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP and translated into US dollars at period end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are and in accordance with UK company law.
The financial information has been prepared on a included within finance costs.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
g Equity instruments ordinary share capital and share premium The functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency adopted is US dollars.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
There were no changes in Equity instruments of the Company comprise its sterling-denominated issued ordinary share accounting policies in 2009. capital and related share premium.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with UK GAAP requires the use of As explained above, the presentational and the functional currency of the Company estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during at historical rates of exchange based on dates of issue.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, following implementation of these standards, actual results may h Cash flow statement differ from those estimates.
The Companys individual financial statements are outside the scope of FRS 1 Cash Flow As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Statements because the Company prepares publicly available consolidated financial Parent Company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The profit after tax for statements which include a consolidated cash flow statement.
Accordingly, the Company the year of the Parent Company amounted to US$330.3 million 2008 US$922.5 million.
does not present an individual company cash flow statement.
i Related party disclosures 41B Principal Accounting Policies of the Parent Company The Companys individual financial statements are exempt from the requirements of FRS 8 a Currency translation Related Party Disclosures because its individual financial statements are presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the individual financial statements do The Companys functional currency is the US dollar.
Transactions denominated in other not include related party disclosures.
currencies, including the issue of shares, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities, including amounts due from or to subsidiaries, are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
41C Employee Benefit Expense Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in a Average number of employees which they arise.
The average number of employees was 8 2008 7. b Revenue recognition b Aggregate remuneration Interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Dividends proposed by subsidiaries are recognised as income by the Company when they represent a present obligation of the The aggregate remuneration of the employees mentioned above was as follows: subsidiaries, i. e. in the period in which they are formally approved for payment.
2009 2008 US$m US$m c Dividends payable Wages and salaries 1.6 1.8 Dividends proposed are recognised when they represent a present obligation, i. e. in the Social security costs 0.2 0.2 period in which they are formally approved for payment.
Accordingly, an interim dividend Post-employment benefits severance charge in the year 0.1 0.1 is recognised when paid and a final dividend is recognised when approved by shareholders.
1.9 2.1 d Investments in subsidiaries The above employee figures exclude Directors who receive Directors fees from Antofagasta plc.
Investments in subsidiaries represent equity holdings in subsidiaries and long-term amounts Details of fees payable to Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Such investments are valued at cost less any impairment provisions.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant income-generating unit or disposal value if higher.
As explained in Note 41D, amounts owed by subsidiaries due in foreign currencies are translated at year end rates of exchange with any exchange differences taken to the profit and loss account.
e Current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand Current asset investments comprise highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value, typically maturing within 12 months.
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand.
