63 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Cautionary statement This Business review has been prepared for It is believed that the expectations reflected and only for the members of the Company in these statements are reasonable but they as a body and no other persons.
Its purpose may be affected by a wide range of such is to assist shareholders to assess how the variables.
No assurances can be given that Directors have performed their duties, the the forward-looking statements in this Companys strategies and the potential Report will be realised.
The forward-looking for those strategies to succeed and for statements reflect the knowledge and no other purpose.
The Company, its information available at the date of Directors, employees, agents or advisers preparation and will not be updated during do not accept or assume responsibility for the year but will be considered in the any other purpose or to any other person Annual Report for next year.
Nothing in this to whom this document is shown or into document should be construed as a profit whose hands it may come and any such forecast.
This Business review has not been responsibility or liability is expressly audited or otherwise independently verified.
This Business review and certain other sections of the Annual Report contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
These and other factors could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described.
Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements.
