93 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments Accounting policies The Morgan Crucible Company plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group, and include the Groups interest in associates.
The parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
Historically the Group has drawn up its consolidated financial statements to 4 January.
These consolidated financial statements have been drawn up to Sunday 3 January 2010.
As from this year, the Group will maintain a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to the Accounting Reference Date of the Company, 1 January.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: these are presented on pages 139 to 147.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
During the period, the Group has applied IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 which has introduced a number of terminology changes and has resulted in a number of changes in presentation and disclosure.
The revised standard has had no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
In addition, the Group has adopted IFRS 2 Amendment Regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007, IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, none of which have had a significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
a Measurement convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments available-for-sale.
b Functional and presentation currency The Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
c Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the associate.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to pounds sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
94 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to pounds sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at an average rate for the period where this approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation since the adoption of IFRS are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of related hedges are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
e Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy f. The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Hedging i Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecasted transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The associated gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the period in which the transaction to which it relates occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in the hedging reserve is recognised immediately in the income statement.
ii Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge economically the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement.
iii Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in the translation reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
g Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, or at deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to 5 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRSs, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that revaluation.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of the asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property are recognised in Other one-off items in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of plant and equipment are recognised in Operating costs in the income statement.
ii Leased assets Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
95 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued iii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Buildings 50 years Plant and equipment - presses, kilns and furnaces 10-20 years Other plant and equipment 10 years Fixtures and fittings 10 years Motor vehicles and IT equipment 3 years h Intangible assets i Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 5 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
In respect of acquisitions prior to this date, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 5 January 2004 has not been reconsidered.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see accounting policy l. ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development, use and sale of products or processes.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. iv Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs 3 years Computer software 3-6 years Customer relationships 15-20 years Technology 15-20 years Order book Amortised over the period in which the associated orders are fulfilled i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value less impairment losses see accounting policy l. j Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
96 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and call deposits.
l Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than inventories see accounting policy j and deferred tax assets see accounting policy s, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated see i below.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro-rata basis.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate ie the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount and when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
m Share capital i Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
ii Preference share capital Preference share capital is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable and any dividends are discretionary, or is redeemable but only at the Companys option.
Dividends on Preference share capital classified as equity are recognised as distributions within equity.
iii Repurchase of share capital and own shares held by ESOP trust treasury shares When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net of any tax effects and is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares and the purchase of own shares by the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are presented as a deduction from total equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares until their subsequent cancellation.
97 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued n Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in full in equity in the year in which they arise.
iii Long-term service benefits The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, or similar approximation, and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
iv Share-based payment transactions The Group operates various share option programmes that allow Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan awards of shares are made to various key executives and under the Directors Share Option Plan 2006 2006 ESOP, the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 2004 ESOS and the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 1995 ESOS share options are granted by the Company.
The Company also maintains an all-employee sharesave scheme available to employees in the UK and Germany.
The grant date fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are met.
The fair value of the options and awards under each scheme have been measured using the following models: Directors Share Option Plan 2006 Monte Carlo model Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 Monte Carlo model The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan Monte Carlo model Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 Monte Carlo model Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 grants made since 2004 Binominal Lattice option pricing model Employee Sharesave Scheme 1995 grants made since 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 Black-Scholes Merton model Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 Germany Black-Scholes Merton model The choice of model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made and the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
98 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued o Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
i Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
ii Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
iii Environmental In accordance with the Groups environmental policy a provision is recognised for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years.
In a number of jurisdictions companies have a constructive obligation to remedy any known environmental problems.
p Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at their fair value.
q Revenue i Goods sold Revenue from the sale of products is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
ii Government grants Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income, as grants for capital expenditure, when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as revenue in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement as other operating income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset.
r Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease payments Leases where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases as if the asset had been purchased outright.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations in creditors.
Depreciation is charged on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the lease term if shorter.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement see accounting policy f, expected return on IAS 19 pension assets and interest on IAS 19 obligations.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
99 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued s Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
t Segment reporting The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments with effect from 4 January 2009.
The Group has identified four reportable operating segments.
These have been identified on the basis of internal management reporting information that is regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources and assess performance.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, loans and borrowings and related expenses, corporate assets primarily the Companys headquarters and head office expenses, and income tax assets and liabilities.
u Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity ie forming part of shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
v Investments in debt and equity securities Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity in the fair value reserve, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When these investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.
w Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
x Capitalisation of borrowing costs Borrowing costs interest and other costs are capitalised when they are incurred on raising specific funds to finance a major capital project which will be a significant productive asset, or to the extent that funds borrowed generally are used for the purposes of obtaining a qualifying asset.
100 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued y Dividends Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared and approved.
z Step acquisitions Step acquisitions arise when the Group acquires control of an entity through successive share purchases.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recorded at fair value on the date that control is acquired.
The amount recognised as goodwill or negative goodwill is determined separately for each tranche acquired, calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Any changes in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired between the acquisition date and the date that control is obtained are recorded in other reserves in equity to the extent that they have not previously been recognised in the income statement.
aa New Standards and Interpretations not yet adopted A number of new Standards and amendments to Standards and Interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 3 January 2010, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: The following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied: i IFRS 3 Revised 2008 Business Combinations ii IAS 27 Revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The revised standards introduce changes to acquisition accounting, notably in respect of treatment of acquisition costs, step and partial acquisitions, minority interests and contingent consideration.
The Group does not expect the above standards to have any significant impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 4 January 2010.
Amendments to the following adopted IFRSs were available for early application but have not been applied: i IAS 17 Leases ii IAS 18 Revenue iii IAS 27 Amended 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements iv IAS 36 Impairment of Assets v IAS 38 Intangible Assets vi IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations vii IFRS 8 Operating Segments viii IAS 39 Financial Instruments ix IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The Group does not expect the above amendments to have any significant impact on the financial statements for the period commencing 4 January 2010.
Accounting estimates and judgments Judgments made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
Management discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates.
The following accounting estimates are subject to significant uncertainty: Provisions Note 21 contains information about provisions.
Provisions for closure and restructuring costs, environmental issues and settlement of litigation are judgmental by their nature.
Amounts provided are the Groups best estimate of exposure based on currently available information.
101 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
Accounting policies, estimates and judgments continued Recognition of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill Note 3 contains information about intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
These primarily relate to existing contracts, order books and customer relationships, which are supported by long-term relationships with key customers.
The Group has estimated that the customer relationships have an economic life of 15-20 years.
Impairment of goodwill Note 11 contains information about the assumptions relating to goodwill impairment tests.
Credit risk Note 19 contains information about the Groups exposure to credit risk.
The Group establishes both specific and general allowances for impairment losses against receivables.
The general loss allowance is estimated based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Foreign currency exposure Note 19 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of the Group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Pension assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions applied to pensions are shown in note 20.
The actuarial evaluation of pension assets and liabilities is based on assumptions in respect of inflation, future salary increases, discount rates, returns on investments and mortality rates.
Relatively small changes in the assumptions underlying the actuarial valuations of pension schemes can have a significant impact on the net pension liability included in the balance sheet.
Taxation The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised is dependent on the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and on subjective judgments as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised based on managements assessment of the extent to which they are recoverable.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 32 to 63.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Business review.
In addition, note 19 includes the Groups policies and processes for managing financial risk: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group announced in May 2009 the signing of a new 280 million three-year multicurrency revolving facility agreement with a syndicate of eight banks.
This replaced a $420 million facility with the same financial covenants which was due to mature in March 2010.
The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through local banking arrangements that are supported through the flexibility provided by the new facility.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance and exchange rates, show the Group operating comfortably within the Groups debt financial covenants for the next 12 months.
The current economic climate continues to have an impact on the Group, its customers and suppliers.
The Board fully recognises the challenges that lie ahead but, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
102 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segment reporting This year the Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments which replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The accounting policy for identifying segments is now based on internal management reporting information that is regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
In contrast, IAS 14 Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments business and geographical based on the risks and rewards of the operating segments.
As a result of the adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Directors are of the opinion that the primary business segments, as previously reported under IAS 14 Segment Reporting, should remain unchanged.
Hence the Group continues to comprise the following four reportable segments: Carbon the Carbon Division produces a wide variety of technological solutions from carbon, graphite and silicon carbide.
Technical Ceramics the Technical Ceramics Division makes an extensive range of industrial ceramics products for a wide variety of applications.
Thermal Ceramics the Thermal Ceramics Division designs and manufactures a wide variety of heat insulation products.
Molten Metal Systems the Molten Metal Systems Division occupies a leading position in the supply of crucibles and manufactures equipment used in the melting, holding and processing of metals and alloys.
Insulating Ceramics Carbon Technical Ceramics Thermal Ceramics Molten Metal Systems Consolidated 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 391.4 239.9 206.0 212.2 315.1 347.4 30.1 35.5 942.6 835.0 1 Divisional EBITA 40.5 36.3 25.1 31.6 26.7 41.4 0.9 4.2 93.2 113.5 Unallocated costs 4.2 4.7 2 Group EBITA 89.0 108.8 Restructuring costs and other one-off items 12.0 10.6 3 Underlying operating profit 77.0 98.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 16.3 3.2 Operating profit 60.7 95.0 Finance income 24.4 34.3 Finance expense 53.7 47.0 Loss on disposal of business 0.7 Share of profit of associate net of income tax 1.2 Profit before taxation 31.4 82.8 1.
Divisional EBITA is defined as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Group EBITA is defined as operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
Underlying operating profit is defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
The above measures of profit are shown because the Directors use them to measure the underlying performance of the business, as referred to in the Business review section of the Annual Report.
The Group did not have any significant inter-segment revenue between reportable operating segments in 2009 and 2008.
103 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 2.
Major customer Revenues from one customer of the Groups Carbon Division represent 161.1 million of the Groups total revenues.
104 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Acquisitions Acquisitions in 2009 Clearpower In 2007 the Group acquired 49% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited, a company that, via two intermediary holding companies, owns 100% of NP Aerospace Limited.
On 5 January 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited for a total of 56.8 million, an amount contingent on the future performance of Clearpower Limited.
This comprised 12.2 million in cash for 11% of the Ordinary share capital and 44.6 million in discounted deferred contingent consideration for 40% of the Ordinary share capital.
The discounted deferred contingent consideration takes the form of four synthetic forwards each to acquire 10% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited at future dates from 2010 onwards, the amount of which are based on a fixed EBITDA multiple of Clearpower Limited.
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group has recognised a liability representing the estimated present value of the redemption amount in respect of its obligation to acquire these shares and has treated them as if they were acquired by the Group on 5 January 2009.
Since this consideration is contingent on the future performance of Clearpower the liability is remeasured at each reporting date with any adjustments recorded through goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
It is possible that the carrying amount of this liability will increase or decrease if the future performance of Clearpower varies from current expectations.
At 3 January 2010 this liability to purchase the remaining 40% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited was remeasured and increased to 46.0 million.
In addition amounts payable in respect of the acquisition of 11% of the Ordinary share capital were increased by 8.1 million based on the actual performance of Clearpower Limited in 2009.
The 8.1 million deferred contingent consideration in respect of the acquisition of 11% of the Ordinary share capital will be paid after the balance sheet date.
At 3 January 2010 the Group carries a total liability of 54.1 million in respect of deferred consideration.
This is included within current and non-current non-trade payables see note 22.
The unwinding of the discount on this liability of 2.2 million is recorded as a finance expense see note 6.
The adjustment through goodwill since the date of acquisition as a result of the remeasurement is 7.3 million.
The principal activity of NP Aerospace Limited is the development, manufacture and marketing of ballistic and non-ballistic products in the defence and civil sectors.
In the 12 months to 3 January 2010 Clearpower Limited and its subsidiaries contributed an operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets of 28.8 million to the consolidated net profit.
The details of the transaction, result and fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value carrying to the amount Group 2009 2009 m m Clearpower The figures in the table below represent a 100% interest in Clearpower Limited Intangible assets 51.5 Property, plant and equipment 2.9 2.9 Other working capital 0.1 0.1 Derivative financial liabilities 0.8 0.8 Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings 58.3 58.3 Non-controlling interest 1.2 1.2 Deferred taxation 0.3 14.1 Net liabilities acquired 57.0 19.9 Goodwill 96.7 Fair value of net liabilities acquired and goodwill arising 76.8 Components of cost of acquisition Fair value of consideration for initial 49% shareholding in 2007 0.5 Fair value of consideration for remaining 51% shareholding in 2009 64.1 Total cost of acquisition 64.6 Earnings under equity method of initial 49% shareholding while Clearpower Limited was an associate 1.4 Revaluation surplus arising on step acquisition 10.8 Fair value of net liabilities acquired and goodwill arising 76.8 Cash paid on acquisition of 11% of the Ordinary share capital 12.2 Acquisition costs 0.1 Net cash outflow to the Group in 2009 12.3 105 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 3.
Acquisitions continued Provisional fair value adjustments were made to reflect the fair value of the assets liabilities acquired and principally represent the recognition of the fair value of non-contractual customer relationships, order book and technology and the associated deferred tax on the temporary timing difference created by the fair value adjustments.
No adjustments to fair value were made.
Recognised goodwill comprises 22.5 million arising on the initial purchase of the 49% interest in 2007 and 74.2 million arising on the effective acquisition of the remaining 51% interest on 5 January 2009.
Excluding goodwill a total of 51.5 million of intangible assets has been recognised comprising 23.9 million of customer relationships, 18.3 million of technology and an order book of 9.3 million.
These have been recognised within operating intangibles arising on acquisition see note 11.
Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being identified individually or recognised as separate assets.
This includes acquirer-specific synergies such as cross-selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies and processes between existing and acquired sites.
The fair value of the purchase consideration, which is dependent on future results, represents managements best estimate of the likely final purchase consideration.
The revaluation surplus, recorded in the statement of other comprehensive income, reflects the increase in the fair value of the Groups original 49% interest in Clearpower Limited from the date of its original acquisition to 5 January 2009 excluding goodwill and to the extent not previously recognised as the Groups share of the results of Clearpower Limited.
Other acquisitions On 6 April 2009, the Group acquired a 50% stake in Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited.
The principal activity of Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited is acting as prime contractor for delivery of military vehicles and provision of related support services.
This company did not trade prior to the date of acquisition.
During the year the Company acquired a further 9% of the Ordinary share capital and voting rights of Carbo San Luis SA for 1.1 million, resulting in a total shareholding of 84.6% at 3 January 2010.
Acquisitions in 2008 On 31 March 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the shares in the Technical Ceramics business of Carpenter Technology Corporation, known as Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics, for 74.6 million.
The principal activity of Certech is the manufacture of complex injection-moulded ceramic components.
The principal activity of Carpenter Advanced Ceramics is the manufacture of engineered ceramic products.
In the nine months to 4 January 2009 these subsidiaries contributed an operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets of 6.6 million to the consolidated net profit for the period.
The Group revenue and profit from operations before amortisation of intangible assets for 2008, had the acquisition taken place at the beginning of the period, are 849.2 million and 100.4 million respectively.
Effect of acquisitions The acquisitions had the following effect on the assets and liabilities of the Group: Carrying Fair value values before to the acquisition Group 2008 2008 m m Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics Intangible assets 3.2 32.2 Property, plant and equipment 8.3 9.0 Other working capital 11.9 11.3 Provisions 1.7 Deferred taxation 11.3 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 23.4 39.5 Goodwill on acquisition 38.6 Consideration payable, excluding acquisition costs, satisfied in cash 74.6 Acquisition costs 3.5 Net cash outflow 78.1 Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being identified individually or recognised as separate assets.
This will include acquirer-specific synergies such as cross-selling opportunities and the enhancement of technologies and processes between existing and acquired sites.
106 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Acquisitions continued Excluding goodwill a total of 32.2 million of intangible assets have been recognised, which comprise customer relationships.
During the year the Company acquired a further 6% of the Ordinary share capital and voting rights of Carbo San Luis SA for 0.7 million, resulting in a shareholding of 75.6%.
Operating costs 2009 2008 m m Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 0.7 4.8 Raw materials and consumables 302.3 204.6 Other external charges 148.3 143.2 Total 449.9 352.6 Employee costs: Wages and salaries 214.3 209.7 Share-based payments 2.0 2.5 Social security costs 45.1 41.1 Other pension costs 7.1 8.9 Total 268.5 262.2 Depreciation: Owned assets 30.5 27.3 Assets held under finance leases 1.2 0.3 Total 31.7 27.6 Rentals under operating leases: Hire of plant and machinery 3.0 1.9 Other operating leases 8.7 5.0 Total 11.7 6.9 Other operating charges and income: Foreign exchange losses 3.9 2.2 Other operating charges 97.3 87.0 Foreign exchange gains 6.1 8.7 Other operating income 3.3 3.6 Total 91.8 76.9 Total operating costs before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets 853.6 726.2 Restructuring costs and other one-off items: Employment termination costs 11.3 1.0 Non-cash write-off of assets 1.5 4.2 Other site rationalisation and closure costs 2.1 5.3 Costs recovered incurred associated with settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation 0.9 0.9 Profit on disposal of property 2.0 0.8 Total 12.0 10.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 16.3 3.2 Total operating costs 881.9 740.0 The Group recognised 13.9 million in expense in respect of research and development 2008: 9.8 million.
107 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 4.
Operating costs continued A summary of the audit and non-audit fees in respect of services provided by KPMG Audit plc charged to operating profit in the year ended 3 January 2010 is set out below: 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation and other services 1.6 1.4 Tax services 0.1 0.1 2.1 1.9 In addition, in 2008 KPMG Audit plc was paid 0.1 million in respect of the acquisition of Certech and Carpenter Advanced Ceramics.
Staff numbers The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of employees 2009 2008 United Kingdom 1,484 1,394 Rest of Europe 1,738 1,868 The Americas 3,632 4,051 Far East and Australia 2,692 3,064 Middle East and Africa 242 244 9,788 10,621 Carbon 3,548 3,868 Technical Ceramics 2,698 2,843 Thermal Ceramics 3,032 3,354 Molten Metal Systems 502 548 Corporate 8 8 9,788 10,621 108 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Net finance income and expense 2009 2008 m m Recognised in profit or loss Interest income on bank deposits 2.3 3.0 Interest income from associate 4.1 Expected return on IAS 19 scheme assets 22.1 25.7 Foreign exchange gains recognised on net investment hedge 1.5 Finance income 24.4 34.3 Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 25.1 21.4 Interest on IAS 19 obligations 26.4 25.6 Interest expense on unwinding of discount on deferred consideration 2.2 Finance expense 53.7 47.0 Net financing costs recognised in profit or loss 29.3 12.7 The above finance income and expense include the following in respect of assets liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss: Total interest income on financial assets 2.3 7.1 Total interest expense on financial liabilities 25.1 21.4 Recognised directly in equity Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 1.0 3.8 Cash flow hedges: Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.2 4.6 Transferred to profit or loss 4.6 1.2 Effective portion of change in fair value of net investment hedge 9.1 42.8 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations 8.9 61.6 6.0 11.6 Recognised in: Fair value reserve 1.0 3.8 Translation reserve 0.2 18.8 Hedging reserve 4.8 3.4 6.0 11.6 109 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 7.
Taxation - income tax expense Recognised in the income statement 2009 2008 m m Current tax expense Current year 17.3 15.7 Adjustments for prior years 0.8 1.7 16.5 14.0 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.8 4.8 Benefit of losses recognised 1.3 7.8 6.1 Total income tax expense in income statement 8.7 20.1 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2009 2009 2008 2008 m % m % Profit before tax 31.4 82.8 Income tax using the domestic corporation tax rate 8.8 28.0 23.2 28.0 Non-deductible expenses 6.4 20.4 0.8 1.0 Temporary differences not equalised in deferred tax 4.3 13.7 10.6 12.8 Over under-provided in prior years 0.2 0.6 2.3 2.8 Other including the impact of overseas tax rates 2.0 6.4 4.4 5.3 8.7 27.7 20.1 24.3 Income tax recognised directly in equity Actuarial gains and losses 5.4 Tax effect on components of other comprehensive income 5.5 Other 0.2 Total income tax recognised directly in equity 5.3 5.4 8.
Restructuring costs and costs associated with settlement of prior period anti-trust litigation Costs of restructuring were 14.9 million 2008: 10.5 million.
During the period net legal costs of 0.9 million were recovered relating to the settlement of anti-trust litigation 2008: 0.9 million net legal costs charge.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share at 3 January 2010 was based on the profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc of 19.0 million 4 January 2009: 59.2 million and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 3 January 2010 of 268,070,252 4 January 2009: 266,882,370 calculated as follows: 2009 2008 m m Profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19.0 59.2 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares Issued Ordinary shares at the beginning of the period 270,206,256 276,414,074 Effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company 2,136,004 9,531,704 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 268,070,252 266,882,370 Basic earnings per share pence 7.1p 22.2p 110 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Earnings per share continued Diluted earnings per share The calculation of diluted earnings per share at 3 January 2010 was based on the profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc of 19.0 million 4 January 2009: 59.2 million and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 3 January 2010 of 279,724,482 4 January 2009: 274,229,467, calculated as follows: 2009 2008 m m Profit attributable to equity holders of The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19.0 59.2 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares: Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 268,070,252 266,882,370 Effect of share options incentive schemes 11,654,230 7,347,097 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares 279,724,482 274,229,467 Diluted earnings per share pence 6.8p 21.6p Underlying earnings per share The calculation of underlying earnings per share at 3 January 2010 was based on operating profit and share of profit of associate before amortisation, less net financing costs, loss on disposal of business, income tax expense and non-controlling interests of 35.3 million 4 January 2009: 62.4 million and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 3 January 2010 of 268,070,252 4 January 2009: 266,882,370 calculated as follows: 2009 2008 m m Operating profit and share of profit of associate before amortisation, less net financing costs, loss on disposal of business, income tax expense and non-controlling interests 35.3 62.4 Issued Ordinary shares at the beginning of the period 270,206,256 276,414,074 Effect of shares issued in period and treasury shares held by the Company 2,136,004 9,531,704 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 268,070,252 266,882,370 Earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets pence 13.2p 23.4p Diluted underlying earnings per share The calculation of diluted underlying earnings per share at 3 January 2010 was based on operating profit and share of profit of associate before amortisation, less net financing costs, loss on disposal of business, income tax expense and non-controlling interests of 35.3 million 4 January 2009: 62.4 million and a weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the period ended 3 January 2010 of 279,724,482 4 January 2009: 274,229,467, calculated as follows: 2009 2008 m m Operating profit and share of profit of associate before amortisation, less net financing costs, loss on disposal of business, income tax expense and non-controlling interests 35.3 62.4 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 268,070,252 266,882,370 Effect of share options incentive schemes 11,654,230 7,347,097 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary shares during the period 279,724,482 274,229,467 Diluted earnings per share before amortisation of intangible assets pence 12.6p 22.8p 111 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 10.
Property, plant and equipment Plant and Land and equipment buildings and fixtures Total m m m Cost Balance at 5 January 2008 135.9 407.5 543.4 Acquisitions through business combinations 2.0 9.0 11.0 Additions 6.5 30.9 37.4 Disposals 1.5 18.2 19.7 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 38.5 100.1 138.6 Balance at 4 January 2009 181.4 529.3 710.7 Balance at 5 January 2009 181.4 529.3 710.7 Acquisitions through business combinations 1.5 1.4 2.9 Additions 1.4 12.6 14.0 Disposals 4.3 11.0 15.3 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 4.1 0.6 4.7 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 13.2 36.1 49.3 Balance at 3 January 2010 162.7 495.6 658.3 Depreciation and impairment losses Balance at 5 January 2008 38.4 258.4 296.8 Depreciation charge for the year 3.9 23.7 27.6 Impairment loss 1.6 2.2 3.8 Disposals 0.7 15.0 15.7 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 13.2 65.4 78.6 Balance at 4 January 2009 56.4 334.7 391.1 Balance at 5 January 2009 56.4 334.7 391.1 Depreciation charge for the year 4.5 27.2 31.7 Impairment loss 0.3 0.3 Disposals 1.0 9.0 10.0 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 2.8 0.5 3.3 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 4.4 23.3 27.7 Balance at 3 January 2010 53.0 329.1 382.1 Carrying amounts At 5 January 2008 97.5 149.1 246.6 At 4 January 2009 125.0 194.6 319.6 At 3 January 2010 109.7 166.5 276.2 Assets pledged as security for liabilities At 3 January 2010 assets with a carrying amount of 4.3 million 2008: 4.2 million are subject to registered debentures to secure bank loans and other liabilities see note 18.
Assets classified as held for sale 2009 2008 m m Land and buildings 1.3 Plant and equipment 0.1 1.4 112 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Intangible assets Operating intangibles Capitalised arising on development Computer Goodwill acquisition costs software Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 5 January 2008 57.1 10.8 9.5 77.4 Acquisitions through business combinations 38.6 32.2 70.8 Additions - externally purchased 1.6 0.9 2.5 Disposals 1.2 0.1 1.3 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 23.9 14.9 2.1 40.9 Balance at 4 January 2009 118.4 57.9 1.6 12.4 190.3 Balance at 5 January 2009 118.4 57.9 1.6 12.4 190.3 Acquisitions through business combinations 96.8 51.5 148.3 Additions - externally purchased 0.7 0.9 1.6 Disposals 0.2 0.7 0.9 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 8.2 5.6 0.1 0.9 14.8 Balance at 3 January 2010 206.8 103.8 2.2 11.7 324.5 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance at 5 January 2008 1.3 6.3 7.6 Amortisation charge for the year 2.2 0.1 0.9 3.2 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Effect of movement in foreign exchange 1.0 1.6 2.6 Balance at 4 January 2009 4.5 0.1 8.7 13.3 Balance at 5 January 2009 4.5 0.1 8.7 13.3 Amortisation charge for the year 14.8 0.3 1.2 16.3 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.4 0.9 1.3 Balance at 3 January 2010 18.9 0.4 8.3 27.6 Carrying amounts At 5 January 2008 57.1 9.5 3.2 69.8 At 4 January 2009 118.4 53.4 1.5 3.7 177.0 At 3 January 2010 206.8 84.9 1.8 3.4 296.9 Operating intangibles arising on acquisition include an order book, customer relationships and technology.
On 5 January 2009 the Group recognised a 9.3 million order book on acquisition of Clearpower Limited.
This has been amortised over a period of 12 months, being the period over which the associated orders are fulfilled.
For further details of acquired operating intangible assets see note 3.
No order book was recognised in 2008.
113 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 11.
Intangible assets continued Impairment test for cash-generating units containing goodwill In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination that gave rise to the goodwill.
The most significant elements of the Groups total consolidated goodwill of 206.8 million at 3 January 2010 are allocated to the Carbon cash-generating unit.
Goodwill is attributed to each cash-generating unit as follows: 2009 2008 m m Carbon 117.0 21.5 Technical Ceramics 67.2 72.1 Thermal Ceramics 20.5 22.5 Molten Metal Systems 2.1 2.3 206.8 118.4 Each cash-generating unit is assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment.
As part of the annual impairment test review the carrying value of goodwill has been assessed with reference to its value in use reflecting the projected cash flows of each cash-generating unit.
The key assumptions on which the cash flow projections are based relate to growth rates and discount rates.
The cash flow projections in year one are based on budgeted operating results for the forthcoming year.
The budget for 2010 was approved in December 2009.
Growth rates for the period not covered by budgets are specific to each operating Division, ranging from 4.4% to 6.9% 2008: 4.4% to 6.9%.
These growth rates reflect the products, industries and countries in which the Divisions operate.
These mediumto long-term growth rates have been reviewed by management during 2009 and are considered to remain appropriate.
Given the similar risk profiles of each of the operating Divisions, together with common funding from the central Group Treasury function, a standard pre-tax discount rate of 12.9% 2008: 13%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, has been used in discounting the projected cash flows and calculating the terminal value at the end of year five.
This discount rate has been used as the Group believes it suitably approximates the rate used by end-market participants.
The Directors have considered the following individual sensitivities and are confident that no impairment would arise in any of the following three circumstances: if the pre-tax discount rate was increased by 300bps to 15.9%: if no growth was assumed for years two to five: and if the cash flow projections of all businesses were reduced by 25%.
114 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Other investments 2009 2008 m m Non-current investments Investment in associate 1.5 6.4 Equity securities available-for-sale 5.7 5.2 7.2 11.6 Investment in associates Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited During the year the Group acquired a 50% stake in Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited.
Total consideration paid including fees was 1.5 million.
The Groups share of profit after tax in Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited was nil.
Summary 2009 financial information for the Groups investment in Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited, not adjusted for the 50% ownership held by the Group: 2009 m Current assets 15.3 Non-current assets 0.1 Total assets 15.4 Current liabilities 12.4 Non-current liabilities Total liabilities 12.4 Revenues 44.0 Profit Clearpower Limited As described in note 3, during 2009 the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited.
As a result its results are fully consolidated in the results for the year ended 3 January 2010.
In 2008 the Group had accounted for its investment in Clearpower Limited as an associate.
In 2008, the Groups share of profit after tax in its associate for the year was 1.2 million.
Equity securities available-for-sale The equity securities available-for-sale represent an investment in a mutual fund.
A 10% increase in the unit price would increase the fair value of the investments by 0.4 million.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities Net Net 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 23.3 23.5 23.3 23.5 Intangible assets 0.7 24.2 16.8 24.2 16.1 Employee benefits 19.8 24.1 19.8 24.1 Provisions 5.4 6.6 5.4 6.6 Tax value of loss carried forward recognised 7.5 3.2 7.5 3.2 Other items 4.5 2.0 0.5 4.5 1.5 37.2 36.6 47.5 40.8 10.3 4.2 115 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 13.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2009 2008 m m Deductible temporary differences 38.9 40.0 Tax losses 43.9 33.6 82.8 73.6 Movements in temporary differences during the year Balance Acquired Recognised Balance Acquired Recognised Balance 4 January Recognised in business directly 4 January Recognised in business directly 3 January 2008 in income combinations in equity 2009 in income combinations in equity 2010 m m m m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 18.4 5.1 23.5 0.2 23.3 Intangible assets 0.5 5.9 9.7 16.1 6.0 14.1 24.2 Employee benefits 12.6 6.1 5.4 24.1 4.3 19.8 Provisions 6.0 0.6 6.6 1.2 5.4 Tax value of loss carried forward recognised 6.3 3.1 3.2 4.3 7.5 Others 0.6 0.9 1.5 2.8 0.2 4.5 6.6 6.5 9.7 5.4 4.2 7.8 14.1 0.2 10.3 No deferred income tax is provided on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings as the Group is able to control the remittance of such earnings and currently has no intention of making any such remittance, where such remittance would incur additional tax liabilities.
Inventories 2009 2008 m m Raw materials and consumables 56.9 43.9 Work in progress 32.4 36.0 Finished goods 57.0 64.0 146.3 143.9 Inventories stated at fair value less costs to sell 2.5 1.9 Carrying amount of inventories subject to retention of title clauses 2.0 2.3 The Group holds consignment inventory amounting to 24.5 million 2008: 13.0 million which is not reflected in the balance sheet.
The majority of this balance is for precious metals which are held on consignment by a subsidiary and for which it is invoiced only when the material is required.
During the year provisions of 4.4 million were made against inventories and recognised in operating expenses 2008: 4.6 million.
The Group did not reverse any provisions against inventory during 2009 and 2008.
116 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Non-current Loan to associate 36.0 Non-trade receivables and prepayments 2.1 3.0 2.1 39.0 Current Trade receivables due from associate 7.3 0.3 Other trade receivables 137.2 164.2 Loans and receivables 144.5 164.5 Non-trade receivables due from associate 5.7 Other non-trade receivables and prepayments 21.3 26.1 165.8 196.3 The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 19.
Cash and cash equivalents bank overdrafts 2009 2008 m m Bank balances 92.9 100.4 Cash deposits 14.7 54.1 Cash and cash equivalents per consolidated balance sheet 107.6 154.5 Bank balances subject to cash pooling arrangements 15.1 Cash and cash equivalents per consolidated statement of cash flows 107.6 139.4 Bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements 15.1 Other bank overdrafts 1.2 2.2 Total bank overdrafts 1.2 17.3 For 2008, in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, bank overdrafts subject to cash pooling arrangements were not offset against cash and cash equivalents as the Group did not intend to settle on a net basis.
During 2009, this position was reviewed and the Group would now intend to settle the pooled balances on a net basis.
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net debt 2009 2008 m m Opening net borrowings 429.8 209.8 Net new borrowings 35.5 127.2 Payment of finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.3 Effect of movements in foreign exchange on borrowings 33.4 93.1 Closing borrowings 360.3 429.8 Cash and cash equivalents per consolidated statement of cash flows 107.6 139.4 Closing net debt 252.7 290.4 Net debt is defined as interest-bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts less cash and cash equivalents.
117 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 17.
Capital and reserves Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary and forward contracts used for net investment hedging.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment is derecognised.
Special reserve A Special Resolution to cancel the Share Premium Account was passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 11 June 1993.
This cancellation was confirmed by an Order of the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, on 14 July 1993.
The amount of 88.9 million standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 14 July 1993 was transferred to the special reserve against which goodwill on consolidation can be written off.
This reserve, together with the amounts standing to the credit of the Share Premium Account on 12 October 1990 of 71.5 million, on 19 June 1987 of 38.9 million and on 27 July 1989 of 12.3 million which were transferred following previous Orders of the High Court, becomes distributable to the extent of subsequent increases in issued share capital and share premium account.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose when the Company redeemed Preference shares wholly out of distributable profits.
The movement in 2008 relates to the cancellation of Ordinary shares as a result of the share buy-back programme.
Other reserves The other reserves includes the 10.8 million increase in the fair value of the Groups original 49% interest in Clearpower Limited from the date of its original acquisition to 5 January 2009 excluding goodwill and to the extent not previously recognised as the Groups share of the results of Clearpower Limited.
See note 3 for further details.
Retained earnings The Company has acquired own shares under a share buy-back programme.
The Company has also acquired own shares to satisfy the requirements of the various share option incentive schemes.
The number of treasury shares held by the Company at the year end was 1,984,022 2008: 2,593,799 : 1,984,022 shares were held by The Morgan General Employee Benefit Trust 2008: 2,593,799 and nil shares were held by the Company 2008: nil.
All rights conferred by those shares are suspended until they are reissued.
Dividends The following Ordinary dividends were declared and paid by the Company: Per share Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 Pence Pence m m 2007 final 4.50 12.1 2008 interim 2.50 6.7 2008 final 4.50 12.1 Total 4.50 7.00 12.1 18.8 The Company also declared the following Ordinary dividend: Per share Total 2009 2009 Pence m 2009 interim 2.50 6.8 2.50 6.8 118 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Capital and reserves continued This Ordinary dividend had not been paid by the Company as at 3 January 2010 and has not been provided for at the year end.
In addition to the above, the Company also declared and paid dividends on the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares and 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares.
After 3 January 2010 the following dividends were proposed by the Directors for 2009.
These dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
m 4.5 pence per qualifying Ordinary share 12.2 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares see note 30 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares see note 30 12.2 Authorised Issued 2009 2008 2009 2008 Called up share capital m m m m Equity share capital 434,650,876 2008: 434,650,876 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 108.7 108.7 Fully paid: 270,206,256 2008: 270,206,256 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 67.5 67.5 108.7 108.7 67.5 67.5 Preference share capital 125,327 authorised and issued 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each, fully paid 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 311,954 authorised and issued 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each, fully paid 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Total Preference share capital 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total share capital 109.1 109.1 67.9 67.9 Ordinary shares Preference shares Number of shares in issue 2009 2008 2009 2008 In issue at beginning of period 270,206,256 276,414,074 437,281 437,281 Exercise of options under the various Morgan Crucible share option schemes 42,182 Cancelled as a result of share buy-back programme 6,250,000 In issue at end of period 270,206,256 270,206,256 437,281 437,281 As at the date of this report 270,206,256 Ordinary shares have been issued 2008: 270,206,256.
The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
119 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 17.
Capital and reserves continued The following options were outstanding in respect of Ordinary shares: Normal exercise dates ranging Number of shares Exercise price s from to 340,734 The Morgan Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 180.08p-208.12p 19 June 2003 22 November 2011 2,664,743 The Morgan Crucible Sharesave Scheme 2004 128.00p-249.00p 1 March 2010 31 May 2013 248,274 The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share 1.64 1 December 2011 31 May 2012 Options Scheme for Employees in Germany 1,625,391 The Morgan Crucible Executive Share Option 129.05p-256.00p 22 June 2007 20 December 2016 Scheme 2004 6,148,623 The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 0.00p-197.62p 10 March 2011 6 March 2012 9,091,427 The Morgan Crucible Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 0.00p 13 June 2010 2 July 2012 The 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each confer on the holders thereof the right to receive a cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.5% and 5.0% respectively, calculated up to 30 June and 31 December respectively in every year.
The First and Second Cumulative Preference shares shall not entitle the holders thereof to attend or vote at any general meeting unless either: i the meeting is convened to consider any resolutions for reducing the capital, or authorising any issue of debentures or debenture stock, or increasing the borrowing powers of the Board under the Articles of Association of the Company, or winding up, or sanctioning a sale of the undertaking, or altering the Articles in any manner affecting their respective interests, or any other resolutions directly altering their respective rights and privileges: or ii at the date of the notice convening the general meeting the Preference dividend is upwards of one month in arrears from the payment date of any half-yearly instalment.
On a return of capital on a winding-up the assets of the Company available for distribution shall be applied: First, in payment to the holders of the First Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.5%pa.
Second, in payment to the holders of the Second Preference shares of the amounts paid up on such shares, together with interest at the rate of 5.0%pa.
Third, in repaying the capital paid up or credited as paid up on the Ordinary shares.
Fourth, any surplus shall be distributed rateably amongst the holders of the Ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal amount paid up on their respective holdings of shares in the Company.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings which are measured at amortised cost.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19.
2009 2008 m m Non-current liabilities US Dollar Senior Notes 233.7 273.2 Multicurrency revolving facility 105.4 136.1 Bank and other loans 6.6 0.1 Obligations under finance leases 0.9 1.5 346.6 410.9 Current liabilities US Dollar Senior Notes 10.9 12.0 Bank and other loans 0.9 3.9 Obligations under finance leases 0.7 0.8 12.5 16.7 120 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: Carrying amount Nominal Year of 2009 2008 Currency interest rate maturity m m 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 US$ 6.84% 2013 23.1 31.6 6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 US$ 6.23% 2010 5.1 11.4 5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 US$ 5.70% 2014 61.8 69.2 6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 US$ 6.12% 2017 108.2 121.1 6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 US$ 6.26% 2019 46.4 51.9 Multicurrency revolving facility EUR 3.46% 2012 38.6 96.1 Multicurrency revolving facility GBP 3.81% 2012 66.8 40.0 Bank and other loans Various 4.00%-8.00% up to 2013 7.5 4.0 Obligations under finance leases Various 6.00% up to 2014 1.6 2.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 359.1 427.6 Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum lease lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Less than one year 0.8 0.1 0.7 0.9 0.1 0.8 Between one and five years 0.9 0.9 1.4 0.1 1.3 More than five years 0.2 0.2 1.7 0.1 1.6 2.5 0.2 2.3 Bank and other loans include 0.2 million 2008: 0.9 million of loans secured on the assets of the Group.
As at 3 January 2010 the Group had available headroom under the bank syndication of 171.4 million 2008: 154.5 million.
Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board delegates the establishment and implementation of the systems for internal control and risk management to the operating Divisions which are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their area of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
The Board delegates the monitoring and review of the internal control and risk management systems to the Audit Committee assisted by the Risk Management Committee.
The Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee will initiate action to improve the systems and ensure compliance.
121 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Group has set up notional cash pooling agreements with a number of banks.
Under the notional cash pooling agreement the Group has the legal right to offset liabilities on undrawn bank accounts against surplus balances.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group serves thousands of customers.
Many of these have purchased the same product for several years and in some cases decades.
Others have modified and enhanced designs or adopted the same components into new products, extending the lifecycle of the components that the Group supplies.
The Groups level of customer retention is very high, particularly with its major accounts, and, although the top 20 ranking will alter from year to year, many of the names remain consistent over time.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments.
The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a general loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The general loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Investments The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a sound credit rating.
Given these high credit ratings, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Carrying amount 2009 2008 m m Available-for-sale financial assets 5.7 5.2 Loan to associate 36.0 Loans and receivables 144.5 164.5 Cash and cash equivalents 107.6 154.5 257.8 360.2 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by Division was: Carrying amount 2009 2008 m m Carbon 53.1 44.0 Technical Ceramics 25.9 33.5 Thermal Ceramics 60.5 81.3 Molten Metal Systems 5.0 5.7 144.5 164.5 122 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2009 2008 m m Europe 67.5 68.3 Americas 44.3 60.5 Far East and Australasia 28.7 34.3 Middle East and Africa 4.0 1.4 144.5 164.5 Impairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2009 2008 m m Not past due 111.6 127.2 Past due 0-30 days 21.4 28.7 Past due 31-60 days 5.6 7.0 Past due 61-90 days 8.3 3.0 Past due more than 90 days 7.8 9.1 154.7 175.0 Impairment allowance 10.2 10.5 144.5 164.5 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Balance at beginning of period 10.5 4.4 Decrease increase in allowance for impairment 0.3 6.1 Balance at end of period 10.2 10.5 Based on past experience, the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
A specific impairment allowance may be created in respect of an individual trade receivable for which full recovery is doubtful.
As at 3 January 2010 and 4 January 2009 there were no specific impairment allowances that were significant to the Group.
In addition, local management may create a general impairment allowance to reflect their experience of the historical recoverability of trade receivables past due in the respective markets in which their businesses operate.
The allowances in the accounts in respect of trade receivables are used to record impairment losses unless the Group is satisfied that no recovery of the amount owing is possible: at the point the amount is considered irrecoverable it is written off against the financial asset directly.
123 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by cash.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
The Group seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, cost-effective borrowing structure.
The policy is to ensure that the Group has sufficient liquidity available to meet all foreseeable needs.
The following are the undiscounted contracted maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments: Less 2009 Effective Carrying Contractual than 1 1-2 2-5 More than interest amount cash flows year years years 5 years rate m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% 23.1 25.7 7.0 6.6 12.1 6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% 5.1 5.1 5.1 5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 5.70% 61.8 79.5 3.5 3.5 72.5 6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 108.2 161.4 6.6 6.6 19.9 128.3 6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 6.26% 46.4 75.5 2.9 2.9 8.7 61.0 Multicurrency revolving facility 3.69% 105.4 110.7 2.1 108.6 Bank and other loans 4.00%-8.00% 7.5 7.5 3.0 4.5 Bank overdrafts 3.50% 1.2 1.2 1.2 Obligations under finance leases 6.00% 1.6 1.7 0.9 0.3 0.5 Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges 0.1 0.1 0.1 Forward exchange contracts as fair value hedges 0.4 0.4 0.4 Forward exchange contracts as net investment hedges 8.8 8.8 4.7 4.1 Interest rate swaps not designated 0.5 0.5 0.5 370.1 478.1 38.0 24.0 226.8 189.3 Less 2008 Effective Carrying Contractual than 1 1-2 2-5 More than interest amount cash flows year years years 5 years rate m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 6.84% 31.6 37.0 8.3 7.8 20.9 6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 6.23% 11.4 12.1 6.2 5.9 5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 5.70% 69.2 92.7 3.9 3.9 11.8 73.1 6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 6.12% 121.1 187.7 7.4 7.4 22.2 150.7 6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 6.26% 51.9 87.5 3.2 3.2 9.7 71.4 Multicurrency revolving facility 4.94% 136.1 136.2 0.1 136.1 Bank and other loans 4.00%-8.00% 4.0 4.3 4.3 Bank overdrafts 6.75% 17.3 18.4 18.4 Obligations under finance leases 6.0% 2.3 2.5 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.2 Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges 4.9 4.9 4.1 0.8 Forward exchange contracts as net investment hedges 11.1 11.1 11.1 460.9 594.4 67.9 165.8 65.3 295.4 124 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued Loans drawn under the 280 million multicurrency revolving facility are repayable within 12 months, but have been classified as non-current as the relevant committed facilities are available until 1 May 2012.
The following table indicates the periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur.
This is matched with the periods in which cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to impact profit or loss.
2009 Less More Carrying Contractual than 1 1-2 2-5 than 5 amount cash flows year years years years m m m m m m Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts Assets 0.2 2.8 2.8 Forward exchange contracts Liabilities 0.1 2.5 2.5 0.1 0.3 0.3 2008 Less More Carrying Contractual than 1 1-2 2-5 than 5 amount cash flows year years years years m m m m m m Cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges: Forward exchange contracts Assets 0.2 25.7 21.7 4.0 Forward exchange contracts Liabilities 4.9 30.2 25.4 4.8 4.7 4.5 3.7 0.8 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group buys and sells derivatives in the ordinary course of business, and also incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Risk Management Committee.
Generally the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in profit or loss.
Interest rate risk Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: Carrying amount 2009 2008 m m Fixed rate instruments Financial liabilities 250.8 287.5 Variable rate instruments Financial assets 107.6 154.4 Financial liabilities 109.5 157.3 1.9 2.9 The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that between 30% and 70% of its exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis.
125 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 basis points in interest rates on the outstanding bank syndication debt at the reporting date would have increased decreased profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008.
Profit or loss 100 bps 100 bps increase decrease m m 3 January 2010 Variable rate instruments 1.1 0.5 Cash flow sensitivity net 1.1 0.5 4 January 2009 Variable rate instruments 1.4 1.4 Cash flow sensitivity net 1.4 1.4 Foreign currency risk The table below shows the Groups currency exposures, being exposures on currency transactions that give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating company involved, other than certain non-sterling borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas entities.
2009 2008 GBP US$ Euro GBP US$ Euro Functional currency of Group operations m m m m m m Trade receivables 4.1 0.2 3.2 0.9 11.9 7.3 Cash and cash equivalents 8.9 0.2 1.9 0.6 21.4 12.0 Trade payables 1.9 1.0 1.7 5.3 7.5 3.3 Net balance sheet exposure 11.1 0.6 3.4 3.8 25.8 16.0 The amounts shown in the table take into account the effect of the forward contracts entered into to manage these currency exposures.
Average rate Year-end rate 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$ 1.5687 1.8552 1.6149 1.4450 Euro 1.1249 1.2582 1.1255 1.0408 The Group aims to hedge all material trade receivables and trade payables denominated in a foreign currency.
At any point in time the Group also hedges up to 75% of its estimated foreign currency exposure in respect of forecasted sales and purchases over the following 12 months.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk.
Most of the forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than the currency of the reporting unit, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level, by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates where necessary to address short-term imbalances.
Forecasted transactions The Group classifies its forward exchange contracts hedging forecasted transactions as cash flow hedges and states them at fair value.
The net fair value of forward exchange contracts used as hedges of forecasted transactions at 3 January 2010 was a loss of 0.4 million 2008: loss 4.6 million, comprising assets of 0.1 million 2008: 0.2 million and liabilities of 0.5 million 2008: 4.8 million that were recognised in fair value derivatives.
Cash flow hedges The contractual cash flows associated with the forward exchange contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges are shown in the section on liquidity risk.
The impact on profit or loss is expected to occur at the same time as the associated cash flows.
126 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued Hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries The Group manages the translation exposure of overseas net assets by seeking to match the currency of borrowings with the currency in which the net assets are denominated.
The objectives are to maintain a low cost of borrowing, whilst maintaining a balanced portfolio of net assets by currency.
The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
The Group also designates the Euro drawdowns under the US$280 million multicurrency revolving credit facility as a hedge of the Groups investment in subsidiaries in Europe.
Euro drawdowns during the year amounted to w43.5 million 2008: 100.0 million.
Sensitivity analysis The Groups sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities as at 3 January 2010 is set out in the table below.
The impact of a weakening in sterling on the Groups financial assets and liabilities would be more than offset in equity and income by its impact on the Groups overseas net assets and earnings respectively.
Sensitivity on Group assets other than financial assets and liabilities is not included in this analysis.
The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are forward-looking estimates of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from those projected results due to developments in the global financial markets which may cause fluctuations in interest and exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the table below, which therefore should not be considered a projection of likely future events and losses.
The estimated changes for foreign exchange rates are based on an instantaneous 10% weakening or strengthening in sterling against all other currencies from the levels applicable at 3 January 2010, with all other variables remaining constant.
Such analysis is for illustrative purposes only - in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
10% weakening in sterling Profit Equity before tax 3 January 2010 m m US$ 20.5 1.6 Euro 5.5 0.2 Other 1.2 10% weakening in sterling Profit Equity before tax 4 January 2009 m m US$ 26.4 1.8 Euro 8.0 1.3 Other 6.9 The impact of a one cent movement in the US$ exchange rate on results that are reported in US$ including those currencies that track the US$ would be circa 1.9 million of revenue and 0.2 million of underlying operating profit.
Other market price risk Equity price risk arises from available-for-sale equity securities held for meeting partially the unfunded portion of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations.
The primary goal of the Groups investment strategy is to maximise returns in order to meet partially the Groups unfunded defined benefit obligations.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base total equity so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board uses a number of measures, identified as key performance indicators KPI, to ensure the continued success of the Group.
The main KPI for the Group is the underlying profit margin.
The aim is to achieve mid-teen margins in good times and double-digit margins when the environment is more challenging.
Another measure, the economic value-added ratio EVA, compares the returns made by our Divisions with the notional cost of investing in them.
The Group uses this ratio to ascertain where to make capital investments within the Group.
The basic calculation deducts the cost of capital from the net operating profit after allowing for a notional medium-term tax charge.
The Board encourages employees of the Group to hold the Companys Ordinary shares.
The Group operates a number of employee share and share option schemes.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Groups various share option incentive schemes.
The Company may also acquire its own shares under a share buy-back programme.
127 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 19.
Financial risk management continued The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position, and the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings.
The Groups debt to adjusted capital ratio at the end of the reporting period was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 359.1 427.6 Less: cash and cash equivalents and overdrafts 106.4 137.2 Net debt 252.7 290.4 Total equity 214.6 208.0 Less: amounts accumulated in equity relating to cash flow hedges 0.2 4.6 Adjusted capital 214.4 212.6 Debt to adjusted capital ratio 1.2 1.4 There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows: Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost 6.84% US Dollar Senior Notes 2013 23.1 23.8 31.6 34.3 6.23% US Dollar Senior Notes 2010 5.1 5.1 11.4 11.7 5.70% US Dollar Senior Notes 2014 61.8 63.3 69.2 79.5 6.12% US Dollar Senior Notes 2017 108.2 110.0 121.1 147.6 6.26% US Dollar Senior Notes 2019 46.4 46.2 51.9 65.0 Bank syndication 105.4 105.4 136.1 136.1 Bank and other loans 7.5 7.5 4.0 4.0 Bank overdrafts 1.2 1.2 17.3 17.3 Obligations under finance leases 1.6 1.6 2.3 2.3 Trade and other payables 151.2 151.2 94.3 94.3 Loan to associate 36.0 36.0 Loans and receivables 144.5 144.5 164.5 164.5 Cash and cash equivalents 107.6 107.7 154.5 154.5 259.4 263.1 184.2 237.1 Available-for-sale financial instruments Available-for-sale financial assets 5.7 5.7 5.2 5.2 Derivatives and other items at fair value Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Assets 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 Liabilities 9.8 9.8 16.0 16.0 9.3 9.3 15.8 15.8 263.0 266.7 194.8 247.7 Unrecognised profit loss 3.7 52.9 128 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued Estimation of fair values The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the preceding table.
Equity securities Fair value is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are marked to market either using listed market prices or by discounting the contractual forward price and deducting the current spot rate.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Finance lease liabilities The fair value is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at market interest rates for homogeneous lease agreements.
The estimated fair values reflect changes in interest rates.
Trade and other receivables payables For receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value.
All other receivables payables are discounted to determine the fair value.
Interest rates used for determining fair value The interest rates used to determine the fair value of loans and borrowings and finance leases are as follows: 2009 2008 % % Loans and borrowings 2.7-6.3 2.0-4.0 Finance leases 6.0 6.0 Fair value hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 3 January 2010 m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 5.7 5.7 Derivative financial assets 0.5 0.5 5.7 0.5 6.2 Derivative financial liabilities 9.8 9.8 5.7 9.3 3.6 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 4 January 2009 m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 5.2 5.2 Derivative financial assets 0.2 0.2 5.2 0.2 5.4 Derivative financial liabilities 16.0 16.0 5.2 15.8 10.6 There have been no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during 2009 and 2008.
129 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 20.
Employee benefits Morgan Crucible operates a number of defined benefit arrangements as well as defined contribution plans.
The defined benefit plans are primarily in the UK, USA and Europe and predominately provide pensions based on service and career average pay.
In addition post-retirement medical plans are operated in the USA.
2009 2009 2009 2009 Rest of 2009 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Pension plans and employee benefits Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 8.7 22.5 2.1 33.3 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 333.4 111.4 1.0 10.0 455.8 Fair value of plan assets 298.9 73.9 0.5 9.7 383.0 Deficit 34.5 46.2 23.0 2.4 106.1 Unrecognised past service costs 0.2 0.2 Net obligations 34.5 46.2 22.8 2.4 105.9 Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation At 5 January 2009 278.5 131.6 25.0 11.2 446.3 Current service cost 1.4 2.0 0.4 1.4 5.2 Interest cost 17.7 7.3 1.1 0.3 26.4 Actuarial losses 50.1 1.5 0.7 0.7 53.0 Benefits paid 15.8 7.2 1.3 1.6 25.9 Contributions by members 1.5 1.5 Past service costs 0.2 0.2 Curtailments and settlements 1.3 0.7 2.0 Exchange adjustments 13.8 1.9 0.1 15.6 At 3 January 2010 333.4 120.1 23.5 12.1 489.1 Movements in fair value of plan assets At 5 January 2009 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5 Expected return on plan assets 17.7 4.1 0.3 22.1 Actuarial gains 25.4 7.6 1.3 34.3 Contributions by employer 4.7 6.7 1.2 1.4 14.0 Contributions by members 1.5 1.5 Benefits paid 15.8 7.2 1.3 1.6 25.9 Exchange adjustments 7.5 7.5 At 3 January 2010 298.9 73.9 0.5 9.7 383.0 Actual return on assets 43.1 11.7 1.6 56.4 2009 2009 2009 2009 Rest of 2009 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Pension plans and employee benefits Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement Current service cost and past service cost 1.4 2.0 0.4 1.4 5.2 Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation 17.7 7.3 1.1 0.3 26.4 Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 17.7 4.1 0.3 22.1 Gain on curtailment of US and French employee benefit schemes 1.3 0.7 2.0 Total expense 1.4 3.9 0.8 1.4 7.5 130 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Employee benefits continued The expense is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2009 2008 m m Operating costs 3.2 6.7 Finance income 22.1 25.7 Finance expense 26.4 25.6 7.5 6.6 The Group has adopted the policy of recognising actuarial gains and losses immediately in the balance sheet through other comprehensive income.
Cumulative actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income since 5 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, are 95.7 million.
The fair value of the plan assets were as follows: 2009 2009 2009 2009 Rest of 2009 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Equities 125.0 39.7 164.7 Bonds 6.4 33.8 40.2 Matching insurance policies 167.5 0.5 1.7 169.7 Other 0.4 8.0 8.4 Total 298.9 73.9 0.5 9.7 383.0 Principal actuarial assumptions were: UK USA Europe % % % Discount rate 5.80 6.10 5.20 Expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 8.40 9.00 n a Bonds 5.30 5.70 n a Matching insurance 5.80 n a 5.20 Salary increase n a 2.70 2.50 Inflation 3.50 2.20 2.00 Pensions increase 3.40 3.40 n a 2.00 Mortality post-retirement: Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2009 25.8 years 21.2 years 22.5 years Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2029 27.1 years 21.0 years 25.0 years Expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices.
The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plans investment portfolio.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Balance sheet Present value of defined benefit obligation 489.1 446.3 450.7 446.1 466.3 Fair value of plan assets 383.0 344.5 403.0 403.4 342.1 Deficit 106.1 101.8 47.7 42.7 124.2 Unrecognised past service costs 0.2 Net obligations 105.9 101.8 47.7 42.7 124.2 131 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 20.
Employee benefits continued 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Experience losses gains Experience losses gains on defined benefit obligation 2.2 1.7 0.2 2.0 8.6 Experience gains losses on plan assets 34.3 104.7 17.5 7.2 26.0 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are: 2009 2008 Increase Increase effect effect Change in assumption m m Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% 5.8 4.9 Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.1% 0.1 0.1 Inflation Increase by 0.1% 3.6 2.8 Mortality post-retirement Pensioners live 1 year longer 8.8 8.2 The 2009 expense recognised in the consolidated income statement includes a 1.3 million gain on curtailment of US employee benefit schemes.
The curtailment gain of 0.7 million in Europe arose as a result of two European employee benefit schemes being withdrawn.
The unrecognised past service cost in France was as a result of a change in future benefit accrual.
This will be amortised over 13 years.
2008 2008 2008 2008 Rest of 2008 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Pension plans and employee benefits Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 10.1 23.9 2.1 36.1 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 278.5 121.5 1.1 9.1 410.2 Fair value of plan assets 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5 Net obligations 13.1 61.4 24.4 2.9 101.8 Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation At 5 January 2008 325.1 95.0 20.1 10.5 450.7 Current service cost 2.6 1.9 0.5 1.5 6.5 Interest cost 18.4 5.9 1.0 0.3 25.6 Actuarial gains 55.2 1.1 1.2 0.2 57.7 Benefits paid 14.3 5.6 1.3 1.2 22.4 Contributions by members 1.7 1.7 Curtailments and settlements 0.2 0.2 Exchange adjustments 35.5 5.9 0.3 41.7 At 4 January 2009 278.5 131.6 25.0 11.2 446.3 Movements in fair value of plan assets At 5 January 2008 322.6 71.2 0.5 8.7 403.0 Expected return on plan assets 20.1 5.3 0.3 25.7 Actuarial losses 71.1 33.1 0.5 104.7 Contributions by employer 6.4 5.0 1.3 1.0 13.7 Contributions by members 1.7 1.7 Benefits paid 14.3 5.6 1.3 1.2 22.4 Exchange adjustments 27.4 0.1 27.5 At 4 January 2009 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5 Actual return on assets 51.0 27.8 0.2 79.0 132 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Employee benefits continued 2008 2008 2008 2008 Rest of 2008 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement Current service costs 2.8 1.9 0.5 1.5 6.7 Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation 18.4 5.9 1.0 0.3 25.6 Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 20.1 5.3 0.3 25.7 Total expense 1.1 2.5 1.5 1.5 6.6 The fair values of the plan assets were as follows: 2008 2008 2008 2008 Rest of 2008 UK USA Europe world Total m m m m m Equities 97.8 35.3 133.1 Bonds 7.1 34.5 41.6 Matching insurance policies 153.3 0.6 1.6 155.5 Other 7.2 0.4 6.7 14.3 Total 265.4 70.2 0.6 8.3 344.5 Principal actuarial assumptions were: UK USA Europe % % % Discount rate 6.50 6.10 5.60 Expected rate of return on plan assets Equities 8.00 8.00 n a Bonds 5.00 4.70 n a Matching insurance 6.50 n a 5.60 Salary increase n a 2.50 2.50 Inflation 2.80 2.00 2.00 Pensions increase 2.60 3.15 n a 2.00 Mortality - post-retirement: Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2008 25.7 years 21.2 years 22.5 years Life expectancy of a male retiring at age 60 in 2028 27.1 years 21.2 years 25.4 years The actual liability in respect of global employee benefits will not be known until the last payments have been made.
In placing a current estimate on the Companys past service benefit obligations, a number of assumptions about the future are required.
For defined benefit schemes, the Directors make annual estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, the Directors consider advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Defined contribution plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 3.9 million 2008: 2.6 million.
Share-based payments During 2004, the Group established a new Long Term Incentive Plan and a new Executive Share Option Scheme.
During 2004, the Company also renewed its all-Employee Sharesave Scheme and took the opportunity to extend a similar scheme to employees in Germany.
During 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 the Group made awards under the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan.
During 2005 and 2006 the Group made awards under the 2004 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Also in 2005, 2007, 2008 and 2009 the Company granted options under the UK all-Employee Sharesave Scheme and in 2008 the Company granted options under the German all-Employee Sharesave Scheme.
During 2008, the Group established The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan and awards were made under this plan in 2008 and 2009.
Additionally, equity-settled share option grants and awards made under the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 are outstanding.
In accordance with the transitional provisions under IFRS 1, the recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied to these grants.
133 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 20.
Employee benefits continued The terms and conditions of all awards and grants made since 7 November 2002 are as follows: Number Contractual Grant date Employees entitled of instruments Vesting conditions life of option Awards granted to senior employees in 2009 under Three years of service plus The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 3,426,473 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to UK employees in 2009 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 1,937,568 Three years of service 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2009 Three years of service plus under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 5,085,721 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2008 under Three years of service plus The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 2,888,005 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to UK employees in 2008 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 1,089,783 Three years of service 3 years Options granted to German employees in 2008 under The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Option Scheme for Employees in Germany 278,451 Three years of service 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2008 Three years of service plus satisfaction under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 2,691,123 of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to UK employees in 2007 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 856,885 Three years of service 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2007 Three years of service plus under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 1,540,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to senior employees in 2006 Three years of service plus under the Directors Share Option Plan 2006 1,000,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years Options granted to senior employees in 2006 Three years of service plus under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 398,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2006 Three years of service plus under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 477,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to UK employees in 2005 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 976,614 Three years of service 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2005 Three years of service plus under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 3,804,820 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Awards granted to senior employees in 2004 Three years of service plus under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 5,084,031 satisfaction of performance criteria 3 years Options granted to senior employees in 2005 under Three years of service plus the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 2,097,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years Options granted to senior employees in 2004 Three years of service plus under the Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 3,157,500 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years Options granted to UK employees in 2004 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 2004 521,884 Three years of service 3 years Options granted to German employees in 2004 under The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Option Scheme for Employees in Germany 516,844 Three years of service 3 years Options granted to UK employees in 2003 under the Employee Sharesave Scheme 1995 779,421 Three years of service 3 years Options granted to senior employees in 2004 under Three years of service plus the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 263,000 satisfaction of performance criteria 10 years Options granted to senior employees in 2002 under Three years of service plus satisfaction the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 1,780,000 of performance criteria 10 years 134 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Employee benefits continued Performance criteria for Long Term Incentive Plan 2004, Directors Share Option Plan 2006 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 For awards granted from 2004 to 2006 inclusive, the extent to which awards vested depended on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR ranking against the TSR of the other companies in the FTSE 350 measured over the performance period.
If the Companys TSR placed it at the median, then 30% of the awards would vest on the third anniversary of the date of the grant.
If the Companys TSR placed it at the upper quartile, then 100% of the option would vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Between the median and upper quartile, the option would vest on a straight-line basis.
Below the median, none of the shares would vest.
In 2007 additional performance criteria were attached to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004.
The TSR performance criteria referred to above now only relate to 50% of awards made.
The extent to which the other 50% of these awards vest will depend on the Companys earnings per share EPS compared with the Retail Price Index RPI.
The full 50% will vest if, over the three-year performance period, the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 10% per annum.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards vesting will be interpolated between 15% and 50%.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 4% per annum then 15% of the awards will vest.
If the Companys EPS increases by less than the sum of the RPI increase and 4% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest.
In 2008 further changes were made to the performance criteria attached to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 for awards made in 2008 and onwards.
For all participants excluding executive Directors the TSR performance criteria referred to above now only relate to 33.3% of awards made.
The extent to which the other 66.7% of these awards vest will depend on the Companys EPS compared with the RPI.
The full 66.7% will vest if, over the three-year performance period, the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 10% per annum.
For executive Director participants the conditions remain unchanged from 2007.
In 2009 further changes were made to the performance criteria attached to the Long Term Incentive Plan 2004.
For all participants the TSR performance criteria referred to above now relate to 100.0% of awards made.
In addition, an improvement must be shown in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Performance criteria for The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan The extent to which awards will vest will depend on the Companys EPS compared with the RPI.
Participants are able to defer up to 75% of their annual bonus into Company shares, subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee.
Under the 2008 grant, the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares.
Participants must hold the deferred shares for three years to be eligible for a matching award.
Matching shares may be earned at the end of three years in the event that a stretching EPS target has been met.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 15% per annum then matching shares equal to three times the deferred shares will be earned.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards will be interpolated between 0.25x deferred shares and 1.75x deferred shares.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than the sum of the annual RPI increase and 4% per annum then matching shares equal to 0.25x deferred shares will be earned.
In 2009 additional criteria were attached to the Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan.
Under the 2009 grant, the Remuneration Committee allowed participants to defer up to 50% of their annual bonus into Company shares.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than 15% per annum then matching shares equal to three times the deferred shares will be earned.
If the Companys EPS increases by between 4% and 10% per annum then the proportion of awards will be interpolated between 0.25x deferred shares and 1.75x deferred shares.
If the Companys EPS increases by more than 4% per annum then matching shares equal to 0.25x deferred shares will be earned.
If the Companys EPS increases by less than 4% per annum then 0% of the awards will vest.
135 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 20.
Employee benefits continued Performance criteria for the Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 The diluted earnings per share for the Company must grow by at least 2% per annum in excess of RPI over the period of date of grant to date of vesting.
The fair values of services received are in return for awards made and share options granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on an appropriate model as shown in accounting policy note n. In the case of the Binomial Lattice model and Monte Carlo model the contractual life of the options and awards are used as an input.
Expectations of early exercise are incorporated into both of these models.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2004 2009 awards Fair value at measurement date 45.37p Share price 89.85p Exercise price n a Expected volatility expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model 40% Option life expressed as weighted average life used in the model 3 years Expected dividends 7.00% Risk-free interest rate 4.3% The Morgan Crucible Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan 2009 awards Fair value at measurement date 80.75p Share price 80.75p Exercise price n a Expected volatility expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model 40% Option life expressed as weighted average life used in the model 3 years Expected dividends n a Risk-free interest rate n a Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 There were no awards during 2009.
Employee Sharesave Schemes UK 2009 awards Fair value at measurement date 56.03p Share price 160.00p Exercise price 128.00p Expected volatility expressed as weighted average volatility used in the model 40% Option life expressed as weighted average life used in the model 3 years Expected dividends 2.5% Risk-free interest rate 2.1% The Morgan Crucible Savings Related Share Options Scheme for Employees in Germany There were no awards during 2009.
Employee Share Option Scheme 1995 There were no awards during 2009.
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
136 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Employee benefits continued The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: Weighted Weighted average Number average Number exercise price of options exercise price of options 3 January 3 January 4 January 4 January 2010 2010 2009 2009 Outstanding at the beginning of the period 94.08p 13,455,505 99.86p 11,803,800 Granted during the period 28.33p 10,449,762 51.24p 6,947,362 Forfeited during the period 149.95p 1,283,019 153.89p 895,840 Exercised during the period 0.00p 27.09p 4,160,580 Lapsed during the period 181.21p 2,503,056 76.34p 239,237 Outstanding at the end of the period 45.53p 20,119,192 94.08p 13,455,505 Exercisable at the end of the period 153.71p 1,625,391 157.39p 2,449,879 The weighted average share price at the date of share options exercised during the period was nil pence 2008: 216.52 pence.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range nil to 256.00 pence and a weighted average contractual life of 0.7 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The estimates of the fair value of the services received is measured based on either a Monte Carlo model, a Binomial Lattice option pricing model or a Black-Scholes Merton model.
The choice of model takes into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The IFRS 2 fair value charge expensed to the income statement was 2.0 million 2008: 2.2 million.
Provisions Closure and restructuring Other Environmental provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m Balance at 4 January 2009 5.1 10.3 4.3 19.7 Provisions made during the year 8.7 4.0 1.3 14.0 Provisions used during the year 6.2 5.3 1.3 12.8 Provisions reversed during the year 0.2 2.8 0.5 3.5 Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.1 0.4 0.5 1.0 Balance at 3 January 2010 7.3 5.8 3.3 16.4 Current 4.2 3.8 2.9 10.9 Non-current 3.1 2.0 0.4 5.5 7.3 5.8 3.3 16.4 Closure and restructuring provisions are based on the Groups restructuring programmes and represent committed expenditure at the balance sheet date.
The amounts provided are based on the costs of terminating relevant contracts, under the contract terms, and managements best estimate of other associated restructuring costs including professional fees, most of which are expected to be incurred over the next year.
The amounts provided also include the obligation for discounted future payments under a non-cancellable lease for the offices of the Companys former headquarters, net of expected rental income under sub-leases.
Other provisions include the settlement of European class actions, together with the associated legal costs.
The estimated costs are based on the Groups assessment of the probable future costs of these activities.
The Group expects to incur most of the liability in more than one year.
Environmental provisions are for known environmental issues which the Group will rectify over the next few years.
The estimated costs are based on managements best estimate of the costs required to remedy these problems.
The Group expects to incur most of the liability over the next five years.
137 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 22.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 m m Non-current Other trade payables 0.5 0.4 Non-trade payables 31.2 3.6 31.7 4.0 Current Other trade payables 96.6 93.9 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 153.7 127.0 250.3 220.9 Included in current non-trade payables and accrued expenses and non-current non-trade payables is 26.6 million and 27.5 million respectively of deferred contingent consideration on purchase of 51% of the Ordinary share capital of Clearpower Limited.
For further details see note 3.
Operating leases Leases as lessee Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2009 2008 m m Less than one year 7.9 6.1 Between one and five years 19.6 18.2 More than five years 32.0 34.6 59.5 58.9 The Group leases a number of properties under operating leases of varying duration.
In some cases, during the life of the lease, the rental payable is reviewed after a fixed period to reflect market rentals.
Leases as lessor The total of future minimum sub-lease income under non-cancellable sub-leases is 2.8 million 2008: 5.3 million.
Capital commitments Commitments for property, plant and equipment and computer software expenditure for which no provision has been made in these accounts amount to 2.7 million 2008: 3.8 million for the Group.
Contingencies There are contingent liabilities on bills discounted by the Group amounting to 0.8 million 2008: 0.8 million.
The Group has been subject to legal claims in the USA, Canada and Europe.
Settlements for the majority of these have been agreed.
There remain provisions in respect of these claims of 0.7 million 2008: 2.3 million.
The Board, having taken legal advice, is of the opinion that the remainder of these actions will not have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
In an international group of companies a variety of claims arise from time to time.
Provision has been made in these accounts against those claims which the Directors consider meet the requirements of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and are likely to result in significant liabilities.
138 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Related parties Identification of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries a list of principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 43, with its associates see note 12 and with its Directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel The Company has written service contracts or letters of appointment with each of its Directors, under which the Directors receive a salary or a fee and other emoluments.
The key management of the Group and parent Company consists of the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Their compensation charged in the year was: 2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.4 3.1 Pension and other post-employment costs 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 0.7 0.8 Termination payments 0.4 Non-executive Directors fees and benefits 0.3 0.3 Total compensation of key management personnel 3.7 4.9 Information on executive Directors remuneration is given in the Remuneration report on pages 77 to 85.
Transactions in connection with former Directors During the year the Group made payments on behalf of former Chief Executive Ian Norris of 1.5 million 2008: 1.0 million to cover the costs of his legal defence against extradition to stand trial in the USA.
In addition, the Group recovered fees of 1.6 million 2008: nil million in respect of court cost awards relating to legal costs expended on behalf of Ian Norris in prior periods.
The Group also made payments to former Chief Executive Warren Knowlton to reimburse him for US employer social costs in respect of his time with the Group.
Other related party transactions 2009 2008 m m Sales to associates 12.4 3.6 Interest income from associate 4.1 The balances with our associates are shown in note 15.
During the year, the Group acquired a controlling interest in Clearpower Limited.
As a result, Clearpower Limited ceased to be an associate and is accounted for as a subsidiary from the date control was attained.
The Group had related party relationships with Clearpower Limited, as an associate, in the comparative year.
In 2009 the Group acquired a significant interest in Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited and started to account for it as an associate.
The transactions with associates reported in 2009 refer to Integrated Survivability Technologies Limited.
Subsequent events There have been no material events since the year end.
