Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors have elected to prepare the Responsibility statement annual report, directors remuneration report parent Company financial statements in We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the financial statements in accordance accordance with United Kingdom Generally the financial statements, prepared in with applicable law and regulations.
Accepted Accounting Practice United accordance with International Financial Kingdom Accounting Standards and Company law requires the directors to prepare Reporting Standards, give a true and fair applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial financial statements are required by law The directors are required by the IAS Regulation position and profit or loss of the Company to give a true and fair view of the state of to prepare the group financial statements and the undertakings included in the affairs of the Company.
In preparing these under International Financial Reporting consolidation taken as a whole: and financial statements, the directors are Standards IFRS as adopted by the European required to: the management report, which is Union.
The group financial statements are incorporated into the directors report, also required by law to be properly prepared select suitable accounting policies and includes a fair review of the development in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 then apply them consistently: and performance of the business and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
make judgements and estimates that are and the position of the Company International Accounting Standard 1 requires reasonable and prudent: and and the undertakings included in the that IFRS financial statements present fairly consolidation taken as a whole, together state whether applicable UK Accounting for each financial year the Companys with a description of the principal risks Standards have been followed, subject financial position, financial performance and uncertainties that they face.
to any material departures disclosed and cash flows.
This requires the faithful and explained in the financial statements.
By order of the board on 20 May 2009 and representation of the effects of transactions, signed on its behalf by: other events and conditions in accordance The directors are responsible for keeping with the definitions and recognition criteria proper accounting records that disclose Ben Gordon for assets, liabilities, income and expenses with reasonable accuracy at any time the Neil Harrington set out in the International Accounting financial position of the Company and Standards Boards Framework for the enable them to ensure that the parent preparation and presentation of financial Company financial statements comply statements.
In virtually all circumstances, with the Companies Act 1985.
They are a fair presentation will be achieved also responsible for safeguarding the by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
assets of the Company and hence for taking However, directors are also required to: reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
properly select and apply accounting policies: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate present information, including accounting and financial information included on the policies, in a manner that provides Companys website.
Legislation in the United relevant, reliable, comparable and Kingdom governing the preparation and understandable information: and dissemination of financial statements may provide additional disclosures when differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
