Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation All intra-group transactions, balances, Mothercare plc is a company incorporated of Financial Statements: A revised income and expenses are eliminated in Great Britain under the Companies Act presentation on consolidation.
The address of the registered office Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Business combinations is given in the shareholder information on payment: vesting conditions and The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted page 87.
The nature of the groups operations cancellations for using the purchase method.
The cost of and its principal activities are set out in note 5 the acquisition is measured at the aggregate and in the business review on pages 5 to 18.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable of the fair values, at the date of exchange, financial instruments and obligations These financial statements were presented of assets given, liabilities incurred or arising on liquidation in pounds sterling because that is the assumed, and equity instruments issued by currency of the primary economic Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial the group in exchange for control of the environment in which the group operates.
Instruments: Disclosures acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 2.
Significant accounting policies identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Embedded Derivatives Basis of presentation liabilities that meet the conditions for The groups accounting period covers the Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible Assets recognition under IFRS 3 Business 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009.
The Combinations are recognised at their fair Improvements to IFRSs comparative period covered the 52 weeks value at the acquisition date, except for ended 29 March 2008.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition non-current assets or disposal groups that and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items are classified as held for sale in accordance Basis of accounting with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale The groups financial statements have been The directors anticipate that the adoption and Discontinued Operations, which are prepared in accordance with International of these standards and interpretations in recognised and measured at fair value less Financial Reporting Standards IFRS future periods will have no material impact costs to sell.
adopted for use in the European Union and on the groups financial statements when with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 the relevant standards come into effect.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised applicable to companies reporting under as an asset and initially measured at cost, The financial statements have been IFRS.
They therefore comply with Article 4 of being the excess of the cost of the business prepared on the historical cost basis, the EU IAS Regulation.
combination over the groups interest in the except for the revaluation of financial net fair value of the identifiable assets, At the date of authorisation of these instruments, and on the going concern basis, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
financial statements, the following standards as described in the going concern statement If, after reassessment, the groups interest and interpretations, which have not been in the corporate governance report on in the net fair value of the acquirees applied in these financial statements, were page 29.
The principal accounting policies identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent in issue but not yet effective: are set out below.
liabilities exceeds the cost of the business IFRS 8 Operating segments Basis of consolidation combination, the excess is recognised The consolidated financial statements immediately in the income statement.
IFRS 3 revised January 2008 Business incorporate the financial statements of the Combinations Goodwill Company and entities controlled by the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Company its subsidiaries made up to the excess of the cost of acquisition over Share transactions 28 March 2009.
Control is achieved where the groups interest in the fair value of the Company has the power to govern IFRIC 12 Service commission agreements the identifiable assets and liabilities of a the financial and operating policies of an subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes investee entity so as to obtain benefits from entity at the date of acquisition.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset of Real Estate The results of subsidiaries acquired or at cost and is subsequently measured disposed of during the financial year IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment at cost less any accumulated impairment are included in the consolidated income in a Foreign Operation losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as statement from the effective date of an asset is reviewed for impairment at least Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 acquisition or up to the effective date annually.
Any impairment is recognised Cost of an Investment in Subsidiary of disposal, as appropriate.
immediately in profit or loss and is not Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Where necessary, adjustments are made subsequently reversed.
to the financial statements of subsidiaries Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated to bring the accounting policies used into and Separate Financial Statements line with those used by the group.
43 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Underlying earnings impacts described above could be highly For the purposes of impairment testing, The Company believes that underlying volatile depending on movements in goodwill is allocated to each of the groups profit before tax and underlying earnings exchange rates, this volatility will not be cash-generating units expected to benefit provides additional useful information for reflected in the cash flows of the group, from the synergies of the combination.
The term underlying earnings which will be based on the hedged rate.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has is not a defined term under IFRS and may In addition, foreign currency monetary been allocated are tested for impairment not therefore be comparable with similarly assets and liabilities are revalued to the annually, or more frequently when there is titled profit measurements reported by other closing balance sheet rate under IAS 21 an indication that the unit may be impaired.
It is not intended to be a The Effects of Changes in Foreign If the recoverable amount of the cashsubstitute for IFRS measures of profit.
The adjustment made generating unit is less than the carrying by the group therefore is to report its As the Company has chosen to present amount of the unit, the impairment loss underlying performance consistently an alternative earnings per share measure, is allocated first to reduce the carrying with the cash flows, reflecting the hedging a reconciliation of this alternative measure amount of any goodwill allocated to the which is in place.
to the statutory measure required by IFRS unit and then to the other assets of the unit is given in note 13.
Amortisation of intangible assets pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount The balance sheet includes identifiable of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss To meet the needs of shareholders and intangible assets which arose on the recognised for goodwill is not reversed in other external users of the financial acquisition of the Early Learning Centre.
statements the presentation of the income The average estimated useful life of the statement has been formatted to show On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or assets is as follows: more clearly, through the use of columns, jointly controlled entity, the attributable our underlying business performance which Trade name 20 years amount of goodwill is included in the provides more useful information on Customer relationships 5 to 10 years determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The amortisation of these intangible assets Revenue recognition The adjustments made to reported results does not reflect the underlying performance Revenue is measured at the fair value of the are as follows: of the business.
consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods Exceptional items Joint ventures and services provided in the normal course Due to their significance and one-off nature, Joint ventures are accounted for using of business, net of discounts, VAT and other certain items have been classified as the equity method whereby the interest sales related taxes.
The gains and losses on these in the joint venture is initially recorded discrete items, such as profits losses on the at cost and adjusted thereafter for the Sales of goods are recognised when disposal termination of property interests, post acquisition change in the groups goods are delivered and title has passed.
integration costs, restructuring costs, and share of net assets.
The profit or loss Sales to international franchise partners other non-operating items can have a of the group includes the groups share are recognised when the significant risks material impact on the absolute amount of of the profit or loss of the joint venture.
and rewards of ownership have transferred and trend in the profit from operations and which is on dispatch.
Leasing the result for the year.
Therefore any gains Leases are classified as finance leases Interest income is accrued on a time basis, and losses on such items are analysed as whenever the terms of the lease transfer by reference to the principal outstanding non-underlying on the face of the income substantially all the risks and rewards of and at the effective interest rate applicable, statement.
Further details of the exceptional ownership to the lessee.
All other leases which is the rate that exactly discounts items are provided in note 7. are classified as operating leases.
estimated future cash receipts through the Non-cash foreign currency adjustments expected life of the financial asset to that The group as lessor The Company has taken the decision not assets net carrying amount.
Rental income from operating leases is to adopt hedge accounting under IAS 39 recognised on a straight-line basis over the Profit from retail operations Financial Instruments: Recognition and term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs Profit from retail operations represents the Measurement.
The effect of not applying incurred in negotiating and arranging an profit generated from normal retail trading, hedge accounting under IAS 39 means that operating lease are added to the carrying prior to any gains or losses on property the reported results reflect the actual rate of amount of the leased asset and recognised transactions.
It also includes the volatility exchange ruling on the date of a transaction on a straight-line basis over the term of arising from accounting for derivative regardless of the cash flow paid by the the leases.
financial instruments under IAS 39, Financial group at the predetermined rate of Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, exchange.
In addition, any gain or loss as the Company has not adopted accruing on open contracts at a reporting hedge accounting.
period end is recognised in the result for the period regardless of the actual outcome of the contract on close-out.
Whilst the 44 The group as lessee included in the income statement.
Any asset resulting from this Assets held under finance leases are differences arising on non-monetary items calculation is limited to past service cost, recognised as assets of the group at their carried at fair value are included in the plus the present value of available refunds fair value or, if lower, at the present value profit or loss for the period except for and reductions in future contributions to of the minimum lease payments, each differences arising on the retranslation the scheme.
determined at the inception of the lease.
of non-monetary items in respect of which In consultation with the independent The corresponding liability to the lessor is gains and losses are recognised directly actuaries to the schemes, the valuation of included in the balance sheet as a finance in equity.
For such non-monetary items, the retirement benefit obligations has been lease obligation.
Lease payments are any exchange component of that gain or updated to reflect current market discount apportioned between finance charges loss is also recognised directly in equity.
rates, current market values of investments and reduction of the lease obligation so In order to hedge its exposure to certain and actual investment returns, and also as to achieve a constant rate of interest foreign exchange risks, the group enters considering whether there have been any on the remaining balance of the liability.
into forward contracts see below for details other events that would significantly affect Finance charges are charged directly of the groups accounting policies in respect the pension liabilities.
The impact of these against income, unless they are directly of such derivative financial instruments.
changes in assumptions and events has attributable to qualifying assets, in which been estimated in arriving at the valuation case they are capitalised.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated of the retirement benefit obligations.
financial statements, the assets and Rentals payable under operating leases liabilities of the groups foreign operations Taxation are charged to income on a straight-line are translated at exchange rates prevailing The tax expense represents the sum of the basis over the term of the relevant lease.
on the balance sheet date.
Income and tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Benefits received and receivable as an expense items are translated at the average The tax currently payable is based on incentive to enter into an operating lease exchange rates for the period unless taxable profit for the financial year.
Taxable are also spread on a straight-line basis exchange rates fluctuate significantly during profit differs from net profit as reported in over the lease term.
that period, in which case the exchange the income statement because it excludes rates at the date of transactions are used.
Foreign currencies items of income or expense that are taxable Exchange differences arising, if any, are The individual financial statements of or deductible in other financial years and classified as equity and transferred to the each group company are presented it further excludes items that are never groups translation reserve.
Such translation in the currency of the primary economic taxable or deductible.
The groups liability differences are recognised as income environment in which it operates its for current tax is calculated using tax rates or as expenses in the period in which the functional currency.
For the purpose of that have been enacted or substantively operation is disposed of.
the consolidated financial statements, the enacted by the balance sheet date.
results and financial position of each group Retirement benefit costs Deferred tax is the tax expected to be company are expressed in pounds sterling, Payments to defined contribution retirement payable or recoverable on differences which is the functional currency of the benefit schemes are charged as an expense between the carrying amounts of assets Company, and the presentation currency as they fall due.
and liabilities in the financial statements for the consolidated financial statements.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of and the corresponding tax bases used In preparing the financial statements of providing benefits is determined using the in the computation of taxable profit, and the individual companies, transactions Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial is accounted for using the balance sheet in currencies other than pounds sterling valuations being carried out at each method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally are recorded at the rates of exchange balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and recognised for all taxable temporary prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
losses are recognised in full in the period differences and deferred tax assets are At each balance sheet date, monetary in which they occur.
They are recognised recognised to the extent that it is probable assets and liabilities that are denominated outside of the income statement and that taxable profits will be available against in foreign currencies are retranslated at the presented in the statement of recognised which deductible temporary differences rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Such assets and liabilities Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried are not recognised if the temporary Past service cost is recognised immediately at fair value that are denominated in foreign difference arises from goodwill or from the to the extent that the benefits are already currencies are translated at the rates initial recognition other than in a business vested, and otherwise is amortised on a prevailing at the date when the fair value combination of other assets and liabilities straight-line basis over the average period was determined.
Non-monetary items that in a transaction that affects neither the tax until the benefits become vested.
are measured in terms of historical cost profit nor the accounting profit.
in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present Exchange differences arising on the value of the defined benefit obligation as settlement of monetary items, and on adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, the retranslation of monetary items, are and as reduced by the fair value of scheme 45 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued time to the project.
Capitalisation of these Inventories Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for costs ceases no later than the point at which Inventories are stated at the lower of cost taxable temporary differences arising on the software is substantially complete and and net realisable value.
Cost comprises investments in subsidiaries and associates, ready for its intended internal use.
These direct materials and, where applicable, and interests in joint ventures, except where costs are amortised on a straight-line basis direct labour costs and those overheads the group is able to control the reversal of over their expected useful lives, which are that have been incurred in bringing the the temporary difference and it is probable reviewed annually.
inventories to their present location and that the temporary difference will not condition.
Cost is calculated using the Impairment of tangible and intangible reverse in the foreseeable future.
Net realisable assets value represents the estimated selling The carrying amount of deferred tax assets At each balance sheet date, the group price less all estimated costs of completion is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling reduced to the extent that it is no longer and intangible assets to determine whether and distribution.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will there is any indication that those assets be available to allow all or part of the asset have suffered an impairment loss.
If any Financial instruments to be recovered.
such indication exists, the recoverable Financial assets and liabilities are amount of the asset is estimated in order to recognised on the groups balance sheet Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates determine the extent of the impairment loss when the group becomes a party to the that are expected to apply in the period if any.
Where the asset does not generate contractual provisions of the instrument.
when the liability is settled or the asset is cash flows that are independent from other realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited Trade receivables assets, the group estimates the recoverable in the income statement, except when it Trade receivables are measured at initial amount of the cash-generating unit to which relates to items charged or credited directly recognition at fair value, and are the asset belongs.
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is subsequently measured at amortised cost also dealt with in equity.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair using the effective interest rate method.
value less costs to sell and value in use.
Appropriate allowances for estimated Property, plant and equipment In assessing value in use, the estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the Property, plant and equipment is carried future cash flows are discounted to their income statement when there is objective at cost less accumulated depreciation present value using a pre-tax discount rate evidence that the asset is impaired.
The and any recognised impairment losses.
that reflects current market assessments allowance recognised is measured as the Depreciation is charged so as to write off of the time value of money and the risks difference between the assets carrying the cost or valuation of assets, other than specific to the asset for which the estimates amount and the present value of estimated land and assets in course of construction, of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
future cash flows discounted at the effective over their estimated useful lives, using the interest rate computed at initial recognition.
If the recoverable amount of an asset straight-line method, on the following bases: or cash-generating unit is estimated to be Cash and cash equivalents Freehold buildings 50 years less than its carrying amount, the carrying Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash Fixed equipment amount of the asset or cash-generating on hand and demand deposits, and other in freehold buildings 20 years unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
short term highly liquid investments that are Leasehold improvements the lease term An impairment loss is recognised as an readily convertible to a known amount of Fixtures, fittings expense immediately, unless the relevant cash and are subject to an insignificant risk and equipment 3 to 20 years asset is carried at a revalued amount, in of change in value.
which case the impairment loss is treated The gain or loss arising on the disposal Financial liabilities and equity as a revaluation decrease.
or retirement of an asset is determined Financial liabilities and equity instruments as the difference between the sales Where an impairment loss subsequently are classified according to the substance of proceeds and the carrying amount of reverses, the carrying amount of the asset the contractual arrangements entered into.
the asset and is recognised in income.
or cash-generating unit is increased to An equity instrument is any contract that the revised estimate of its recoverable evidences a residual interest in the assets of Intangible assets software amount, but so that the increased carrying the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Where computer software is not an integral amount does not exceed the carrying part of a related item of computer Bank borrowings amount that would have been determined hardware, the software is classified as an Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts had no impairment loss been recognised intangible asset.
The capitalised costs of are initially measured at fair value, net of for the asset or cash-generating unit in software for internal use include external direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including prior years.
A reversal of an impairment direct costs of materials and services premiums payable on settlement or loss is recognised as income immediately, consumed in developing or obtaining the redemption and direct issue costs, are unless the relevant asset is carried at a software and payroll and payroll-related accounted for on an accrual basis to the revalued amount, in which case the reversal costs for employees who are directly income statement using effective interest of the impairment loss is treated as a associated with and who devote substantial method and are added to the carrying 46 revaluation increase.
amount of the instrument to the extent that only sells existing assets or enters into including Black-Scholes calculations and they are not settled in the period in which transactions and future transactions in the Monte Carlo simulations.
The expected life they arise.
case of anticipatory hedges that it confidently used in the formula is adjusted, based on expects it will have in the future, based on managements best estimate, for the effects Trade payables past experience.
The group expects that any of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, Trade payables are initially measured at loss in value for these instruments generally and behavioural considerations.
fair value, and are subsequently measured would be offset by increases in the value of at amortised cost, using the effective interest For cash-settled share-based payments, the underlying transactions.
a liability equal to the portion of the goods Foreign exchange rate risk or services received is recognised at the Equity instruments Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the current fair value determined at each Equity instruments issued by the Company fair value of future cash flows of a financial balance sheet date.
are recorded as the proceeds are received, instrument will fluctuate because of net of direct issue costs.
The group also provides employees with the changes in foreign exchange rates.
the ability to purchase the groups ordinary Derivative financial instruments The group uses UK pounds sterling as its shares at 80 per cent of the current market The group uses forward foreign currency reporting currency.
As a result, the group value within an approved Save As You contracts to mitigate the transactional is exposed to foreign exchange rate risk Earn scheme.
The group records an expense impact of foreign currencies on the groups on financial assets and liabilities that are based on its estimate of the 20 per cent performance.
The groups financial risk denominated in a currency other than UK discount related to shares expected to management policy prohibits the use sterling, primarily in US dollars and Hong vest on a straight-line basis over the of derivative financial instruments for Kong dollars.
speculative or trading purposes and the Consequently, it enters into various contracts group does not therefore hold or issue 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key that reflect the changes in the value of any such instruments for such purposes.
sources of estimation uncertainty foreign exchange rates to preserve the Derivative financial instruments that are In the process of applying the groups value of assets, commitments and economic hedges but that do not meet accounting policies, which are described anticipated transactions.
The group also the strict IAS 39 Financial Instruments: in note 2, management has made the uses forward contracts, primarily in Recognition and Measurement hedge following judgements that have the most US dollars.
accounting rules are accounted for as significant effect on the amounts recognised financial assets or liabilities at fair value Provisions in the financial statements.
through profit or loss and hedge accounting Provisions are recognised when the group The key assumptions concerning the is not applied.
Forward foreign currency has a present obligation as a result of a future, and other key sources of estimation contracts are recognised initially at fair past event, and it is probable that the group uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that value, which is updated at each balance will be required to settle that obligation.
have a significant risk of causing a material sheet date.
Changes in the fair values Provisions are measured at the directors adjustment to the carrying amounts of are recognised in the income statement.
best estimate of the expenditure required assets and liabilities within the next financial to settle the obligation at the balance sheet Embedded derivatives year, are discussed below.
date, and are discounted to present value Derivatives embedded in other financial where the effect is material.
Retirement benefits instruments or other host contracts are Retirement benefits are accounted for under treated as separate derivatives when their Share-based payments IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined risks and characteristics are not closely The group has applied the requirements benefit plans, obligations are measured at related to those of the host contracts of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
discounted present value whilst plan assets and the host contracts are not measured The group issues cash-settled and equityare recorded at fair value.
at fair value through profit or loss.
settled share-based payments to certain Because of changing market and economic Market risk employees.
Equity-settled share-based conditions, the expenses and liabilities The group is exposed to market risk, payments are measured at fair value at actually arising under the plans in the future primarily related to foreign exchange and the date of grant.
The fair value determined may differ materially from the estimates interest rates.
The groups objective is to at the grant date of the equity-settled made on the basis of these actuarial reduce, where it deems appropriate to do share-based payments is expensed on a assumptions.
The plan assets are partially so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flows straight-line basis over the vesting period, comprised of equity and fixed-income associated with changes in interest rates, based on the groups estimate of shares instruments.
Therefore, declining returns foreign currency rates and of the currency that will eventually vest and adjusted for the on equity markets and markets for fixedexposure of certain net investments in effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
income instruments could necessitate foreign subsidiaries.
It is the groups policy Fair value is measured by use of the additional contributions to the plans in order and practice to use derivative financial valuation technique considered to be most to cover future pension obligations.
Also, instruments to manage exposures of appropriate for each class of award, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer fluctuations on exchange rates.
The group 47 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key directly related to the potentially impaired required to make judgements as to future sources of estimation uncertainty continued asset, the useful life over which cash flows demand requirements and to compare or shorter life of participants may have an will occur, their amount and the assets these with current inventory levels.
Factors impact on the amount of pension income residual value, if any.
Estimates of future that could impact estimate demand and or expense recorded in the future.
cash flows and the selection of appropriate selling prices are timing and success of discount rates relating to particular assets product ranges.
The interest rate used to discount postor groups of assets involve the exercise employment benefit obligations to present Allowances against the carrying value of a significant amount of judgement.
value is derived from the yields of senior, of trade receivables high-quality corporate bonds at the Further details of the accounting policy on Using information available at the balance balance sheet date.
These generally the impairment of stores property, plant sheet date, the group reviews its trade include AA-rated securities.
The discount and equipment are provided in note 2. receivable balances and makes rate is based on the yield of a portfolio judgements based on an assessment Impairment of goodwill of bonds whose weighted residual of past experience, debt ageing and Determining whether goodwill is impaired maturities approximately correspond known customer circumstance in order requires an estimation of the value in use of to the duration necessary to cover the to determine the appropriate level the cash-generating units to which goodwill entire benefit obligation.
of allowance required to account for has been allocated.
The value in use potential irrecoverable trade receivables.
Pension and other post-retirement benefits calculation requires the group to estimate are inherently long term, and future future cash flows expected to arise from experience may differ from the actuarial the cash-generating unit and a suitable assumptions used to determine the net discount rate in order to calculate present charge for pension and other postvalue.
The carrying amount of goodwill at retirement charges.
Note 33 to the the balance sheet date was 68.6 million.
consolidated financial statements describes Property restructuring and integration the principal discount rate, earnings provisions increase, and pension retirement benefit Descriptions of the provisions held at the obligation assumptions that have been balance sheet date are given at note 26. used to determine the pension and These provisions are estimates and the post-retirement charges in accordance actual costs and timing of future cash with IAS 19.
The calculation of any charge flows are dependent on future events.
Any relating to retirement benefits is clearly differences between expectations and the dependent on the assumptions used, which actual future liability is accounted for in the reflects the exercise of judgement.
The period when such determination is made.
assumptions adopted are based on prior experience, market conditions and the As a result of the purchase of Chelsea Stores advice of plan actuaries.
Holdings Limited on 19 June 2007, the group has provided for certain costs relating to the At 28 March 2009, the groups pension integration of the business into the existing liability was 25.4 million 2008: 2.0 million group and the resulting restructure of the asset.
Further details of the accounting combined property portfolio.
The majority policy on retirement benefits are provided of the provision relates to property in note 2. integration costs, comprising mainly of Impairment of stores property, plant and payments to be made to landlords on equipment vacating premises, and to restructure of Stores property, plant and equipment Early Learning Centres head offices, stock are reviewed for impairment on a periodic write offs, vacant space costs and legal basis, and whenever events or changes fees.
Management have estimated the in circumstances indicate that the related costs based on third party valuations carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Such circumstances or events could include: Allowances against the carrying value a pattern of losses involving the fixed asset: of inventory a decline in the market value for a particular The group reviews the market value of store asset: and an adverse change in the and demand for its inventories on a periodic business or market in which the store asset basis to ensure that recorded inventory is involved.
Determining whether an is stated at the lower of cost and net impairment has occurred typically requires realisable value.
In assessing the ultimate various estimates and assumptions, realisation of inventories, the group is 48 including determining what cash flow is 4.
Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue, all of which relates to continuing operations, is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Revenue sales of goods 723.6 676.8 Investment income 0.4 1.6 Total revenue 724.0 678.4 5.
Segmental information For management purposes, the group is currently organised into two operating segments: UK and International.
UK comprises the UK store and wholesale operations, catalogue and web sales.
The International business comprises the groups franchise and wholesale operations outside of the UK.
These two segments are distinguished by the different nature of their risks and returns.
It is considered that there are no secondary segments as all business originates in the UK.
Segmental information about the UK and International businesses is presented below.
52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 Unallocated corporate UK International expenses Consolidated million million million million Revenue External sales 578.8 144.8 723.6 Result Segment result underlying 32.1 13.9 8.8 37.2 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 11.8 Amortisation of intangibles 2.1 Exceptional items note 7 3.6 Profit from operations 43.3 Investment income 0.4 Finance costs 1.5 Profit before taxation 42.2 Taxation 11.9 Profit for the period 30.3 49 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 Unallocated corporate UK International expenses Consolidated million million million million Revenue External sales 565.0 111.8 676.8 Result Segment result underlying 38.0 9.6 9.1 38.5 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 2.7 Amortisation of intangibles 1.6 Exceptional items note 7 35.2 Profit from operations 4.4 Investment income 1.6 Finance costs 1.5 Profit before taxation 4.5 Taxation 4.4 Profit for the period 0.1 Corporate expenses not allocated to UK or International represent head office costs, board and senior management costs, insurance, annual and interim reporting costs and audit and professional fees.
52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 UK International Consolidated million million million Other information Capital additions 21.3 21.3 Depreciation and amortisation 22.0 22.0 Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 207.5 42.0 249.5 Unallocated corporate assets 130.8 Consolidated total assets 380.3 Liabilities Segment liabilities 165.9 13.2 179.1 Unallocated corporate liabilities 2.6 Consolidated total liabilities 181.7 50 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 UK International Consolidated million million million Other information Capital additions 20.4 20.4 Depreciation and amortisation 19.7 19.7 Balance sheet Assets Segment assets 191.4 30.4 221.8 Unallocated corporate assets 128.3 Consolidated total assets 350.1 Liabilities Segment liabilities 133.6 14.1 147.7 Unallocated corporate liabilities 4.4 Consolidated total liabilities 152.1 Corporate assets not allocated to UK or International represent goodwill, intangible assets, interests in joint ventures, current tax assets liabilities, deferred tax assets liabilities and cash at bank and in hand.
Seasonality of the Early Learning Centre Sales for the Early Learning Centre, which relate mainly to toys, are more heavily weighted towards the second half of the calendar year, with approximately 40 per cent of annual sales occurring in the third quarter mid-October to early January.
Exceptional and other non-underlying items Due to their significance and one-off nature, certain items have been classified as exceptional or non-underlying as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Exceptional items: Loss on disposal termination of property interests 2.1 16.3 1 Integration of ELC included in cost of sales 1.5 11.5 Integration of ELC included in admin expenses 7.3 UK central and sourcing restructure 0.1 Unwinding of discount on exceptional provisions included in finance costs 1.0 Other non-underlying items: 1 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 11.8 2.7 1 Amortisation of intangibles 2.1 1.6 Exceptional and other non-underlying items 5.1 34.1 1.
Included in non-underlying cost of sales, a credit of 8.2 million 2008: a charge of 10.4 million Loss on disposal termination of property interests During the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 current year a net charge of 2.1 million has been recognised in profit from operations relating to provisions against subleases and vacant property.
51 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Exceptional and other non-underlying items continued During the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 prior year, a net charge of 16.3 million was recognised in profit from operations relating to the optimisation of the UK portfolio which involves the closure and resiting of Mothercare and Early Learning Centre stores.
The tax effect of the loss on disposal of property interests in the current year was a credit of 0.6 million 2008: credit of 0.8 million.
Integration of the Early Learning Centre In the current year, costs of 1.5 million 2008: 11.5 million were charged to cost of sales relating to the restructure of the Early Learning Centres supply chain and the opening of Early Learning Centre inserts in Mothercare stores.
In the current year, costs of nil million 2008: 7.3 million were charged to administrative expenses relating to the restructure of the Early Learning Centres head offices in Swindon and London, the realignment of international franchise agreements and the integration programme.
The tax effect of the above costs in the current year was a credit of 0.4 million 2008: credit of 5.3 million.
Unwinding of discount on exceptional provisions In the current year, a charge of 1.0 million was recognised in finance costs relating to the unwinding of the discount on exceptional property provisions.
Non-cash foreign currency adjustments In the current year, a net profit of 11.8 million 2008: net profit of 2.7 million was recognised in cost of sales as a result of non-cash foreign currency adjustments under IAS 39 and IAS 21.
Amortisation of intangibles In the current year, amortisation of intangibles arising on the acquisition of the Early Learning Centre of 2.1 million 2008: 1.6 million was charged to cost of sales.
Profit from retail operations Profit from retail operations has been arrived at after charging note that 2008 figures include ELC from the effective date of acquisition : 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 375.6 345.1 Write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised as an expense 0.1 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.3 16.0 Amortisation of intangible assets software 2.6 2.1 Amortisation of intangible assets other included in non-underlying cost of sales 2.1 1.6 Net rent of properties 71.0 71.2 Hire of plant and equipment 1.5 1.1 Staff costs including directors : Wages and salaries including bonuses 91.2 81.0 Social security costs 7.0 4.6 Pension costs see note 33 1.2 0.7 Integration of ELC included in non-underlying cost of sales 1.5 11.5 Integration of ELC included in non-underlying admin expenses 7.3 Staff costs include a total charge in respect of share-based payments of 7.6 million 2008: 3.8 million, analysed in detail in note 32.
52 An analysis of the average monthly number of full and part-time employees throughout the group, including executive directors, is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 number number Number of employees 7,715 7,626 Full time equivalents 4,653 4,244 Details of directors emoluments, share options and beneficial interests are provided within the remuneration report on pages 34 to 37 and 76 to 79.
For the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009, profit from retail operations is stated after a net credit of 11.8 million 2008: net credit of 2.7 million to cost of sales as a result of non-cash foreign currency adjustments under IAS 39 and IAS 21.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.3 Total audit fees 0.4 0.4 Tax services 0.2 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 Corporate finance services 0.5 Total non-audit fees 0.2 0.8 The nature of tax services comprises corporation tax advice and compliance services.
Other services pursuant to legislation relates to shareholder prospectus and circular work in connection with the acquisition of Chelsea Stores Holdings Limited CSHL.
Corporate finance services relates to work in connection with the acquisition of CSHL.
Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
The policy for the approval of non-audit fees, together with an explanation of the services provided, is set out on page 32.
Investment income 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Interest on bank deposits 0.4 1.6 Investment income 0.4 1.6 53 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Finance costs 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Interest and bank fees on bank loans and overdrafts 0.4 1.1 1 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 1.1 0.4 Finance costs 1.5 1.5 1.
Includes a non-underlying charge of 1.0 million 2008: nil of unwinding of discounts on exceptional provisions.
Taxation The charge for taxation on profit for the period comprises: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Current tax: Current year 8.4 3.9 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.1 8.4 4.0 Deferred tax: see note 18 Current year 4.5 2.0 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.0 1.6 3.5 0.4 Charge for taxation on profit for the period 11.9 4.4 UK corporation tax is calculated at 28 per cent 2008: 30 per cent of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit for the period before taxation per the consolidated income statement as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Profit for the period before taxation 42.2 4.5 Profit for the period before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 30% 11.8 1.4 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.0 5.8 Impact of overseas tax rates 0.1 0.2 Change in tax rate 0.2 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised against capital gains 0.9 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.0 1.5 Charge for taxation on profit for the period 11.9 4.4 In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations amounting to 8.7 million 2008: 1.0 million has been credited directly to equity.
Dividends 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008 pence pence per share million per share million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period Final dividend for the prior year 8.3p 6.9 6.7p 4.7 Interim dividend for the current year 4.6p 4.0 3.7p 3.2 10.9 7.9 The proposed final dividend of 9.9p per share for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 was approved by the board after 28 March 2009, on 20 May 2009, and so, in line with the requirements of IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date, the related cost of 8.5 million has not been included as a liability as at 28 March 2009.
This dividend will be paid on 7 August 2009 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2009.
Earnings per share 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 83.5 80.6 Dilution option schemes 2.7 1.9 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 86.2 82.5 million million Earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 30.3 0.1 Non-cash foreign currency adjustments 11.8 2.7 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition of ELC 2.1 1.6 Exceptional items note 7 4.6 35.2 Tax effect of above items 1.6 6.4 Underlying earnings 26.8 27.8 pence pence Basic earnings per share 36.3 0.1 Basic underlying earnings per share 32.1 34.5 Diluted earnings per share 35.2 0.1 Diluted underlying earnings per share 31.1 33.7 55 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Subsidiaries A list of the groups significant investments in subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned, including the name and country of incorporation is given in note 4 to the Company financial statements.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation.
Investments in joint ventures Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Investments at start of year 0.8 Additions 0.3 1.0 Share of loss 0.4 0.2 Investments at end of year 0.7 0.8 Summary financial results and position of joint ventures: Total assets 3.5 2.9 Total liabilities 0.7 0.1 Total loss for the period 1.3 0.4 Details of the joint ventures are as follows: Proportion Proportion of ownership of voting Place of interest power held incorporation per cent per cent Mothercare-Goodbaby China Retail Limited Hong Kong 30 50 Gurgle Limited Great Britain 50 50 56 16.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible assets Customer Goodwill Trade name relationships Software Total million million million million million Cost As at 31 March 2007 7.4 7.4 Additions 3.1 3.1 Acquisition of subsidiary 68.6 25.0 5.5 0.5 31.0 As at 29 March 2008 68.6 25.0 5.5 11.0 41.5 Additions 5.0 5.0 As at 28 March 2009 68.6 25.0 5.5 16.0 46.5 Amortisation and impairment As at 31 March 2007 2.2 2.2 Amortisation 1.0 0.6 2.1 3.7 As at 29 March 2008 1.0 0.6 4.3 5.9 Amortisation 1.2 0.9 2.6 4.7 As at 28 March 2009 2.2 1.5 6.9 10.6 Net book value As at 31 March 2007 5.2 5.2 As at 29 March 2008 68.6 24.0 4.9 6.7 35.6 As at 28 March 2009 68.6 22.8 4.0 9.1 35.9 Goodwill, trade name and customer relationships relate to the acquisition of the Early Learning Centre on 19 June 2007.
Trade name and customer relationships are amortised over a useful life of 20 and five to ten years respectively.
The remaining amortisation periods for intangible assets are as follows: Trade name 18 years Customer relationships 6 years Software 3 years Impairment of goodwill The group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill acquired through the business combination has been allocated to the two groups of cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination, being UK and International, which are also reporting segments.
These represent the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates, the anticipated future operating synergies from the combination of Mothercare and Early Learning Centre businesses arising through optimising the enlarged UK store portfolio, sourcing benefits and cost efficiencies and expected changes to selling prices.
Management estimates the discount rate using a pre tax rate of 11.3% 2008: 9.1% which reflects the time value of money and risks related to the CGUs.
The cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by the board covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period assume a nil growth rate, which does not exceed the long term growth rate for the market in which the group operates.
The value in use calculations use this growth rate to perpetuity.
The group has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU.
With reasonable possible changes in key assumptions, there is no indication that the carrying amount of the goodwill would be reduced to a lower amount.
Software Software additions include 1.3 million 2008: 1.4 million of internally generated intangible assets.
57 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
At 28 March 2009, the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 4.3 million 2008: 2.1 million.
Freehold land and buildings with a carrying amount of 12.8 million 2008: 13.0 million have been pledged to secure the groups borrowing facility see note 22.
The group is not allowed to pledge these assets as security for other borrowings.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the group and movements thereon in the current and prior reporting period.
Accelerated Short term Retirement Sharetax timing benefit based Intangible Tax depreciation differences obligations payment assets losses Total million million million million million million million At 31 March 2007 6.5 1.3 0.9 0.6 3.9 0.2 Acquisition of subsidiary 2.1 1.2 8.5 5.2 Credit charge to income 1.6 3.3 2.1 0.3 0.4 3.9 0.4 Credit to equity 1.0 1.0 At 29 March 2008 2.8 5.8 0.2 0.9 8.1 4.4 Credit charge to income 0.4 3.6 1.4 0.5 0.6 3.5 Credit to equity 8.7 8.7 At 28 March 2009 2.4 2.2 7.1 1.4 7.5 0.8 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Deferred tax assets 15.6 6.7 Deferred tax liabilities 14.8 11.1 0.8 4.4 19.
Inventories 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Underlying 85.8 70.8 Non-underlying foreign currency adjustments 8.3 Finished goods and goods for resale 94.1 70.8 Due to the significant impact of the movement in foreign exchange rates over the period, particularly the US dollar, we have separately disclosed the underlying stock value.
This has been calculated on a basis consistent with the underlying performance, reflecting hedging in place, before non-underlying foreign currency adjustments made in accordance with IAS 21 see note 2.
The amount of write down of inventories to net realisable value recognised as a net credit in the period is 0.1 million 2008: net credit of 0.2 million.
59 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Trade and other receivables 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Trade receivables gross 36.1 26.9 Allowance for doubtful debts 2.0 2.2 Trade receivables net 34.1 24.7 Prepayments and accrued income 16.4 23.3 Other receivables 3.3 3.1 VAT receivable 1.9 1.4 55.7 52.5 The following summarises the movement in the allowance for doubtful debts: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Balance at beginning of year 2.2 0.6 Utilised in the period 0.2 Charged in the period 0.2 Acquisition of subsidiary 1.4 Balance at end of year 2.0 2.2 The groups exposure to credit risk inherent in its trade receivables is discussed in note 23.
The group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the customer base being unrelated.
Before accepting any new credit customer, the group obtains a credit check from an external agency to assess the credit quality of the potential customer and then sets credit limits on a customer by customer basis.
The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables is considered to be high.
The ageing of the groups current trade receivables is as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Trade receivables gross 36.1 26.9 Allowance for doubtful debts 2.0 2.2 Trade receivables net 34.1 24.7 Of which: Amounts neither impaired nor past due on the reporting date 34.1 23.2 Amounts past due: Less than one month 0.6 1.5 Between one and three months 0.5 1.3 Between three and six months 0.5 0.7 Greater than six months 0.4 0.2 Allowance for doubtful debts 2.0 2.2 Trade accounts receivable net carrying amount 34.1 24.7 Provisions for doubtful trade accounts receivable are established based upon the difference between the receivable value and the estimated net collectible amount.
The group establishes its provision for doubtful trade accounts receivable based on its historical loss experiences.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is disclosed in note 23.
No interest is charged on trade receivables, however, the right to charge interest on outstanding balances is retained.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the group and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Borrowing facilities The group had no outstanding borrowings as at 28 March 2009 and 29 March 2008.
Overdraft The group has an unsecured overdraft facility of 10 million 2008: 10 million which bears interest at 1.00 per cent above bank base rates.
None of this facility was drawn down at 28 March 2009.
Committed borrowing facilities The group had 55 million 2008: 65 million of committed secured borrowing facilities available at 28 March 2009 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met.
The final maturity date of this facility is 31 May 2010.
If the facility were to be drawn upon it would bear interest at 1.00 per cent above LIBOR.
Risks arising from financial instruments A.
Terms, conditions and risk management policies The board approves treasury policies and senior management directly controls day-to-day operations within these policies.
The major financial risks to which the group is exposed relate to movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Where appropriate, cost effective and practicable the group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other instruments is permitted.
The groups financial risk management policy is described in note 2.
The following table provides an overview of the notional value of derivative financial instruments outstanding at year end by maturity profile: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Foreign currency forward exchange contracts Not later than one year 49.9 65.3 After one year but not more than five years 14.9 49.9 80.2 The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the returns to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 27 and 28.
Foreign currency risk management The group incurs foreign currency risk on sales and purchases whenever they are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency.
This risk is managed through holding derivative financial instruments.
The group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce its cash flow exposure to exchange rate movements, primarily on the US dollar.
The group has not hedge accounted for its forward foreign currency contracts under the requirements of IAS 39.
Therefore, from 27 March 2005 onwards, derivative financial instruments have been recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date and changes in their fair values have been recognised in the income statement.
These arrangements are designed to address significant foreign exchange exposures on forecast future purchases of goods for the following year and are renewed on a revolving basis as required.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts have been recognised separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in its fair value recognised in the income statement.
International sales represent 20 per cent 2008: 17 per cent of group sales.
Of these sales, 16 per cent were invoiced in foreign currency.
The group purchases product in foreign currency, representing approximately 32 per cent 2008: 27 per cent of purchases.
61 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Risks arising from financial instruments continued The carrying amount of the groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date is as follows: Liabilities Assets 28 March 29 March 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 2009 2008 million million million million US dollar 18.6 13.3 14.9 9.7 Euro 0.5 0.3 0.4 1.3 Hong Kong dollar 2.5 2.3 0.2 Singapore dollar 0.1 21.6 15.9 15.6 11.0 The total amounts of outstanding forward foreign currency contracts to which the group has committed is as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million At notional value 49.9 80.2 At fair value 7.3 0.5 In addition, the fair value of embedded derivatives is nil million 2008: 0.2 million.
Currency sensitivity analysis The groups foreign currency financial assets and liabilities are denominated mainly in US dollars.
The following table details the impact of a 10 per cent change in the value of pounds sterling against the US dollar.
A negative number indicates a net decrease in the carrying value of assets and liabilities and a corresponding loss in non-underlying profit where pounds sterling strengthens against the US dollar.
28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million US dollar impact 1.7 6.7 C. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the group in relation to lending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities.
The groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The Company has a credit policy in place and the exposure to counterparty credit risk is monitored.
The group mitigates its exposure to counterparty credit risk through minimum counterparty credit guidelines, diversification of counterparties, working within agreed counterparty limits and trade insurance and bank guarantees where appropriate.
The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure of the group.
The carrying amount is presented net of impairment losses recognised.
The maximum exposure to credit risk comprises trade receivables as shown in note 20 and cash of 24.8 million.
The average credit period on trade receivables was 17 days 2008: 18 days based on total group revenue.
D. Liquidity risk Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the groups short, medium and long term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in note 22 is a description of additional undrawn facilities that the group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Trade and other payables 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Current liabilities Trade payables 58.9 45.3 Payroll and other taxes including social security 2.2 1.9 Accruals and deferred income 45.1 46.5 Lease incentives 2.2 1.9 108.4 95.6 Non-current liabilities Lease incentives 19.6 15.5 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 57 days 2008: 41 days.
The group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Finance lease arrangements The group as lessee: It is the groups policy to lease certain of its cars under finance leases.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Future minimum payments due: Within one year 0.4 After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.1 Less finance charges allocated to future periods Present value of minimum lease payments 0.1 0.5 The present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Not later than one year 0.4 After one year but not more than five years 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 The average lease term is five years.
For the year ended 28 March 2009, the average effective borrowing rate was 15 per cent 2008: 14 per cent.
The fair value of the groups leased assets approximates their carrying amount.
Obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
63 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Provisions 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Current liabilities Property provisions 8.2 10.6 Integration provisions 3.3 12.9 Other provisions 0.4 0.5 Short term provisions 11.9 24.0 Non-current liabilities Property provisions 13.3 10.8 Integration provisions 0.7 Other provisions 0.4 0.6 Long term provisions 13.7 12.1 Property provisions 21.5 21.4 Integration provisions 3.3 13.6 Other provisions 0.8 1.1 Total provisions 25.6 36.1 The movement on total provisions is as follows: Property Integration Other Total provisions provisions provisions provisions million million million million Balance at 29 March 2008 21.4 13.6 1.1 36.1 Utilised in year 3.7 10.3 0.5 14.5 Charged in year 9.8 0.2 10.0 Released in year 7.1 7.1 Unwinding of discount 1.1 1.1 Balance at 28 March 2009 21.5 3.3 0.8 25.6 Property provisions principally represent the costs of store disposals or closures relating to the optimisation of the UK portfolio which involves the closure and resiting of Mothercare and Early Learning Centre stores and onerous lease costs relating to Early Learning Centres supply chain.
The provision was reviewed in the year and amounts no longer required were released.
Additional provisions have been made in the period principally for onerous lease costs relating to Early Learning Centres supply chain see note 7.
The timing of the utilisation of the above provisions is variable dependent upon the lease expiry dates of the properties concerned.
Integration provisions principally represent the restructure of the Early Learning Centres head offices and supply chain, the opening of Early Learning Centre inserts in Mothercare stores, the realignment of international franchise agreements and the integration programme.
The integration provisions are expected to be fully utilised by March 2010.
Other provisions principally represent provisions for uninsured losses, hence the timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain.
Called up share capital 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended 28 March 29 March 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 2009 2008 Number Number of shares of shares million million Authorised Ordinary shares of 50 pence each: Balance at beginning and end of year 105,000,000 105,000,000 52.5 52.5 Allotted, called up and fully paid Ordinary shares of 50 pence each: Balance at beginning of year 87,272,318 73,317,905 43.6 36.6 Issued under the Mothercare 2000 Executive Share Option Plan 188,976 114,955 0.1 0.1 Issued under the Mothercare Sharesave Scheme 141,338 29,964 0.1 Issued on acquisition of subsidiary 13,809,494 6.9 Balance at end of year 87,602,632 87,272,318 43.8 43.6 Further details of employee and executive share schemes are given in note 32.
Reserves Share premium Other Own Translation Retained account reserve shares reserve earnings Note million million million million million As at 31 March 2007 3.1 7.4 118.7 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 0.3 50.8 Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 33 3.6 Credit to equity for share-based payments 32 1.8 Purchase of own shares 2.5 Shares transferred to employees on vesting 0.1 0.1 Tax on items taken directly to equity 11 1.0 Dividends paid 12 7.9 Net profit for the financial year 0.1 As at 29 March 2008 3.4 50.8 9.8 110.0 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 0.9 Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 33 31.2 Credit to equity for share-based payments 32 2.5 Purchase of own shares 1.1 Shares transferred to employees on vesting 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 1.2 Tax on items taken directly to equity 11 8.7 Dividends paid 12 10.9 Net profit for the financial year 30.3 As at 28 March 2009 4.3 50.8 10.6 1.2 109.1 The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Mothercare plc purchased in the market and held by the Mothercare Employee Trusts to satisfy options under the groups share option schemes see note 32.
65 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Reconciliation of cash flow from operating activities 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Profit from retail operations 45.8 20.9 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.3 16.0 Amortisation of intangible assets software 2.6 2.1 Amortisation of intangible assets other 2.1 1.6 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.4 1.7 Gain on non-underlying non-cash foreign currency adjustments 11.8 2.7 Equity-settled share-based payments 2.5 1.8 Movement in provision for costs of reorganisation of distribution network 0.7 Movement in property provisions 3.1 1.3 Movement in integration provisions 10.3 13.6 Movement in restructuring provisions 1.6 Movement in other provisions 0.3 0.3 Amortisation of lease incentives 2.2 2.8 Lease incentives received 6.6 0.9 Payments to retirement benefit schemes 5.0 4.3 Charge to profit from operations in respect of service costs of retirement benefit schemes 1.2 0.7 Operating cash flow before movement in working capital 47.8 46.2 Increase in inventories 14.9 2.4 Increase in receivables 2.3 3.8 Increase in payables 9.5 14.7 Cash generated from operations 40.1 54.7 Income taxes paid 5.2 2.9 Net cash flow from operating activities 34.9 51.8 30.
Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Cash at bank and in hand 24.8 22.7 Cash and cash equivalents 24.8 22.7 66 31.
Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Amounts recognised in cost of sales for the period: Minimum lease payments paid 73.3 72.7 Contingent rents 0.5 0.7 Minimum sublease payments received 1.3 1.1 Net rent expense for the period 72.5 72.3 Contingent rent relates to store properties where an element of the rent payable is determined with reference to store turnover.
At the balance sheet date, the group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Not later than one year 77.8 80.1 After one year but not more than five years 237.8 255.5 After five years 264.4 305.9 Total future minimum lease payments 580.0 641.5 At the balance sheet date, the group had contracted with sub-tenants for the following future minimum lease payments: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Not later than one year 1.2 1.5 After one year but not more than five years 2.1 3.2 After five years 4.2 6.7 Total future minimum lease payments 7.5 11.4 32.
Share-based payments An expense is recognised for share-based payments based on the fair value of the awards at the date of grant, the estimated number of shares that will vest and the vesting period of each award.
The charge for share-based payments under IFRS is 7.6 million 2008: 3.8 million of which 2.5 million 2008: 1.8 million was equity settled across the following schemes: A: Equity incentive awards B: Long term incentive plan and share matching scheme C: Executive share option scheme D: Save As You Earn schemes E: Executive Incentive Plan F: Performance Share Plan Details of the share schemes that the group operates are provided in the directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 37.
For each scheme, expected volatility was determined with reference to the 90-day volatility of the groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in each model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The dates of exercise are not disclosed, as it is not deemed practicable to do so.
67 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Equity incentive awards The number of shares outstanding under the chief executives equity incentive award is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 Number Number of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 45,000 Vested during year 45,000 Lapsed during year Balance at end of year B.
Equity awards under the long term incentive plan and the share matching scheme The number of shares outstanding under the long term incentive plan and the share matching scheme is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 Number Number of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 230,807 539,043 Awarded during year Lapsed during year 6,921 308,236 Vested during year 223,886 Balance at end of year 230,807 The fair value of the long term incentive plan and the share matching scheme awards is calculated using a Monte Carlo model to determine the present economic value, with the following assumptions: June Grant date 2005 Number of shares awarded 362,067 Share price at award date 292p Expected volatility 30.0% Expected dividend yield 3.00% Time to expiry 3.25 years Correlation to comparators 15.0% TSR element fair value 151p EPS element fair value 186p Under IFRS 2, the fair value of the EPS element of the award is calculated assuming that the TSR of the Company will be at least median within the comparator group.
68 C. Executive share option scheme Share options may be granted to executives and senior managers at a price equal to the average quoted market price of the groups shares on the date of grant.
The options vest after three years, conditional on the groups share price exceeding 3 per cent per annum compound growth over the vesting period.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, they expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the group before the options vest.
The number of options outstanding under the executive share option scheme is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended Weighted 28 March 29 March average 2009 2008 option Number Number price of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 225p 748,441 868,396 Granted during year Forfeited during year 318p 20,000 17,500 Exercised during year 309p 138,838 102,455 Expired during year Balance at end of year 202p 589,603 748,441 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 394p, ranging from 355p to 420p.
The options outstanding at 28 March 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.1 years.
The fair value of executive share options is calculated based on a Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: June November Grant date 2005 2004 Number of options granted 205,000 20,000 Share price at grant date 284p 299p Exercise price 284p 299p Expected volatility 25.0% 19.0% Risk free rate 4.75% 4.75% Expected dividend yield 2.60% 2.60% Time to expiry 3.25 years 3.25 years Fair value of option 54.3p 46.1p 69 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Share-based payments continued D. Save As You Earn schemes The employee Save As You Earn schemes are open to all employees and provide for a purchase price equal to the daily average market price on the date of grant, less 20 per cent.
The shares can be purchased during a two week period each year and are placed in the employee Save As You Earn trust for a three-year period.
The number of shares outstanding under the Save As You Earn schemes is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended Weighted 28 March 29 March average 2009 2008 exercise Number Number price of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 283p 980,953 342,620 Granted during year 237p 635,038 743,552 Forfeited during year 281p 197,933 75,255 Exercised during year 282p 188,976 29,964 Expired during year Balance at end of year 260p 1,229,082 980,953 The shares outstanding at 28 March 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.7 years.
The fair value of Save As You Earn share options is calculated based on a Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: December December November Grant date 2008 2007 2005 Number of options granted 635,038 743,552 373,584 Share price at grant date 237p 284p 282p Exercise price 237p 284p 282p Expected volatility 30.0% 25.0% 25.0% Risk free rate 2.00% 5.00% 4.50% Expected dividend yield 3.50% 3.00% 2.60% Time to expiry 3.25 years 3.25 years 3.25 years Fair value of option 41.1p 53.1p 53.0p E. Executive Incentive Plan The Executive Incentive Plan is a conditional award based on surplus value created over a three-year performance period.
The surplus value is calculated as the difference between the total shareholder return of Mothercare and that of the FTSE All-Share General Retailers Index, multiplied by Mothercares market capitalisation.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to allow up to 50 per cent of the award to be paid in shares and deferred for one year.
For accounting purposes it is assumed that the remuneration committee will exercise this discretion, so the cost of the equity-settled half of the award is now fixed at the grant date.
The cash-settled half of the award will be fair valued each year and a true-up adjustment made.
The fair value of the plan award is calculated using a binomial model with the following assumptions at grant date: July July July Grant date 2008 2007 2006 Market capitalisation at award date 337.2m 274.0m 261.8m Expected Mothercare share price volatility 25.0% 25.0% 30.0% Expected Index volatility 20.0% 15.0% 15.0% Risk free rate 5.05% 5.83% 4.90% Correlation between Mothercare and the Index 45.0% 35.0% 35.0% Time to expiry 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value at grant date 2.2m 2.0m 1.3m Fair value at 28 March 2009 4.6m 6.8m 6.6m 70 F. Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan is a conditional award of shares based on the expected growth in Mothercares profit before taxation over three years.
The number of shares outstanding under the Performance Share Plan is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 Number Number of shares of shares Balance at beginning of year 1,099,010 627,173 Awarded during year 1,006,482 628,623 Lapsed during year 135,477 156,786 Vested during year Balance at end of year 1,970,015 1,099,010 The fair value of the plan award is calculated based on Mothercares estimate of future profit per share growth.
November June November June December July Grant date 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 Number of shares awarded 39,576 958,500 59,671 568,952 15,051 652,294 Share price at date of grant 284p 374p 368p 400p 374p 343p Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil nil Time to expiry 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value per share nil nil 280p 304p 314p 288p 33.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees of Chelsea Stores Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries.
The total cost charged to income of 0.3 million 2008: 0.6 million represents contributions due and paid to these schemes by the group at rates specified in the rules of the plan.
Defined benefit schemes The group has operated two defined benefit pension schemes for employees of Mothercare UK Limited during the year.
On 28 March 2004, the final salary scheme was closed to new entrants and a career average scheme was introduced to replace it.
Existing members were asked to either increase their contributions from an average of 4.8 per cent to an average of 6.8 per cent or accrue future benefits on a career average basis.
In 2008 the schemes were closed to new entrants.
The pension scheme assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees of the fund are required to act in the best interest of the funds beneficiaries.
For the protection of members interests, the group has appointed three trustees, two of whom are independent of the group.
To maintain this independence, the trustees and not the group are responsible for appointing their own successors.
The most recent full actuarial valuations, were carried out as at 31 March 2008 and the next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2011 for both schemes.
The most recent full actuarial valuations were updated as at 28 March 2009 for the purpose of these disclosures.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The IAS 19 valuation conducted for the period ending 29 March 2008 produced a net defined pension surplus of 13.8 million.
However, in accordance with IAS 19 Paragraph 58, which states that surplus should only be recognised to the extent that economic benefit can be derived from such surplus, the recognised surplus was limited to 2.0 million.
The IAS 19 valuation conducted for the period ending 28 March 2009 produced a net defined pension deficit of 25.4 million, which has been recognised in full.
71 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The major assumptions used in the updated actuarial valuations were: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 Discount rate 6.5% 6.9% Future pension increases 3.1% 3.5% Expected rate of salary increases 4.2% 5.0% Expected return on schemes assets 7.2% 7.7% Analysed between: Equities 8.3% 8.5% Bonds 5.8% 6.0% Property 7.2% 7.4% Alternative assets 7.2% 7.4% Other assets 5.8% 6.0% The overall expected rate of return on assets is calculated as the weighted average of the expected returns from each of the asset classes.
The returns quoted above are net of investment management expenses but before adjustment to allow for the expected administrative and other expenses of running the Schemes.
The mortality assumptions used are the SAPS tables published by the CMI allowing for future improvements in line with the medium cohort projection and a 1 per cent Floor.
The effect of movements in the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities for every change in the relevant assumption are set out below: Impact on scheme Change in liabilities Assumption assumption million Discount rate - 0.1% - 3.8 Rate of salary growth - 0.5% - 1.6 Life expectancy 1 year 5.0 Amounts expensed in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Current service cost 2.5 3.8 Interest cost 11.4 10.2 Expected return on schemes assets 13.0 13.9 Past service cost 0.9 0.1 Current service cost, interest cost and expected return on schemes assets have been included in administrative expenses.
The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of 31.9 million 2008: a loss of 13.0 million, resulting in an actuarial loss of 44.9 million 2008: loss of 26.9 million.
There was an actuarial gain of 1.9 million 2008: a gain of 35.1 million relating to the defined benefit obligations.
As 11.8 million of the surplus as at 29 March 2008 was not recognised in the accounts, the amount recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense for the year ending 28 March 2009 is a loss of 31.2 million 2008: 3.6 million loss.
The total cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense is 16.5 million 2008: 14.7 million gain.
72 The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement schemes is as follows: 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Present value of defined benefit obligations 175.6 167.3 Fair value of schemes assets 150.2 181.1 Deficit surplus in schemes 25.4 13.8 Past service cost not yet recognised in balance sheet Unrecognised surplus 11.8 Liability asset recognised in balance sheet 25.4 2.0 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million At beginning of year 167.3 191.6 Service cost 2.5 3.8 Interest cost 11.4 10.2 Contribution from scheme members 1.5 1.3 Actuarial gains 1.9 35.1 Benefits paid 5.2 4.5 At end of year 175.6 167.3 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million At beginning of year 181.1 193.6 Actual return on schemes assets 31.9 13.0 Company contributions 4.7 3.7 Members contributions 1.5 1.3 Benefits paid 5.2 4.5 At end of year 150.2 181.1 73 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The analysis of the fair values of the schemes assets and the expected rates of return at each balance sheet date were: 28 March 28 March 29 March 29 March 2009 2009 2008 2008 per cent million per cent million Equities 8.3 64.5 8.5 88.1 Bonds 5.8 48.5 6.0 36.7 Property 7.2 23.3 7.4 31.3 Alternative assets 7.2 11.3 7.4 25.6 Other assets 5.8 2.6 6.0 0.6 150.2 181.1 The history of experience adjustments is as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended ended 28 March 29 March 31 March 1 April 26 March 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Present value of defined benefit obligations 175.6m 167.3m 191.6m 197.9m 165.8m Fair value of schemes assets 150.2m 181.1m 193.6m 180.4m 143.4m Deficit surplus in the schemes 25.4m 13.8m 2.0m 17.5m 22.4m Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 1.9m 35.1m 17.3m 19.8m 12.7m Percentage of schemes liabilities 1.1% 21.0% 9.0% 10.0% 7.7% Experience adjustments on scheme assets 44.9m 26.9m 1.2m 19.7m 3.4m Percentage of schemes assets 29.9% 14.9% 0.6% 10.9% 2.4% The estimated amount of cash contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during the 52 weeks ending 27 March 2010 is 8.0 million, including a one-off contribution of 3.0 million.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the group and its joint ventures are disclosed below 2008: nil.
Trading transactions During the year, group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the group: 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 Amounts Amounts Sales Purchase owed by owed to of goods of goods related parties related parties million million million million Joint ventures 1.5 0.8 Sales of goods to related parties were made at the groups usual cost prices.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the operating board including directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 37.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 March 29 March 2009 2008 million million Short term employee benefits 3.8 4.1 Post employment benefits 0.5 0.3 Termination benefits 0.1 Share-based payments 0.9 0.4 5.2 4.9 Other transactions with key management personnel There were no other transactions with key management personnel.
75 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements
