Independent auditors report on the Company financial statements To the shareholders of Mothercare plc We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit We have audited the parent Company the parent Company financial statements so as to obtain all the information and financial statements of Mothercare plc give a true and fair view and whether the explanations which we considered for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 parent Company financial statements have necessary in order to provide us with which comprise the balance sheet and been properly prepared in accordance with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the related notes 1 to 9.
These parent the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to assurance that the parent Company Company financial statements have been you whether in our opinion the information financial statements are free from material prepared under the accounting policies given in the directors report is consistent mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or set out therein.
with the parent Company financial other irregularity or error.
The information given in the opinion we also evaluated the overall We have reported separately on the directors report includes that specific adequacy of the presentation of information group financial statements of Mothercare information presented elsewhere in the in the parent Company financial statements.
plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 annual report that is cross referenced and on the information in the directors Opinion from the business review section of the remuneration report that is described as In our opinion: directors report.
the parent Company financial statements In addition, we report to you if, in our This report is made solely to the Companys give a true and fair view, in accordance opinion, the Company has not kept proper members, as a body, in accordance with with United Kingdom Generally Accepted accounting records, if we have not received Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Accounting Practice, of the state of the all the information and explanations we Our audit work has been undertaken so that Companys affairs as at 28 March 2009: require for our audit, or if information we might state to the Companys members specified by law regarding directors the parent Company financial statements those matters we are required to state to remuneration and other transactions is have been properly prepared in them in an auditors report and for no other not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by and law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We read the other information contained to anyone other than the Company and the in the annual report as described in the the information given in the directors Companys members as a body, for our contents section and consider whether it is report is consistent with the financial audit work, for this report, or for the opinions consistent with the audited parent Company statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Respective responsibilities of directors aware of any apparent misstatements or and auditors material inconsistencies with the parent The directors responsibilities for preparing Company financial statements.
Our the annual report and the parent Company responsibilities do not extend to any further financial statements in accordance with Deloitte LLP information outside the annual report.
applicable law and United Kingdom Chartered Accountants and Registered Accounting Standards United Kingdom Basis of audit opinion Auditors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice We conducted our audit in accordance London, UK are set out in the statement of directors with International Standards on Auditing 20 May 2009 responsibilities.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Our responsibility is to audit the parent examination, on a test basis, of evidence Company financial statements in relevant to the amounts and disclosures accordance with relevant legal and in the parent Company financial statements.
regulatory requirements and International It also includes an assessment of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
81 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements
