Financial Statements Shareholder Information Mouchel Group plc ShareGift Registered in England and Wales If you hold only a few shares and feel that it would be uneconomical Company number: 95369 or not worthwhile to sell them, you could consider giving them to charity.
ShareGift is a free service for shareholders wishing to give Auditors small holdings of shares to charitable causes.
There are no capital  LLP gains tax implications on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible 1 Embankment Place to obtain income tax relief.
London WC2N 6RH Further information can be obtained at www.
org or from Financial Advisors and Joint Brokers our Registrars, Equiniti.
RBS Hoare Govett 250 Bishopsgate Duplicate accounts London EC2M 4AA If you receive two or more copies of the Annual Report and Accounts and or multiple cheques for each dividend payment, Joint Brokers it means that you have more than one shareholder account.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 20 Moorgate To receive just one Annual Report and Accounts and one London EC2R 6DA cheque for each dividend payment, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2651 and ask for your accounts to be amalgamated.
Lawyers Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Individual Savings Accounts ISAs 65 Fleet Street Single Company ISAs both Maxi and Mini for Mouchel are London EC4Y 1HS available from Equiniti.
Further information and brochures may be obtained by calling 0870 600 3970.
Financial PR Finsbury Financial calendar Tenter House Ex-dividend date 21 October 2009 45 Moorfields Record date 23 October 2009 London EC2Y 9AE Final dividend payment date 18 December 2009 Registrars Unsolicited investment advice Equiniti Be wary if you receive unsolicited phone calls regarding your Aspect House Mouchel shares.
While some communications may be genuine, Spencer Road others may be an example of a boiler room fraud specifically Lancing designed to elicit monies from you by convincing you to buy West Sussex BN99 6DA overpriced, untradable or non-existent shares.
Group Company Secretary and Registered Office To reduce the potential risk of fraud happening to you, please Amanda Massie consider the following: Mouchel Export House If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered Cawsey Way in the UK.
Woking, Surrey Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place.
GU21 6QX Keep all correspondence from the Registrars which contains your shareholder reference number in a safe place.
Destroy E-communications correspondence by shredding.
As an alternative to receiving documents through the post, Mouchel If you change your address inform the Registrars.
If you receive offers shareholders the option to receive communications from the a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and Company electronically.
have not recently moved house, please contact them immediately.
You may be the victim of identity theft.
com and follow the instructions Know when the dividends are paid.
Consider having your on screen.
dividend paid directly into your bank to reduce the risk of cheques being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank If you require assistance with Shareview, please contact our account, inform the Registrar of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters the Registrar sends you about this.
Group Financial Statements 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 98 Mouchel Group plc Notes Notes 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 99 Mouchel Group plc Notes Notes 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 100 Mouchel Group plc Mouchel is a consulting and business services group that improves the day-to-day lives of millions of people by providing many of the design, management and operational skills needed to maintain our essential infrastructure and services.
Our aims are to deliver better quality public services: to improve the way in which public infrastructure is planned, designed, constructed and operated: to play a part in creating the sort of communities in which people want to live: and to make a positive and sustainable difference through what we do.
Overview We go the extra mile and more to do 01 Highlights the right thing for our clients, lead the 02 Mouchel at a glance 03 Chairmans Statement way in our markets, keep our promises Performance to our people and make a fair return for 06 Business Review our investors.
Governance 36 Board of Directors 39 Directors Report 42 Corporate Governance Report 46 Remuneration Report Financial Statements 52 Consolidated Income Statement 53 Group and Company Balance Sheets 54 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 55 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Designed and produced by The College www.
com 56 Company Statement of Recognised Income Illustrations by Patrick Morgan and Expense The paper used in this Report is Cocoon Offset, comprising of 100% FSC 57 Independent Auditors Report recycled fibres sourced entirely from post consumer waste.
58 Notes to the Financial Statements Printed in the UK by Empress Litho using vegetable based inks which have lower VOC Volatile Organic Compounds emissions, are derived from renewable 97 Five-year Financial Summary sources and less hazardous than oil-based inks.
The printer is ISO 14001 98 Shareholder Information accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
Under the framework of ISO 14001 a structured approach is taken by the company to measure, improve and audit their environmental status on an ongoing basis.
FSC ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
The Report is available on our website: www.
com If you have finished reading the Report and no longer wish to retain it please pass it to interested readers, return it to Mouchel or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Company number: 95369 Introduction 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Mouchel Group plc Mouchel Group plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts www.
