Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc.
In addition we report to you if, in our Opinion We have audited the parent company opinion, the company has not kept In our opinion: financial statements of N Brown Group plc proper accounting records, if we have for the period ended 28 February 2009 not received all the information and the parent company financial statements which comprise the balance sheet and explanations we require for our audit, give a true and fair view, in accordance the related notes 1 to 10.
These parent or if information specified by law with United Kingdom Generally Accepted company financial statements have been regarding directors remuneration Accounting Practice, of the state of the prepared under the accounting policies and other transactions is not disclosed.
companys affairs as at 28 February 2009: set out therein.
the parent company financial statements We read the other information contained have been properly prepared in We have reported separately on the group in the annual report as described in the accordance with the Companies Act financial statements of N Brown Group plc contents section and consider whether 1985: and for the period ended 28 February 2009 it is consistent with the audited parent the information given in the directors and on the information in the remuneration company financial statements.
We report is consistent with the parent report that is described as having been consider the implications for our report company financial statements.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies This report is made solely to the companys with the parent company financial Deloitte LLP members, as a body, in accordance with statements.
Our responsibilities do not Chartered Accountants and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. extend to any further information outside Registered Auditors Our audit work has been undertaken so the annual report.
Manchester that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required Basis of audit opinion 12 May 2009 to state to them in an auditors report and We conducted our audit in accordance for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent with International Standards on Auditing permitted by law, we do not accept or UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing assume responsibility to anyone other than Practices Board.
An audit includes the company and the companys members examination, on a test basis, of evidence as a body, for our audit work, for this relevant to the amounts and disclosures report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of directors significant estimates and judgments made and auditors by the directors in the preparation of the The directors responsibilities for preparing parent company financial statements, the Annual Report and the parent company and of whether the accounting policies financial statements in accordance with are appropriate to the companys applicable law and United Kingdom circumstances, consistently applied Accounting Standards United Kingdom and adequately disclosed.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors We planned and performed our audit Responsibilities.
so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Our responsibility is to audit the parent necessary in order to provide us with company financial statements in sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with relevant legal and assurance that the parent company regulatory requirements and International financial statements are free from material Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming We report to you our opinion as to whether our opinion we also evaluated the the parent company financial statements overall adequacy of the presentation give a true and fair view and whether the of information in the parent company parent company financial statements have financial statements.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
72 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
