Glossary Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council Consumer Price Index CPI Corporate Responsibility CR The Company National Express Group PLC DfT Department for Transport Employee Benefit Trust EBT Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT EBITDA Earnings Before Interest and Tax and also before depreciation and amortisation.
It is calculated by taking normalised profit from operations and adding depreciation, fixed asset grant amortisation, normalised profit on disposal of non-current assets and share-based payments.
EPS Earnings Per Share the profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding those held by the Employee Benefit Trust and shares held in treasury which are treated as cancelled.
European Union EU Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR Gearing ratio For debt financing purposes is calculated as net debt, adjusted to reflect any cash which is restricted in use, divided by EBITDA.
The Company and its subsidiaries The Group IAS International Accounting Standards IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Key Performance Indicator KPI LCR London and Continental Railway Ltd LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is the increase in net debt arising on the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Net capital expenditure less proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
It excludes capital expenditure arising from UK Rail franchise entry and exits and discontinued operations, which are included in these headings.
Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents cash overnight deposits, other short term deposits, and other debt receivables offset by borrowings loan notes, bank loans and finance lease obligations and other debt payable.
Net interest expense is finance costs less finance income.
National Express East Anglia NXEA National Express East Coast NXEC Normalised diluted Earnings per share, excluding the profit or loss on sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the earnings per share disposal of non current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional terms.
Normalised profit Profit before tax, goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items.
For the purposes of Directors Remuneration 138 National Express Group PLC are defined as the statutory result before the following, as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of Normalised results businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the disposal of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items.
is intended to be the cash flow equivalent to normalised operating profit.
Operating cash flow is defined Operating cash flow as the statutory cash flow including the following, as appropriate: cash generated from operations and proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment, and less the following, as appropriate: finance lease additions, purchase of property, plant and equipment, purchase of intangible assets, payments to associates, payments in relation to exceptional items, UK Rail franchise entry and exit cash flows and discontinued operations cash flows.
In this Annual Report and Accounts the Operating and Financial Review OFR is divided into a number of sections: the Chairmans Review, Key Performance Indicators, the Divisional Reviews, the Performance and Financial Review and Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Revolving Credit Facility RCF RPS Railway Pension Scheme r SPAD Signal Passed at Dange Transport for London TfL Train Operating Company TOC TSR Total Shareholder Return the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP National Express Group PLC 139
