Notes to the Consolidated Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Corporate information The consolidated accounts of National Express Group PLC and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 25 February 2010.
National Express Group PLC is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activities of the Group are described in the OFR that accompanies these accounts.
2 Accounting policies Statement of compliance These accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC as adopted by the European Union EU, and with those parts of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Information except in extremely rare circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly its accounts.
On this basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits and has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 34, including the impact on the Groups reported financial performance and position of adopting the accounting treatment as required by IAS 1.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the recognition of derivative financial instruments, available for sale investments and accounting for pensions detailed below.
As noted above, the Group has taken the extremely rare decision to depart from the requirement of IAS 19 Employee Benefits so as to present fairly its financial performance, position and cash flows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
The details of this departure and impact on the Groups accounts are set out in note 34.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 is set out below.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets including goodwill and measurement of defined benefit pension obligations.
The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The Group determines on an annual basis whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and choice of a suitable discount rate see note 14.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return on assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate see note 34.
Key accounting judgements which may impact future financial performance are described in the Performance and Financial Review.
The consolidated accounts are presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand Pounds 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
National Express Group PLC 61 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of National Express Group PLC and all its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Adjustments are made to bring any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist into line with the Groups accounting policies.
On acquisition of a business, the purchase method of accounting is adopted, and the Group income statement includes the results of subsidiaries and businesses purchased during the year from the date control is assumed.
The purchase consideration is allocated to assets and liabilities on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
On the sale of a business, the Group income statement includes the results of that business to the date of disposal.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent Company shareholders and is presented separately from parent shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted the following amendments and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2009.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements.
The new standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity will include only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income which presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group has opted to present two linked statements.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset, removing the option to immediately expense those borrowing costs.
The amendment had no impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
These amendments were issued in February 2008.
The revisions provide a limited scope exception for puttable instruments to be classified as equity if they fulfil a number of specified features.
The amendments to the standards had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group has not issued such instruments.
IFRS 1 Amendment First-time adoption of IFRSs and IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The amendments to IFRS 1 allows an entity to determine the cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates in its opening IFRS financial statements in accordance with IAS 27 or using a deemed cost.
The amendment to IAS 27 requires all dividends from a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate to be recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements.
The new requirements did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only and that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
Improvements to IFRSs: in May 2008 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to remove inconsistencies and clarify wording.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The IFRIC had no impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset and how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
The European Union endorsed IFRIC 14 in December 2008 and therefore the Group adopted IFRIC 14 from 1 January 2009 as permitted by the special transitional provisions introduced by the EU.
IFRIC 14 had no impact on the consolidated financial statements.
62 National Express Group PLC 2 Accounting policies continued Changes in accounting policies continued IFRIC 15 Agreement for the Construction of Real Estate.
IFRIC 15 clarifies when and how revenue and related expenses from the sale of a real estate unit should be recognised if an agreement between a developer and a buyer is reached before the construction of the real estate is completed.
IFRIC 15 did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements because the Group does not conduct such activity.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
IFRIC 16 provides guidance on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment.
As such it provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge of a net investment and how an entity should determine the related amount of foreign currency gain or loss.
IFRIC 16 did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers.
IFRIC 18 clarifies the requirements for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services such as a supply of electricity, gas or water.
IFRIC 18 did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements because the Group does not conduct such activities.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties to share control of other entities which represent joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
The Group balance sheet includes the appropriate share of these joint ventures net assets or liabilities and the income statement includes the appropriate share of their results after tax.
Accounts of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups accounts to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled entities.
The Group ceases to use the equity method from the date it no longer has joint control over the entity.
Interests in associates Companies, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, in which the Group has an investment representing not less than 20% of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence are treated as associates.
The consolidated accounts include the appropriate share of these associates results and net assets based on their latest accounts under the equity method.
Income statement presentation The income statement has been presented in a columnar format to enable users of the financial statements to view the normalised results of the Group.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results before the following as appropriate: profit or loss on the sale of businesses, exceptional profit or loss on the sale of non-current assets and charges for goodwill impairment, amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items and tax relief on qualifying exceptional items and intangibles.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, due to their nature and infrequency require separate identification on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of the financial performance in the year, in comparison to prior years.
National Express Group PLC 63 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Rendering of services Revenue comprises income from road passenger transport, train passenger services, airport operations and related activities in the UK, North America and Europe.
Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of rebates and sales tax.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customers travel or services provided under contractual arrangements as a proportion of total services to be provided.
UK Trains revenue includes amounts attributed to the train operating companies TOCs, based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, franchise agreement receipts from the Department for Transport Rail Division DfT Rail and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue.
Franchise agreement payments to DfT Rail are recognised in operating costs.
UK Coach revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales.
UK Bus and European Coach & Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities, which is recognised as the services are provided.
For all the divisions noted above, the relevant share of season ticket or travelcard income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travelcard.
North American Bus revenue from school boards and similar contracts is recognised as the services are provided.
Rental income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance income Revenue is recognised using the effective interest method.
Government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are included in liabilities as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Other grants are credited to the income statement as the related expenditure is expensed.
Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business and geographical segments provides services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of the other business segments.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations the distinct business segments align directly with geographical segments which are operating in separate economic environments.
The Groups segments comprise: UK Bus: UK Coach: UK Rail: North American Bus: European Coach & Bus: and Central functions.
These segments are described in more detail in the OFR accompanying these accounts.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, are capitalised in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment.
Finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The capital element of future obligations under hire purchase contracts and finance leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet.
The interest element of rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives received under operating leases and initial direct costs in negotiating the lease are amortised to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
All material arrangements and transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed to check whether they contain elements that meet the accounting definition of a lease, although they may not follow the legal form of a lease.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred except where they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
64 National Express Group PLC 2 Accounting policies continued Current tax and deferred tax Current tax is provided on taxable profits earned according to the local tax rates applicable where the profits are earned.
Income taxes are recognised in the income statement unless they relate to an item accounted for in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the tax is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the current tax are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full in respect of all material temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, apart from the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill: where an asset or liability is recognised in a transaction that is not a business combination and that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately that meet the recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets, are capitalised at cost and when acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life assets are amortised on a straight-line basis and indefinite life assets are not amortised.
The amortisation expense is taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
The existing finite life intangible assets have a residual value of nil and are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Customer contracts over the life of the contract between 1 and 33 years Right to operate TOC franchises over the life of the franchise between 1 and 7 years Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and the useful lives of finite life intangible assets are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Finite life assets are reviewed for impairment where indicators of impairment exist.
The Groups indefinite life intangible assets include customer relationships and goodwill.
Customer relationship intangible assets are recognised only on contracts where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
Software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in respect of training are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to the income statement over its estimated useful life seven years.
The carrying value of intangibles is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
National Express Group PLC 65 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Goodwill IFRS 3 Business Combinations, has been applied to the accounting for business combinations from 1 January 2004.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at historic cost less any accumulated impairment.
If an acquisition gives rise to an excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost previously referred to as negative goodwill, this is credited immediately to the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill is not amortised.
All goodwill is subject to an annual test of impairment and an impairment charge recognised as required.
Fair value accounting adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments based on provisional estimates are amended within one year of the acquisition if required, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, in order to refine adjustments to reflect further evidence gained post acquisition.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and all or part of that unit is disposed of, the associated goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the disposal of the operation.
Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1 the Group elected to deem the fair value of certain revalued assets to be equivalent to cost.
Land and buildings comprise mainly vehicle depots and garages, and offices.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years Long leasehold property improvements 15 to 40 years Public service vehicles 8 to 15 years Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 to 15 years Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on the derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Impairment of non-financial assets All non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, except for indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill which are reviewed annually.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Except for goodwill impairments, a review is made at each reporting date of any previous impairment losses to assess whether they no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and any previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to assess the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased, subject to a limit of the assets net book value had no previous impairment loss been recognised.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Future depreciation or amortisation is then adjusted to allocate the assets revised carrying amount over its remaining useful economic life.
Impairments to goodwill cannot be reversed.
Financial instruments The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
66 National Express Group PLC 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the income statement within finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The Groups investments in entities that are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
After initial recognition these assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the previously reported cumulative gain or loss is included in the income statement.
Where there is no active market for the Groups investments, fair value is determined using valuation techniques including recent commercial transactions and discounted cash flow analyses.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, assets are carried at cost or amortised cost as appropriate.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for availablefor-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency forward exchange contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency, fuel price and interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently remeasured to fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The fair value of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate and fuel price swaps is calculated by reference to market exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices at the period end.
The Groups fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are recycled through the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency forward currency contracts are used to hedge the Groups net investment in foreign currency denominated operations and to the extent they are designated and effective as net investment hedges are matched in equity against foreign exchange exposure in the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, gains or losses are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a FIFO basis, after making due allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs associated with securing new rail franchises are expensed as incurred up to the point when a franchise is awarded.
From this point in time, they are recognised as an asset and are expensed to the income statement over the life of the franchise.
Costs associated with the commencement of all new contracts other than rail franchises are expensed as incurred.
National Express Group PLC 67 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
Doubtful debts are provided for when collection of the full amount is no longer probable, whilst bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as defined for the cash flow statement comprise cash in hand, cash held at bank with immediate access, other short-term investments and bank deposits with maturities of three months or less from the date of inception and bank overdrafts.
In the consolidated balance sheet cash includes cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts that have no legal right of set-off against cash and cash equivalents are included within borrowings in current liabilities.
Trade and other payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost being the net fair value of the consideration received plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial asset or liability.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Insurance The Groups policy is to self-insure high frequency claims within the businesses.
To provide protection above these types of losses the Group purchases insurance cover from a selection of proven and financially strong insurers.
The insurance provision is based on estimated exposures at the year end principally for claims arising in the UK and North America prior to the year end date, subject to the overall stop loss within the Groups insurance arrangements.
The majority of provisions will be utilised within six years, and the provision has been discounted to take account of the expected timing of future cash settlements.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and defined contribution nature.
Full details are provided in note 34 including the departure from IAS 19 required for the Groups RPS obligations as outlined in the Statement of Compliance.
The balance sheet position in respect of defined benefit schemes comprises the net value for each scheme of the present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
The trustees complete a full actuarial valuation triennially, separately for each plan, but the obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated future cash outflows discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity equivalent to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are recognised in staff pension costs within operating costs in the income statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The finance elements of the pension cost, comprising the expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on pension scheme liabilities, are also included in operating costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Our TOCs participate in the RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK Rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the employee.
A liability is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability represents the deficit that the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
This represents a departure from IAS 19 so as to present fairly the Groups financial performance, position and cash flow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
The charges in respect of defined contribution schemes are recognised when they are due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions into a defined contribution scheme if the fund has insufficient assets to pay all employees benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
68 National Express Group PLC 2 Accounting policies continued Share-based payment The Group awards equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market service and performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total amount expensed is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a pre-tax discount rate.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Contingent liabilities are obligations that arise from past events that are dependent on future events.
They are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where the expected future outflow is not probable.
Share capital, share premium and dividends Where either the Company or employee share trusts purchase the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any transaction costs, is deducted from total shareholders equity as Own shares until they are cancelled or reissued.
Any consideration subsequently received on sale or re-issue is included in shareholders equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements on the date when dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale and it either represents a separate major line of business or geographical area: is part of a plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area: or was an acquired subsidiary intended for resale.
The resulting profit or loss from discontinued operations is reported separately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
Foreign currencies The trading results of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling, the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of the parent, using average rates of exchange for the year as a reasonable approximation to actual exchange rates at the dates of transactions.
The balance sheets of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end and exchange differences arising are taken directly to the translation reserve in equity.
On disposal of a foreign currency denominated subsidiary, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in the translation reserve since 1 January 2004 under the transitional rules of IFRS 1 relating to that entity is recognised in the income statement.
All other translation differences are taken to the income statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings and forward foreign currency contracts which are used to provide a hedge against the Group net investments in foreign enterprises.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in the income statement.
National Express Group PLC 69 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2 Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards, interpretations and amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard was issued in January 2008 and requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will they give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary and the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The Group will apply this revised standard from 1 January 2010 and does not anticipate any impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective for business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations.
However, it introduces a number of changes that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
The Group will apply the revised IFRS 3 for all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how an entity should account for distributions other than cash non-cash assets to owners.
The Group will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010 and does not anticipate it will have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, as the Group currently has no plan to distribute non-cash assets to owners.
Improvements to IFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 : in April 2009 the International Accounting Standards Board issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to remove inconsistencies and clarify wording.
The Group will apply the improvements from 1 January 2010 and is currently evaluating the impact.
IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based Payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The Group will apply this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 January 2010 and is currently evaluating its impact.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010 : this amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
The Group will apply this revised standard from 1 January 2011 and does not anticipate any impact on the financial statements.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective retrospectively, from the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 : this IFRIC clarifies the accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of its debt with the result that the liability is extinguished through the debtor issuing its own equity instruments to the creditor.
The Group will apply this IFRIC from 1 January 2010 and does not anticipate any impact on the financial statements.
IAS 24 Amendment Related party disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 : the amendment simplifies the disclosure for government-related entities and clarifies the definition of a related party.
The Group will apply this revised standard form 1 January 2011 and is currently evaluating the impact.
IFRIC 14 Amendment IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011 and will apply from the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented : the amendment deals with voluntary pension prepayments where there is a minimum funding requirement and the recognition of a surplus.
The Group will apply this amendment from 1 January 2011 and does not anticipate any impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : the standard deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets but has yet to be endorsed by the EU.
70 National Express Group PLC 3 Exchange rates The most significant exchange rates to UK Sterling for the Group are as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Average rate US dollar 1.62 1.56 1.46 1.85 Canadian dollar 1.70 1.78 1.78 1.96 Euro 1.13 1.12 1.05 1.26 If the results for the year to 31 December 2008 had been retranslated at the average exchange rates for the year to 31 December 2009, North America would have achieved normalised operating profit of 38.5m on revenue of 435.7m, compared to normalised operating profit of 32.5m on revenue of 372.5m as reported, and Europe would have achieved a normalised operating profit of 93.6m on revenue of 542.7m, compared to normalised operating profit of 83.3m on revenue of 483.1m as reported.
4 Revenue 2009 2008 m m Rendering of services 2,699.9 2,755.2 Rental income 11.2 11.8 Revenue 2,711.1 2,767.0 Finance income 9.6 17.4 Total revenue from continuing operations 2,720.7 2,784.4 During the year, franchise agreement receipts from DfT Rail amounted to 1.3m 2008: 24.0m in UK Rail.
5 Segmental analysis IFRS 8 has been adopted in the year.
This had no impact on our reported segments.
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the public transport services they provide and the geographical market they operate in.
Commentary on the segments is included in the OFR.
Analysis by class and geography of business External Inter-segment Segment External Inter-segment Segment revenue sales revenue revenue sales revenue 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m UK Bus 293.4 0.5 293.9 340.0 1.0 341.0 UK Coach 235.9 7.0 242.9 238.9 5.8 244.7 UK Rail 1,190.5 1,190.5 1,332.5 1,332.5 Inter-segment sales elimination 7.5 7.5 6.8 6.8 UK operations 1,719.8 1,719.8 1,911.4 1,911.4 North American Bus 444.5 444.5 372.5 372.5 European Coach & Bus 546.8 546.8 483.1 483.1 Revenue from continuing operations 2,711.1 2,711.1 2,767.0 2,767.0 Discontinued operations note 11 5.1 5.1 Total revenue 2,711.1 2,711.1 2,772.1 2,772.1 Inter-segment sales represent rail replacement services provided to UK Rail by UK Bus and UK Coach.
Inter-segment trading is undertaken on standard arms length commercial terms.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the origin and destination of revenue is the same.
No single external customer amounts to 10% or more of the total revenue.
National Express Group PLC 71 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 5 Segmental analysis continued Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued Goodwill Goodwill impairment, impairment, intangible intangible amortisation amortisation Normalised and Normalised and operating exceptional Segment Segment operating exceptional Segment Segment profit items result result profit items result result 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m m m UK Bus 20.8 1.7 19.1 40.0 3.5 36.5 UK Coach 34.3 2.9 31.4 27.0 2.3 24.7 UK Rail 12.0 72.2 60.2 81.3 13.2 68.1 UK operations 67.1 76.8 9.7 148.3 19.0 129.3 North American Bus 25.3 18.6 6.7 32.5 15.8 16.7 European Coach & Bus 76.5 57.8 18.7 83.3 51.3 32.0 Central functions 9.1 7.2 16.3 10.2 10.2 Result from continuing operations 159.8 160.4 0.6 253.9 86.1 167.8 Result from discontinued operations 7.3 12.8 Total result 0.6 7.3 167.8 12.8 Loss profit on disposal of non-current assets 7.4 5.1 Loss profit from operations 8.0 7.3 172.9 12.8 Share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures 12.1 Net finance costs 63.4 63.0 Loss profit before tax 83.5 7.3 109.9 12.8 Tax credit expense 22.6 0.9 23.2 0.6 Loss profit for the year 60.9 8.2 133.1 13.4 72 National Express Group PLC 5 Segmental analysis continued Intangible asset amortisation and operating exceptional items can be analysed by class and location of business as follows: Intangible Operating asset exceptional amortisation items Total 2009 2009 2009 m m m UK Bus 0.2 1.5 1.7 UK Coach 0.3 2.6 2.9 UK Rail 1.0 71.2 72.2 North American Bus 2.9 15.7 18.6 European Coach & Bus 56.0 1.8 57.8 Central functions 7.2 7.2 Total continued operations 60.4 100.0 160.4 Discontinued operations note 11 7.3 7.3 Total 60.4 92.7 153.1 Operating exceptional Intangible asset amortisation items Total 2008 2008 2008 m m m UK Bus 0.5 3.0 3.5 UK Coach 0.3 2.0 2.3 UK Rail 1.0 12.2 13.2 North American Bus 4.7 11.1 15.8 European Coach & Bus 48.7 2.6 51.3 Total continued operations 55.2 30.9 86.1 Discontinued operations note 11 3.8 3.8 Total 55.2 34.7 89.9 In the year to 31 December 2009 exceptional costs of 64.8m were incurred in relation to National Express East Coast.
This comprised an onerous contract charge of 21.4m, a 31.4m performance bond payment and a 12.0m non cash write-off related to bidding and other costs, 4.1m of exceptional costs were incurred at National Express East Anglia reflecting a change in the expected termination date of the franchise.
In addition, 6.4m for UK Integration were incurred in UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Rail.
Restructuring costs of 1.8m were incurred in Spain.
Business Transformation costs of 14.2m and restructuring costs of 1.5m were incurred in North America.
In addition, exceptional costs of 7.2m were incurred in Central functions due to bid defence and other corporate projects.
In the year to 31 December 2008 exceptional costs of 4.3m for UK Integration were incurred in UK Bus, UK Coach, UK Rail and Central functions.
Mobilisation costs of 0.1m were incurred in National Express East Coast.
Integration costs of 2.6m were incurred in Continental Auto.
Business Transformation costs of 11.1m were incurred in North America.
In addition, exceptional costs of 12.8m were incurred in the UK relating to a reorganisation announced at the end of 2008.
In 2009 non-operating exceptional loss of 7.4m comprises a 5.6m loss on disposal of Travel London, a 2.0m loss on the sale and lease-back of the Digbeth coach depot, and a 0.2m profit on disposal of concessions owned by ALSA note 19b.
In 2008 non-operating exceptional items comprise 5.1m of profit on disposal of businesses owned by ALSA note 19b.
Capital expenditure comprises property, plant and equipment additions as disclosed above and in note 15.
In 2009 software intangible assets of 5.8m 2008: 8.2m were acquired in North America and disclosed in note 14.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise the following items: Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated Unallocated assets liabilities assets liabilities 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 105.8 105.9 Other debt receivable 0.8 0.9 Current tax 3.7 56.8 4.0 32.5 Available for sale investments 7.7 9.2 Derivative financial assets liabilities 9.2 47.2 4.0 138.6 Borrowings, excluding finance leases 688.9 1,152.7 Dividend payable 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax 35.2 99.0 20.0 124.9 Total 162.4 892.5 144.0 1,449.3 74 National Express Group PLC 6 Operating costs 2009 2008 m m Materials and consumables 88.5 84.3 Staff costs including exceptional cost of 8.8m 2008: 15.3m 909.4 894.2 Depreciation Owned assets 89.7 75.6 Leased assets 18.3 20.4 Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 2.0 1.8 Operating lease charges Rolling stock: capital element 129.9 131.8 Rolling stock: non-capital element 56.8 57.3 Public service vehicles 4.7 4.6 Other 9.8 9.6 Plant and equipment 201.2 203.3 Fixed track access 143.5 304.1 Other 54.4 68.8 Land and buildings 197.9 372.9 Pre-contract bid costs: UK Trains 0.7 4.6 Foreign exchange differences including exceptional expense of 1.8m 2008: nil 1.8 2.1 Other charges including exceptional expense of 89.4m 2008: 15.6m 1,145.7 892.5 Operating costs before intangible asset amortisation 2,651.3 2,544.0 Intangible asset amortisation 60.4 55.2 Total operating costs continuing operations 2,711.7 2,599.2 The TOCs have fixed track access contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
Under the revised CP4 rail agreement which came into force in April 2009, the fixed track access charge was reduced with a commensurate increase in the franchise premium together with other Department for Transport cost increases.
This increase is contained within Other charges above.
The TOCs also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The capital element of the rolling stock lease charge is based on the purchase price, capital funded refurbishments and modifications.
The noncapital element of the lease charge includes heavy maintenance charges and charges based on mileage.
An analysis of fees paid to the Groups auditors is provided below: 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the consolidated and parent Company accounts 0.6 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.0 1.2 Tax services 0.7 0.6 Corporate finance services 1.6 Other services 0.1 3.9 2.5 Included in the above fees paid to the Groups auditors are fees for corporate finance services of 1.5m 2008: nil in relation to the Rights Issue which have been charged against the share premium account.
All other fees have been charged to the income statement.
National Express Group PLC 75 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 7 Employee benefit costs a Staff costs 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 783.0 773.8 Social security costs 100.3 92.6 Pension costs note 34 24.2 23.5 Share-based payment note 8 1.9 4.3 909.4 894.2 Included within wages and salaries are exceptional costs of 8.8m 2008: 15.3m.
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors, during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 Managerial and administrative 3,863 4,250 Operational 37,427 40,760 41,290 45,010 Included in the above costs are the following costs related to the Groups key management personnel who comprise the Directors of the parent Company.
2009 2008 m m Fees 0.6 0.4 Basic salaries 1.1 1.1 Benefits 0.5 0.4 Performance-related bonuses 0.2 0.5 Share-based payment 0.1 1.0 2.3 3.4 Information concerning Directors emoluments, shareholdings and share options is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
b Share schemes Details of options or awards outstanding as at 31 December 2009 under the Groups share schemes are as follows: Number of Number of share 1 share options options Exercise Future exercise 1 2009 2008 price periods Executive Share Option Plan 198,070 209,563 207p448p 20102014 Long Term Incentive Plan 3,464,399 1,289,747 nil 20102013 Share Matching Plan 833,220 388,264 nil 20102013 Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan 824,510 504,028 nil 20102013 WMT Long Service Option Scheme 315,285 283,126 129p604p 20102019 Sharesave Scheme 1,387,451 1,765,145 479p 20102012 Executive Deferred Bonus Plan 578,388 nil nil 2010 7,601,323 4,439,873 1 Allocations prior to 11 November 2009 and the corresponding exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in note 32. i Executive Share Option Plan The Company operates tax approved and unapproved executive share option schemes open to Group employees in senior management positions.
Options granted by this Plan have a maximum term of ten years.
The options vest after three years subject 1 to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria based on the achievement of a target growth in earnings per share.
If the performance criteria are not met when initially tested, in some instances they may be reassessed during the term of the option.
From 2005 executive share option grants have been replaced by awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan, as described in ii.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
76 National Express Group PLC 7 Employee benefit costs continued b Share schemes continued ii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2005 on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee to replace the annual award under the Executive Share Option Plan to Executive Directors and to certain senior employees.
Under the LTIP a Performance Award to acquire a specified number of free shares may be made to the employee or Director.
In addition a Matching Award may be made, as described in iii.
Performance conditions are attached to the vesting of Performance and Matching Awards based on both the achievement of target growth in earnings per share and the relative total shareholder return TSR of the Company against a comparator group of companies.
If the performance conditions are met Performance and Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
There are no cash settlement alternatives at present.
iii Share Matching Plan the Plan The Share Matching Plan was introduced in 2005 as part of the new Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements described in ii.
Under the Plan a Matching Award to acquire a specified number of shares for free may be made if the employee pledges a number of shares as investment shares which are then matched by the Company on either a 1:1 or 2:1 basis with the number of shares that could have been purchased with the pre-tax equivalent of the amount invested.
The Matching Awards vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and remain exercisable for a period of up to six months following the vesting date.
iv Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan is a discretionary scheme which forms part of the bonus arrangements for certain senior employees.
Under the scheme part of any bonus may be received in cash whilst the remainder is used to make an award of nil cost options which vest three years after the award date.
The options must be exercised within six months of vesting.
v West Midlands Travel Ltd WMT Long Service Option Scheme The WMT Long Service Option Scheme utilises a fixed amount of shares set aside for this purpose following the acquisition of WMT in 1995 and is open to all WMT employees who have been in service for more than 25 years.
The options are exercisable between three and ten years following the grant date.
vi TWM Share Incentive Plan the SIP The TWM SIP exists for the benefit of WMT employees.
At the end of the year, 889 2008:1,439 National Express Group PLC shares were held for the benefit of the Trustee.
Dividends on shares held in the SIP forfeited shares account are waived.
vii Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Scheme The National Express Group approved Sharesave Scheme enables eligible UK employees, including Executive Directors, to acquire shares in the Company through monthly savings over a three-year period, at the end of which they also receive a tax free bonus.
The savings and bonus may be used to purchase shares at a discounted option price set at the beginning of the savings contract.
The options mature three years after the grant date and may be exercised for a period of up to six months after this date.
1 Performance criteria for Executive Share Option Plan: a Options granted under the 2002 National Express Group Executive Share Option Plan Part 2 Unapproved.
b For options granted in 2002 and 2003, the performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 8% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa. Parts a and b are initially tested over years 03 with a facility to retest over years 04 and 05.
Parts c and d are not subject to retesting.
Straight-line vesting occurs between EPS levels.
c For options granted in 2004, the performance condition is as follows: a for awards up to 50% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 4% pa, b for awards between 51% of salary and up to 100% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 5% pa, c for awards between 101% of salary and up to 150% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 6% pa, d for awards between 151% of salary and up to 200% of salary: EPS growth of RPI 10% pa.
Performance is tested over years 03.
National Express Group PLC 77 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued viii Executive Deferred Benefit Plan As detailed in last years Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee considered it appropriate for bonuses awarded in respect of the 2008 calendar year to be deferred for a period of one year and will vest, subject to the terms of the award and the relevant Directors continuing employment on 10 March 2010.
Half of the award made during the year was a cash deferred bonus conditional upon the continued employment of the relevant Director.
The other half of the award was converted into deferred forfeitable ordinary shares of the Company.
Both cash deferred bonus and the deferred forfeitable ordinary shares were awarded under the terms of The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan which was adopted by the Board of the Company on 10 March 2009.
The principal terms of awards under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan are summarised below: awards under the Plan may be cash awards, conditional awards or forfeitable shares awards: awards normally vest one year from the date of grant, subject to the relevant Directors continued employment with the Company: the Committee may decide that Participants shall be entitled to receive a benefit determined by reference to the value of the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the Grant date and the date of vesting: and the awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment save in certain compassionate good leaver circumstances eg death and disability.
In the event of a variation of the share capital the Committee may make such adjustments to the awards as it considers appropriate.
8 Share-based payment The charge in respect of share-based payment transactions included in the Groups income statement for the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Expense arising from share and share option plans continuing operations 1.9 4.3 The share-based payment charge in respect of discontinued operations was nil 2008: 0.1m.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group had eight share-based payment arrangements, which are described in note 7 b.
On 27 November 2009 the Company raised proceeds of approximately 355.0m, net of issue costs of approximately 20.0m, through a Rights Issue as explained in note 32.
The number of shares allotted to employees under the Groups share schemes has been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The terms of the Groups employee share schemes were adjusted such that participants of the various plans were no better or worse off as a result of the Rights Issue.
Consequently, no additional expense was or will be recognised as a result of changes to the Groups employee share schemes.
78 National Express Group PLC 8 Share-based payment continued For the following disclosure, share options with a nil exercise price have been disclosed separately to avoid distorting the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of share options in existence during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise 2 of share price of share price 2 options p options p Options without a nil exercise price: At 1 January 2,257,834 467 600,622 416 Granted during the year 69,900 129 1,803,272 480 Lapsed during the year 423,813 491 70,219 846 Exercised during the year 3,115 500 75,841 746 1 Outstanding at 31 December 1,900,806 449 2,257,834 467 Exercisable at 31 December 398,707 386 381,982 392 Options with a nil exercise price: At 1 January 2,182,038 nil 1,773,262 nil Granted during the year 4,290,648 nil 1,132,475 nil Lapsed during the year 396,696 nil 323,727 nil Exercised during the year 375,473 nil 399,972 nil Outstanding at 31 December 5,700,517 nil 2,182,038 nil Exercisable at 31 December nil nil 3,647 nil Total outstanding at 31 December 7,601,323 4,439,872 Total exercisable at 31 December 398,707 385,629 1 Included within this balance are options over 127,324 2008: 173,929 shares for which no expense has been recognised in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 as the options were granted before 7 November 2002.
Although there has been subsequent modification to the options, no IFRS 2 charge has been recognised as the amounts are not material.
2 Movement in allocations prior to 11 November 2009 and the corresponding weighted average exercise price have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
Details of the Rights Issue are provided in note 32.
1 The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had exercise prices that were between 129p and 604p 2008 : between 207p and 636p excluding options with a nil exercise price.
The range of exercise prices for options was as follows: 1 Exercise price p 2009 2008 0300 128,668 58,768 300350 51,321 51,321 350650 1,720,817 2,147,745 1,900,806 2,257,834 1 The 2008 exercise prices have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The options have a weighted average contractual life of one year 2008: three years.
Options were exercised regularly throughout the year and the weighted average share price at exercise was 335p 2008: 891p.
National Express Group PLC 79 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 8 Share-based payment continued The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year was calculated using a stochastic model, with the following assumptions and inputs: Share options without nil exercise price Share options with nil exercise price 2009 2008 2009 2008 Risk free interest rate 2.8% 4.2%4.9% 2.0% Expected volatility 32.5% 26.8%27.2% 48.4% 25.1%32.0% Peer group volatility 49.9% 30.8% Expected option life in years 6 years 36 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 12.6% 3.4%4.0% 2.7% 3.8%7.2% Weighted average share price at grant date 248p 884p1135p 175p405p 547p972p Weighted average share price adjusted for Rights Issue 129p 459p590p 91p210p 284p505p Weighted average exercise price at grant date 248p 922p1163p nil nil Weighted average exercise price adjusted for Rights Issue 129p 479p604p nil nil Weighted average fair value of options at grant date 20p 140p211p 174p374p 166p868p Weighted average fair value of options granted adjusted for Rights Issue 10p 73p110p 91p194p 86p451p Experience to date has shown that approximately 15% 2008: 15% of options are exercised early, principally due to redundancies.
This has been incorporated into the calculation of the expected option life for the share options without nil exercise price.
Expected volatility in the table above was determined from historic volatility over the last nine years, adjusted for one-off events that were not considered to be reflective of the volatility of the share price going forward.
The expected dividend yield represents the dividends declared in the 12 months preceding the date of the grant divided by the average share price in the month preceding the date of the grant.
For share options granted during the year under the LTIP, the TSR targets have been reflected in the calculation of the fair value of the options above.
9 Net finance costs Normalised Exceptional Total Normalised Exceptional Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Bank interest payable 45.2 19.9 65.1 59.0 11.5 70.5 Finance lease interest payable 4.7 4.7 6.7 6.7 Other interest payable 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Unwind of provision discounting 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.1 Finance costs 53.1 19.9 73.0 68.9 11.5 80.4 Finance income: Bank interest receivable 9.6 9.6 17.4 17.4 Net finance costs 43.5 19.9 63.4 51.5 11.5 63.0 Of which, from financial instruments: Cash and cash equivalents 9.6 9.6 17.4 17.4 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 48.9 48.9 62.7 62.7 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 10.1 17.9 28.0 2.3 5.8 8.1 Derivatives used for hedging 1.1 5.7 6.8 Loan fee amortisation 3.6 2.0 5.6 1.6 1.6 The 2009 exceptional charge of 17.9m 2008: 11.5m relates to interest rate swaps that ceased to qualify for hedge accounting, as the interest payments under the underlying currency borrowings which the interest rate swaps were hedging were no longer expected.
The remaining 2.0m in exceptional charge relates to the residual unamortised loan fees as a result of the early repayment of the Euro loan facility in January 2010.
80 National Express Group PLC 10 Taxation a Analysis of taxation charge credit in the year 2009 2008 m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax 1.1 19.0 Overseas taxation 9.6 10.5 Current income tax charge 10.7 29.5 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 12.5 4.8 Total current income tax 23.2 34.3 Deferred taxation note 27 : Origination and reversal of temporary differences continuing operations 37.0 58.5 Adjustments with respect to prior years UK and overseas 9.7 1.6 Deferred tax credit 46.7 56.9 Total tax credit 23.5 22.6 The tax credit in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax credit on continuing operations 22.6 23.2 Income tax credit charge on discontinued operations 0.9 0.6 23.5 22.6 The tax credit on continuing operations is disclosed as follows: Tax charge on profit before intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 23.0 52.3 Tax credit on intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items 45.6 75.5 22.6 23.2 b Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity 2009 2008 m m Current taxation: Credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.9 16.1 1.9 16.1 Deferred taxation: Deferred tax credit charge on share-based payment 0.2 1.6 Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains 5.4 7.0 Deferred tax credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.5 Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges 23.0 24.8 17.4 31.7 National Express Group PLC 81 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 10 Taxation continued c Reconciliation of the total tax charge 2009 2008 m m Loss profit from continuing operations before income tax 83.5 109.9 Profit loss from discontinued operations before income tax 7.3 12.8 Accounting loss profit before income tax 76.2 97.1 Notional credit charge at UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 21.3 27.7 Non-deductible goodwill impairment and intangible amortisation 0.3 0.9 Utilisation of unrecognised tax losses 3.8 Prior year adjustments within current and deferred tax 2.8 6.4 Spanish reinvestment relief and other tax credits 4.3 4.3 Effect of overseas tax rates 4.6 3.7 Tax on Spanish goodwill and intangibles note 10d 6.3 66.6 Effect of removal of Industrial Buildings Allowances note 10e 5.0 14.4 Non-taxable profit on sale of non-current assets 2.6 Overseas financing deductions 4.6 6.8 Non-deductible expenditure on the exit of NXEC 8.8 Non-deductible expenditure 2.7 2.0 Total tax credit reported in the income statement note 10a 23.5 22.6 On 1 April 2008 the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK was changed to 28%.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the average corporation tax rate was therefore 28.5%.
d Tax on Spanish goodwill and intangibles A reorganisation of the Spanish group structure in 2008 gave rise to future goodwill amortisation for tax purposes on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised to the extent that the realisation of the deferred tax benefit against future tax profits is probable.
e Removal of Industrial Buildings Allowances Industrial Buildings Allowances IBAs are being phased out from April 2008 to March 2011.
As a result, deferred tax has been adjusted to recognise the reduction in deductibility in future years.
f Temporary differences associated with Group investments No deferred tax 2008: nil is recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as the Group has determined that these undistributed profits will not be distributed in the near future.
As a result of changes to tax legislation in the year, overseas dividends received on or after 1 July 2009 are expected to be exempt from UK corporation tax, but may be subject to withholding tax.
There are no temporary differences 2008: 86.9m associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised but for which a tax liability may arise.
g Unrecognised tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit against future taxable profits is probable.
UK and overseas deferred tax assets that the Group has not recognised in the accounts amount to 27.4m 2008: 52.2m, which arise in tax jurisdictions where the Group does not expect to generate sufficient suitable future profits.
In addition, there are capital losses of 30.9m 2008: 34.2m which have not been recognised, recoverability of which is dependent on capital gains arising.
A deferred tax asset of 35.2m has been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences carried forward in the UK as the Group expects there to be sufficient taxable profits in that jurisdiction against which the assets could be utilised.
h Deferred tax included in the income statement 2009 2008 m m Accelerated capital allowances 0.5 19.7 Other short-term temporary differences 5.1 79.4 Recognition utilisation of losses 42.1 2.8 46.7 56.9 Details on the balance sheet position of deferred tax are included in note 27.
82 National Express Group PLC 11 Discontinued operations On 24 October 2008, the Group announced that it planned to exit the Dot2Dot business.
On 9 January 2009, the Group completed the sale of the Dot2Dot business and it was classified as a discontinued operation for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Further costs were incurred in 2009 in relation to the closure.
The 2009 results include a charge to the income statement in respect of the discontinued operations of Dot2Dot of 2.4m 2008: 9.7m.
In addition, a 10.6m credit was recognised after costs in relation to a settlement of outstanding claims from the exit of the Australian operations.
The 2009 cash flows from discontinued operations include a net inflow of 11.4m 2008: nil in relation to the Australia settlement, an outflow of 3.0m 2008: outflow 10.8m in relation to Dot2Dot and an outflow of 2.9m 2008: outflow 6.1m for North America wage order 9 settlements.
The results of the Groups discontinued operations in 2009 are presented below together with the comparative data for 2008 and arise from Australia, Dot2Dot and North America, together with the respective taxation charges: Total Australia Dot2Dot North America Public Transit restated 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Revenue 5.1 5.1 Operating costs, before goodwill impairment, intangible amortisation and exceptional items 13.4 13.4 Normalised operating loss 8.3 8.3 Normalised loss before tax 8.3 8.3 Tax credit on normalised loss 2.8 2.8 Normalised loss from discontinued operations 5.5 5.5 Goodwill impairment 0.7 0.7 Exceptional items 10.3 3.0 3.8 7.3 3.8 10.3 3.0 4.5 7.3 4.5 Tax on exceptional items 0.3 0.6 0.3 3.7 0.9 3.4 10.6 2.4 4.2 3.7 8.2 7.9 Profit loss from discontinued operations 10.6 2.4 9.7 3.7 8.2 13.4 Profit loss per share Basic from discontinued operations 2.7p 4.6p Diluted from discontinued operations 2.7p 4.5p Net cash outflow from: Operating activities 10.2 10.2 Investing activities 11.4 3.0 0.6 2.9 6.1 5.5 6.7 The Group acquired the entire share capital of Hotelink Limited in March 2007, and subsequently renamed the business National Express Dot2Dot Limited.
The exceptional items of 3.0m 2008: 3.8m before tax reflect the charge the Group has incurred in order to complete the disposal of the business.
Assets in disposal group classified as held for sale of nil 2008: 0.7m represent trade and other receivables.
Liabilities directly associated with disposal group assets classified as held for sale of nil 2008: 2.2m consist of provisions 2.1m and trade payables 0.1m.
National Express Group PLC 83 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 12 Dividends paid and proposed 2009 2008 m m Declared and paid during the year Ordinary final dividend for 2008 paid of 10.00p per share 2007: 26.40p per share 15.2 40.2 Ordinary interim dividend for 2009 nil per share 2008: 12.72p per share 19.4 15.2 59.6 Proposed for approval not recognised as a liability at 31 December Ordinary final dividend for 2009 nil per share 2008: 10.00p per share 15.2 13 Earnings per share 2009 2008 Basic loss earnings per share continuing operations 20.3p 45.0p Basic earnings loss per share discontinued operations 2.7p 4.6p Basic loss earnings per share total 17.6p 40.4p Normalised basic earnings per share 30.5p 48.9p Diluted loss earnings per share continuing operations 20.3p 44.7p Diluted earnings loss per share discontinued operations 2.7p 4.6p Diluted loss earnings per share total 17.6p 40.1p Normalised diluted earnings per share 30.4p 48.6p Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the loss earnings attributable to equity shareholders of 53.5 m 2008: 118.8m by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by employee share ownership trusts and those held as treasury shares which are both treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The reconciliation of basic and diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares is as follows: i 2009 2008 Basic weighted average shares 303,385,680 293,870,521 Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 732,384 2,073,568 Diluted weighted average shares 304,118,064 295,944,089 i Restated to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
The normalised basic and normalised diluted earnings per share have been calculated in addition to the basic and diluted earnings per shares required by IAS 33 since, in the opinion of the Directors, they reflect the underlying performance of the business operations more appropriately.
84 National Express Group PLC 13 Earnings per share continued The reconciliation of the earnings and earnings per share to their normalised equivalent is as follows: i 2009 2008 Basic EPS Diluted EPS Basic EPS Diluted EPS m p p m p p Loss profit attributable to equity shareholders 53.5 17.6 17.6 118.8 40.4 40.1 Profit loss from discontinued operations 8.2 2.7 2.7 13.4 4.6 4.6 Loss profit from continuing operations attributable to equity shareholders 61.7 20.3 20.3 132.2 45.0 44.7 Intangible asset amortisation 60.4 19.9 19.9 55.2 18.8 18.7 Exceptional items 100.0 33.0 32.9 30.9 10.5 10.4 Profit loss on disposal of non-current assets 7.4 2.4 2.4 5.1 1.7 1.7 Share of associates and joint ventures 12.0 4.0 4.0 Exceptional finance cost 19.9 6.5 6.5 11.5 3.9 3.9 Tax relief on goodwill and exceptional items 45.6 15.0 15.0 75.5 25.7 25.5 Normalised profit from continuing operations 92.4 30.5 30.4 149.2 50.8 50.5 Normalised loss from discontinued operations 5.5 1.9 1.9 Normalised profit attributable to equity shareholders 92.4 30.5 30.4 143.7 48.9 48.6 i.
Restated to reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
National Express Group PLC 85 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 14 Intangible assets continued Customer Finite Contractual Indefinite contracts Rail franchise Software life assets relationships Goodwill life assets Total m m m m m m m m Cost: At 1 January 2008 356.5 9.9 366.4 42.0 952.6 994.6 1,361.0 Additions through business combinations 7.9 7.9 4.8 8.7 13.5 21.4 Additions internally generated 8.2 8.2 8.2 Reclassification from tangible fixed assets 2.3 2.3 2.3 Impairment 0.7 0.7 0.7 Foreign exchange 107.2 2.6 109.8 10.8 245.2 256.0 365.8 At 31 December 2008 471.6 9.9 13.1 494.6 57.6 1,205.8 1,263.4 1,758.0 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2008 63.7 3.6 67.3 86.8 86.8 154.1 Charge for year 54.1 1.1 55.2 55.2 Foreign exchange 29.1 29.1 29.1 At 31 December 2008 146.9 4.7 151.6 86.8 86.8 238.4 Net book value: At 31 December 2008 324.7 5.2 13.1 343.0 57.6 1,119.0 1,176.6 1,519.6 At 1 January 2008 292.8 6.3 299.1 42.0 865.8 907.8 1,206.9 The annual impairment charge in 2008 of 0.7m related to the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Dot2Dot and reduced the net book value of the goodwill to nil.
Indefinite life intangible assets and goodwill have been allocated to individual cash-generating units for annual impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of indefinite life intangible assets by cash-generating unit is as follows: 2009 2008 Contractual 2009 Contractual 2008 relationships Goodwill Total relationships Goodwill Total m m m m m m UK Bus 13.2 13.2 UK Coach 13.2 13.2 13.2 13.2 North American Bus 37.4 262.2 299.6 37.8 279.3 317.1 European Coach & Bus 18.4 754.2 772.6 19.8 813.3 833.1 55.8 1,029.6 1,085.4 57.6 1,119.0 1,176.6 The useful economic lives of contractual relationships in North America and Spain are deemed to be indefinite where historical experience has shown that these contracts are consistently renewed.
The customer contract and rail franchise intangible assets are amortised over the finite duration of the contract or franchise as appropriate.
All amortisation charges in the year have been charged to operating costs.
The recoverable amount of indefinite life intangible assets has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a two year period.
Key assumptions including growth rates and operating margins are based on historical experience, detailed budget plans as well as managements assessment of current market and economic conditions.
Growth has then been extrapolated forward from the end of the forecasts.
86 National Express Group PLC 14 Intangible assets continued The assumptions used for the cash-generating units, are as follows: Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows Discount rate applied to beyond two year period of cash flow projections management plan 2009 2008 2009 2008 UK Bus 12.5% 2.0% UK Coach 10.1% 12.5% 2.0% 2.0% North American Bus 11.7% 12.5% 2.0% 2.0% European Coach & Bus 7.5% 9.0% 2.0% 2.0% The discount rates represent the pre-tax risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital appropriate for the cash flow generated.
In the current year the weighted average cost of capital has been impacted by a change in the Groups capital structure and a decline in the cost of debt.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the assumptions over operating profit margin, discount rates and revenue growth rates.
The value in use of the North American division exceeds its carrying amount by 52.7m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 90 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 100 basis points or a reduction in revenue growth rates of 90 basis points.
The continued non-impairment of North America is dependent upon delivering the expected margin recovery in future years.
The value in use of the Spain division exceeds its carrying amount by 478m.
Sensitivity analysis has been completed on each key assumption in isolation, and this indicates that the value in use of the division will be equal to its carrying amount following a reduction in operating profit margin of 580 basis points, an increase in the discount rate of 270 basis points or a reduction in revenue growth rates of 480 basis points.
It is believed that any reasonably possible movement on assumptions will not lead to an impairment of goodwill allocated to UK Coach.
The Directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements are analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Land and buildings cost 1.8 1.9 depreciation 0.1 0.1 Net land and buildings 1.7 1.8 Public service vehicles cost 151.3 265.5 depreciation 41.4 85.9 Net public service vehicles 109.9 179.6 Plant and equipment cost 1.5 1.8 depreciation 1.5 1.5 Net plant and equipment 0.3 Total net book value 111.6 181.7 Finance leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
88 National Express Group PLC 16 Subsidiaries The companies listed below include all those which principally affect the result and net assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Return to Companies House.
The principal country of operation in respect of the companies below is the country in which they are incorporated.
National Express Group PLC is the beneficial owner of all the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiaries, of the companies.
The Groups train passenger services in the UK are operated through franchises awarded by DfT Rail, as delegated by the UK Government.
Incorporated in England and Wales National Express Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services in Great Britain Eurolines UK Limited Administration and marketing of express coach services to Europe Airlinks Airport Services Limited Operation of coach services National Express Rail Replacement Limited Operation of coach services The Kings Ferry Limited Operation of coach services West Midlands Travel Limited Operation of bus services Travel London Limited Operation of bus services disposed of 9 June 2009 Travel London West Limited Operation of bus services disposed of 9 June 2009 Travel London Middlesex Limited Operation of bus services ceased operating on 9 June 2009 c2c Rail Limited Operation of train passenger services Central Trains Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Gatwick Express Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 22 June 2008 London Eastern Railway Limited trading as National Express East Anglia Operation of train passenger services Maintrain Limited Provision of train maintenance services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Midland Main Line Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 National Express Trains Limited Holding company for train operating companies NXEC Trains Limited trading as National Express East Coast Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 13 November 2009 Silverlink Train Services Limited Operation of train passenger services ceased operating on 10 November 2007 Shares held by the Company.
All other shares held by subsidiaries.
These businesses ceased operating train passenger services or maintenance services on the dates noted above.
Incorporated in Scotland Tayside Public Transport Co Limited trading as Travel Dundee Operation of bus services Incorporated in the USA Durham School Services LP Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Canada Stock Transportation Limited Operation of school bus services Incorporated in Spain Dabliu Consulting SLU Holding company for operating companies Tury Express SA Holding company for operating companies General Tecnica Industrial SLU Holding company for operating companies The main holding companies of the ALSA Group.
National Express Group PLC 89 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 17 Financial assets 2009 2008 m m Available for sale investments Unlisted ordinary shares 7.7 9.2 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 1.5 Derivative financial instruments Fuel price swaps 3.3 Financial assets included in non-current assets 11.0 10.7 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 1.5 Derivative financial instruments Fuel price swaps 5.6 1.0 Derivative financial instruments Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.3 Financial assets included in current assets 5.9 2.5 Further information on the Groups use of fuel price swaps, interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts is included in note 31.
Available for sale investments 2009 2008 m m Cost or valuation: At 1 January 10.0 8.0 Additions 0.3 Disposals 1.8 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.8 2.1 At 31 December 7.7 10.0 Accumulated impairment: At 1 January 0.8 0.8 Disposals 0.8 At 31 December 0.8 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 7.7 9.2 At 1 January 9.2 7.2 The principal available for sale investments are as follows: 2009 2008 Proportion held Proportion held Name Country of registration Class of share % % Bosnjak Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Ordinary shares 86 57 London & Continental Railways LCR England and Wales Ordinary shares 21 Prepayment Cards Limited PCL England and Wales Ordinary shares 23.5 23.5 Metros Ligeros fide Madrid, S. A. MLM Spain Ordinary shares 15 15 Various investments within ALSA and Continental Auto Spain Ordinary shares 116 416 Additions during the year relate to investments held by National Bus Company Pty Ltd which went into voluntary administration.
During the year 1.1m of the investment has been repaid and a further 0.3m remains to be paid which is held as an available for sale investment.
The Group does not have significant influence or control of these investments as the company involved is in administration.
During the year ALSA and Continental Auto disposed of 1.0m of investments.
National Express Group PLC also disposed of 100% of its investment in LCR for nil profit or loss.
The cost of the investment was 0.8m which was fully provided for and being carried at nil value.
90 National Express Group PLC 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method Investments accounted for using the equity method are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Joint ventures 2.0 2.2 Associates 4.7 5.7 Total investments accounted for under the equity method 6.7 7.9 The Groups share of post tax results from associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Share of joint ventures profit 0.1 Share of associates loss 0.1 0.1 0.1 Exceptional charge for associate onerous contract provision 12.0 Total share of results from associates and joint ventures 12.1 a Investments in joint ventures The Groups interests in joint ventures are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration Activity % Ibero-Eurosur S. L. Spain Holding company of Deutsche Touring 20 The financial information of this joint venture is summarised below: Ibero 2009 2008 Share of joint ventures balance sheet m m Non-current assets 3.8 4.2 Current assets 0.1 0.3 Share of gross assets 3.9 4.5 Non-current liabilities 1.6 2.0 Current liabilities 0.3 0.3 Share of gross liabilities 1.9 2.3 Share of net assets 2.0 2.2 Ibero 2009 2008 Share of joint ventures revenue and results m m Revenue 0.2 0.3 Profit 0.1 The carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures matches the Groups share of the net assets.
National Express Group PLC 91 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 18 Investments accounted for using the equity method continued b Investments in associates The Groups interests in associates are as follows: Proportion held Name Country of registration % Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited England and Wales 40 Spain associates Spain 2050 Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited ICRRL is contracted to manage the operations of Eurostar UK until 2010.
In 2006 and 2009, onerous contract provisions were recognised in relation to the Groups obligation to fund the losses of ICRRL note 26.
As a result, the Group has ceased to recognise the share of results of ICRRL.
Spains associates are generally involved in the operation of coach and bus services, management of bus stations and similar operations.
The associates financial information is summarised below: Held by Spain 2009 2008 Share of associates balance sheets m m Non-current assets 5.1 6.1 Current assets 7.3 8.7 Share of gross assets 12.4 14.8 Non-current liabilities 2.9 3.7 Current liabilities 4.8 5.4 Share of gross liabilities 7.7 9.1 Share of net assets 4.7 5.7 The Groups net investment in associates is 4.7m 2008: 5.7m which comprises associates held by Spain only.
Revenue Loss 2009 2008 2009 2008 Share of associates revenue and results m m m m Spain associates 20.2 18.2 0.1 0.1 Total normalised associates results 20.2 18.2 0.1 0.1 Exceptional ICRRL charge 12.0 Total associates results 20.2 18.2 12.1 0.1 An additional onerous contract provision was recognised in the year in relation to the Groups obligation for the proposed early termination of the ICRRL contract with Eurostar.
This has resulted in a total income statement charge of 12.0m included in exceptional items.
92 National Express Group PLC 19 Business combinations a Acquisitions 2009 Acquisitions There were no acquisitions in the Group in 2009.
2008 Acquisitions Transportes Colectivos SA On 21 November 2008 the Group acquired the remaining 75% share capital of Transportes Colectivos SA TCSA, a coach company based in Spain, which operates regional services in the Basque Country.
Consideration of 21.4m was satisfied by cash, and in addition the Group had already paid 5.1m in 2006 for the initial investment in 25% of the share capital.
Fair value Fair value Book value adjustments total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m Intangible assets 6.2 6.2 Property, plant and equipment 6.7 0.2 6.5 Inventories 0.7 0.3 0.4 Trade and other receivables 6.5 6.5 Current tax 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 22.0 22.0 Trade and other payables 10.7 0.3 11.0 Provisions 5.3 4.0 1.3 Net financial liabilities 5.1 5.1 Deferred tax liability 1.9 1.9 Net assets 14.9 7.5 22.4 Goodwill on acquisition 4.1 Total consideration 26.5 Less: initial investment of the 25% made in 2006 5.1 Less: net cash acquired 22.0 Net cash inflow 0.6 The acquisition balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent: a the recognition of a customer contract acquired with TCSA 6.2m which reflects the expected renewal of this contract in Spain.
The customer contract is amortised over the life of the contract: b a decrease in the value of passenger transportation fleet 0.2m and spare parts inventories 0.3m : c an increase in payables in relation to accrued holiday pay: d an adjustment in provisions to reflect only liabilities existing as at the acquisition date, such as agreed redundancy payments 1.3m : and e the deferred tax liability associated with the contract acquired.
From the date of acquisition, TCSA contributed 0.4m to the operating profit of the Group in 2008.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2008, the operating profit for the Group in 2008 would have been 168.2m and revenue from continuing operations in 2008 would have been 2,808.5m.
Included in the goodwill recognised above are certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and assembled workforce and increased scale in our Spanish regional operations.
Management believes that goodwill represents value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted.
National Express Group PLC 93 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 19 Business combinations continued a Acquisitions continued Other 2008 acquisitions During the year ended 31 December 2008, in Canada, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators Alouette North Bay Alouette Bus Lines Inc on 7 January 2008.
In the United States, the Group acquired the entire share capital of school bus operators A&E A&E Transport Services Inc on 28 February 2008.
Book value Fair value Fair value Alouette A&E Total adjustments Total Net assets at date of acquisition: m m m m m Intangible assets 0.1 0.1 6.4 6.5 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 1.6 1.7 0.1 1.8 Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.2 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 0.3 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax liability 1.8 1.8 Net assets acquired 0.2 3.1 3.3 4.7 8.0 Goodwill on acquisition 4.6 Total consideration 12.6 Net consideration 12.5 Acquisition costs 0.1 Total consideration 12.6 Less: net cash acquired 0.6 Net cash outflow 12.0 The acquisition balance sheets have been adjusted to reflect fair value adjustments.
The adjustments represent: a the elimination of the book value of Alouettes intangible assets 0.1m, the recognition of customer contracts acquired with A&E 1.7m, and customer relationships acquired with Allouette 4.2m and A&E 0.6m.
The customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contracts, whilst customer relationships are not amortised, but are tested for impairment on an annual basis: b a 0.1m increase in the value of property, plant and equipment at Alouette following a review of the vehicle fleet: and c the deferred tax liability associated on the customer contracts acquired with A&E 0.5m, and the customer relationships acquired with Alouette 0.2m and A&E 1.1m.
Total consideration was 0.9m for Alouette including 0.1m acquisition costs and 11.7m for A&E.
From their respective dates of acquisition, Alouette and A&E contributed 0.3m and 1.6m respectively to operating profit of the Group in 2008.
If these combinations had taken place at the beginning of 2008 the Group operating profit in 2008 would have been 168.2m and revenue from continuing operations in 2008 would have been 2,769.4m.
This includes control over the acquired businesses and assembled workforce and increased scale in our North American school bus operations.
The majority of the value was assessed to comprise of synergy benefits expected to be achieved by merging the businesses acquired into the Groups North American operations.
b Disposals The trade and business of Travel London, the Groups London bus business was disposed of on 9 June 2009.
Cash flows arising on disposal comprised consideration of 32.0m less cash repaid and other expenses of 3.6m.
The net assets disposed of were 34.0m including 13.6m of goodwill, resulting in a loss of 5.6m.
In 2009, the Group disposed of Spanish concessions held by ALSA within the European Coach & Bus division for 0.2m.
In 2008, the Group disposed of the Portuguese transport business and one Spanish concession held by ALSA within the European Coach & Bus division.
The disposal proceeds were 8.3m comprising of 5.4m cash received in 2008, 0.9m cash received in 2009, with the balance to be received in 2010.
The net assets were 3.2m resulting in 5.1m profit on disposal.
94 National Express Group PLC 20 Non-current assets other receivables 2009 2008 m m Prepayments and accrued income 2.5 2.8 Other receivables 1.5 4.2 4.0 7.0 21 Inventories 2009 2008 m m Raw materials and consumables 16.4 24.4 The movement on the provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory is immaterial.
22 Current assets trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 166.1 227.7 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 12.1 11.8 Trade receivables net 154.0 215.9 Amounts due from associates and joint ventures note 36 1.3 1.4 Amounts owed by other related parties note 36 1.5 1.2 Other receivables 21.2 45.0 Prepayments and accrued income 48.7 68.8 226.7 332.3 An analysis of the provision for impairment of receivables is provided below: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 11.8 6.5 Provided in the year 0.3 5.3 At 31 December 12.1 11.8 Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is low as a large proportion of the Groups trading is with public or quasi-public organisations.
23 Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 58.3 52.0 Overnight deposits 12.0 3.5 Other short-term deposits 35.5 50.4 Cash and cash equivalents 105.8 105.9 Cash and cash equivalents include restricted balances of 16.8m 2008: 49.7m held by the UK Train subsidiaries.
Under the terms of the train franchise agreements, cash can only be distributed by the TOCs either up to the amount of retained profits or the amount determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The restricted cash represents that which is not available for distribution or the amount required to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the balance sheet date.
Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the carrying value.
National Express Group PLC 95 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 24 Current liabilities trade and other payables 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 187.3 228.6 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures note 36 1.5 1.2 Amounts owed to other related parties note 36 1.0 0.7 Other tax and social security payable 35.4 28.8 Accruals and deferred income 154.4 185.0 Other payables 87.4 113.0 467.0 557.3 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of two months.
Included within other payables are deferred fixed asset grants from government or other public bodies of 2.9m 2008: 3.4m.
25 Other non-current liabilities 2009 2008 m m Other liabilities 21.6 20.7 Other non-current liabilities comprise deferred fixed asset grants of 4.6m 2008: 6.0m and other liabilities of 17.0m 2008: 14.7m.
26 Provisions Eurostar onerous Insurance contract a b c claims provision Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2009 43.3 21.5 18.5 83.3 Charged to income statement 24.8 12.0 64.1 100.9 Utilised in the year 24.5 8.6 67.2 100.3 Amortisation of discount 0.9 2.0 2.9 Exchange difference 1.6 0.6 2.2 At 31 December 2009 42.9 26.9 14.8 84.6 Current 31 December 2009 21.0 26.9 14.7 62.6 Non-current 31 December 2009 21.9 0.1 22.0 42.9 26.9 14.8 84.6 Current 31 December 2008 17.5 8.6 18.2 44.3 Non-current 31 December 2008 25.8 12.9 0.3 39.0 43.3 21.5 18.5 83.3 a The insurance claims provision arises from estimated exposures at the year end, the majority of which will be utilised in the next five years, and comprises provisions for existing claims arising in the UK and North America.
b A provision was recognised in 2006 for the Groups onerous contract for Eurostar with ICRRL.
8.6m 2008: 8.4m was paid to ICRRL during the year.
The provision will be utilised over the period to the end of the Groups contract in 2010.
An additional provision was recognised during the year for the Companys liability for the proposed early termination of the ICRRL contract with Eurostar.
c The following items are included within other provisions: i.
A provision was established at 30 June 2009 as a result of the termination of the East Coast franchise.
The final amounts were paid in November being for 20.7m of onerous contracts and 31.4m of performance bond liabilities.
The amounts were recorded within exceptional items.
A provision was recognised in 2007 for the expected liabilities in relation to the discontinued North American Public Transit business.
These liabilities arose as the Group is a party to an industry-wide litigation in respect of working time regulations.
The provision recognised is the expected value of the settlement, but the total amount of the provisions recognised by the Group is not disclosed as this may prejudice the Groups position in this matter.
The whole provision is expected to be paid in 2010. iii.
A provision was recognised in the year in the UK for redundancy costs as a result of a significant restructuring exercise undertaken at the end of 2009.
The provision is expected to be fully paid in 2010. iv.
The majority of other remaining provisions are expected to be paid within 2010.
When the effect is material, the provisions are discounted to their net present value.
96 National Express Group PLC 27 Deferred tax 2009 2008 m m Net deferred tax liability brought forward 104.9 158.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3.7 Disposal of subsidiaries 2.0 Credit to income statement 46.7 56.9 Charge credit to other comprehensive income or equity 17.4 31.7 Exchange differences 9.8 31.7 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 63.8 104.9 Based on current capital investment plans, the Group expects to be able to claim capital allowances in excess of depreciation in future years at a similar level to the current year.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities within the same jurisdiction have been offset.
2009 2008 m m Deferred tax assets Accelerated tax depreciation 14.9 26.2 Losses carried forward 29.0 Other short-term temporary differences 21.1 46.2 Total 35.2 20.0 2009 2008 Deferred tax liabilities m m Accelerated tax depreciation 89.6 87.9 Losses carried forward 30.1 15.1 Other short-term temporary differences 39.5 52.1 Total 99.0 124.9 28 Financial liabilities 2009 2008 m m Non-current Bank loans 447.2 1,132.7 Finance lease obligations 57.7 81.5 Other debt payable 1.2 0.8 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 506.1 1,215.0 Fuel price swaps 3.8 28.2 Interest rate swaps 18.3 Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.4 12.8 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 11.2 59.3 Non-current financial liabilities 517.3 1,274.3 Current Loan notes 0.8 Bank loans 240.5 18.1 Finance lease obligations 17.9 52.4 Other debt payable 0.3 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 258.4 71.6 Fuel price swaps 11.5 52.0 Interest rate swaps 24.2 14.9 Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.3 12.4 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 36.0 79.3 Current financial liabilities 294.4 150.9 An analysis of interest-bearing loans and borrowings is provided in note 29.
Further information on derivative financial instruments is provided in note 31.
National Express Group PLC 97 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 29 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The effective interest rates on loans and borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2009 Effective 2008 Effective m Maturity interest rate m Maturity interest rate Sterling loan notes 0.8 On demand LIBOR 1.0% Loan notes 0.8 Sterling bank loans 17.9 20122015 LIBOR 0.2% Sterling bank loans 445.8 June 2011 LIBOR 1.5% 600.0 June 2011 LIBOR 0.5% Short-term Sterling bank loans 10.0 2009 LIBOR 0.5% Euro bank loans unhedged 2.6 20102015 EURIBOR 1.0% 8.0 20092015 EURIBOR 0.6% Euro bank loans unhedged 239.3 September 2010 EURIBOR 2.0% Euro bank loans subject to interest rate hedge 514.9 September 2010 4.9% Bank loans 687.7 1,150.8 US dollar finance leases at fixed rate 30.3 20102014 4.0% 40.3 20092012 4.0% US dollar finance leases at floating rate 26.1 November 2009 LIBOR 0.3% Euro finance leases at fixed rate 0.5 20102012 5.0% Euro finance leases at floating rate 18.0 20102016 EURIBOR 0.5% 36.9 20092016 EURIBOR 0.5% Sterling finance leases at fixed rate 26.8 20102018 5.4% 30.6 20092018 5.4% Finance leases 75.6 133.9 Euro loans 1.2 20102011 1.1 20092011 Other debt payable 1.2 1.1 Total 764.5 1,286.6 During the year, 361.0m of debt was repaid following a Rights Issue, of which 225.0m was used to repay drawings on part of the Euro bank loan facility.
Subsequent to the repayment, the Euro bank loan facility was reduced to 270.0m 239.3m.
Details of the Groups interest rate management strategy and interest rate swaps are included in notes 30 and 31.
The Group is subject to a number of covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming immediately repayable.
These covenants specify maximum net debt to EBITDA and minimum EBITDA to interest.
98 National Express Group PLC 29 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued The following table sets out the carrying amount, by maturity of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk.
1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans Finance leases 9.0 10.5 7.0 6.6 14.5 10.0 57.6 Net interest rate swaps 24.2 24.2 Other debt payable 1.2 1.2 Floating rate Cash assets 105.8 105.8 Loan notes Bank loans 240.5 446.0 0.7 0.1 0.2 0.2 687.7 Finance leases 8.9 4.7 1.6 1.0 0.8 1.0 18.0 1 year 12 years 23 years 34 years 45 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Fixed rate Bank loans 514.9 514.9 Finance leases 10.4 9.8 11.2 7.2 6.8 25.5 70.9 Net interest rate swaps 13.4 11.4 2.0 3.4 30.2 Other debt payable 0.3 0.6 0.2 1.1 Floating rate Cash assets 105.9 105.9 Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 18.1 6.3 607.6 2.4 0.7 0.8 635.9 Finance leases 42.0 10.2 5.6 2.1 1.1 2.0 63.0 National Express Group PLC 99 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors and management The Groups multinational operations and significant debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks, the most material of which are market risks relating to fuel prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and the effects of changes in liquidity risk.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of these risks on the financial performance of the Group by using financial instruments including borrowings, forward exchange contracts, fuel price and interest rate swaps.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury Committee, the responsibility for implementing the risk management policies laid down by the Board.
The Treasury Committee provides assurance to the Board that the Groups financial risk taking activity including financial risk identification and measurement is in accordance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The policies are implemented by the Group treasury department that receives regular reports from all the operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The Group treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk including the use of financial instruments.
Foreign currency The Group has major operations in the US, Canada and Spain and as a result is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks on translation of net assets and on earnings denominated in foreign currency.
These risks can have significant effects on the Groups reported results.
The Groups foreign currency exchange management policy is to minimise economic and material transactional exposures arising from currency movements against sterling.
The Group seeks to align its debt with the free cash flow generated in each currency, such that some protection is afforded to the net debt: EBITDA banking covenant within which the Group must operate.
Interest on the currency debt provides a hedge against the earnings in that currency and the translation of the debt provides a potential hedge against the translation of the Groups net assets denominated in that currency.
At the year end, the Group had currency borrowings of 270.0m and a cross-currency swap of US$85.0m.
The swap contracts remaining term runs for a period up to 1.5 years.
At the end of the year, the Groups policy is that currency borrowings should be in the range 0% to 50% 2008: 0% to 50% of the net assets denominated in that currency.
At 31 December 2009, 14% 2008: 14% of the Groups exposure to US dollar assets were hedged, nil% 2008: nil% of the exposure to Canadian dollar assets and 21% 2008: 39% of the exposure to euro assets.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in foreign currency exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
This would affect the Groups profit before tax and translation reserve.
The effect on the translation reserve represents the movement in the translated value of the foreign currency denominated loans and change in fair value of cross-currency swap contracts.
These movements would be offset by an opposite movement in the translated value of the Groups overseas net investments.
It is estimated that a 10% change in the corresponding exchange rates would result in an exchange gain or loss in the translation reserve of 26.6m.
2009 2008 Effect Effect on Effect Effect on Strengthening on profit translation on profit translation weakening before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in currency m m m m US dollar 10% 4.8 5.3 Euro 10% 21.8 46.9 Canadian dollar 10% Australian dollar 10% US dollar 10 % 4.8 5.3 Euro 10 % 21.8 46.9 Canadian dollar 10 % Australian dollar 10 % 100 National Express Group PLC 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on both interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities.
The effects of changes in interest rates could affect the Groups future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, mainly financial liabilities.
It is the Groups policy to maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and floating interest rates on borrowings in order to provide certainty as to the level of interest expense in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of interest rate fluctuations over the medium term.
Interest on the Groups floating interest rate debt is based on LIBOR or EURIBOR.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group has entered into a series of interest rate swaps that have the effect of converting floating rate debt to fixed rate debt.
The net effect of these transactions was that as at 31 December 2009 the Group was economically hedged against interest rate movements on 239.3m 2008: 525.6m of gross debt for an average of 0.6 2008: 2.5 years.
The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables in general economic activity held constant, on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The effect on profit before tax arises through movements in interest on floating rate financial instruments including interest rate swaps.
At 31 March 2009, four Euro interest rate swaps of the total notional value 550.0m were fide-designated from hedge accounting.
The Company no longer accounts for them as hedging instruments under IAS 39.
The effect of the revaluations of these swaps along with the amortisation of the Euro hedging reserve is now recognised in the income statement.
The sensitivity analysis covers all floating rate financial instruments, including the interest rate swaps.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Sterling were increased by 100bp on 31 December 2009, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation for 2009 would decrease by approximately 4.0m.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in US$ were increased by 50bp on 31 December 2009, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation for 2009 would increase by approximately 0.4m.
If the interest rates applicable to floating rate instruments denominated in Euro were increased by 75bp on 31 December 2009, it is estimated that the Groups profit before taxation for 2009 would increase by approximately 0.2m.
The analysis assumes that the amount and mix of floating rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2009 and that the change in interest rates has the following effect on profit or loss for the current year 2009.
2009 2008 Increase Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on decrease profit hedging profit hedging in basis before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December points m m m m Sterling 100 4.0 5.6 US dollars 50 0.4 0.5 Euro 75 0.2 0.2 8.2 Sterling 100 4.0 5.6 US dollars 50 0.4 0.5 Euro 75 0.2 0.2 8.2 National Express Group PLC 101 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Commodity prices The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
It is the Groups policy to hedge this exposure in order to provide certainty as to the level of costs in the short term and to reduce the year on year impact of price fluctuations over the medium term.
This is achieved by entering into fuel swaps and purchase contracts which are expected to be highly effective in mitigating price risk.
At 31 December 2009, the Group hedged approximately 97% of its 2010 expected usage, 76% of its expected usage in 2011 and 10% of its expected usage in 2012.
The table below demonstrates the effect of a reasonably possible variation in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant, on the fair value of the Groups financial instruments and accordingly on the Groups profit before tax and on the Groups hedging reserve.
The sensitivity analysis includes all fuel price swaps.
The effect on the hedging reserve arises through movements on the fair value of the Groups fuel price swaps.
For these derivative contracts the sensitivity of the net fair value to an immediate 20% increase or decrease in all prices would have been 27.9m at 31 December 2009.
The figure does not include any corresponding economic advantage or disadvantage that would arise from the natural business exposure which would be expected to offset the gain or loss on the derivatives.
2009 2008 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on Increase profit hedging profit hedging decrease before tax reserve before tax reserve As at 31 December in price m m m m Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 9.3 7.2 US dollar denominated gasoil 20% 7.3 5.6 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 11.3 3.2 Sterling denominated ULSD 20% 9.3 7.2 US dollar denominated gasoil 20% 7.3 5.6 Euro denominated ULSD 20% 11.3 3.2 Credit risk The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group is the gross carrying value of each of its financial assets.
This risk is mitigated by a number of factors.
Many of the Groups principal customers, suppliers and financial institutions with which it conducts business are public or quasi-public bodies, both national DfT Rail and Network Rail in the UK and local school boards in North America, municipal authorities in Spain and Morocco, Transport for London and Centro in the UK.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to pose a significant credit risk.
Outside of this the Group does not consider it has significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The counterparties for financial assets other than investments and trade receivables are subject to pre-approval by the Treasury Committee and such approval is limited to financial institutions with an A rating or better.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed annually by the Treasury Committee.
The only elements of the Groups financial assets which are not impaired but are past due are certain trade receivable items.
An ageing of the assets which are past due is included in the table below.
The Group does not renegotiate the terms of trade receivables.
Accordingly, there were no renegotiated balances outstanding at 31 December 2009.
In terms of trade receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as at the year-end reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
Of which: not impaired and past due in the following periods Of which: neither impaired Carrying Less than Between Between amount nor past due 30 days 30 and 60 days 61 and 90 days Over 90 days m m m m m m Trade receivables at 31 December 2009 154.0 67.0 44.1 10.8 4.4 27.7 Trade receivables at 31 December 2008 215.9 129.7 26.3 23.0 14.5 22.4 102 National Express Group PLC 30 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity risk is managed centrally by the Group treasury department with operating units forecasting their cash and currency requirements.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long term and short term committed facilities that are designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds to meet current and forecast financial requirements as cost effectively as possible.
In managing the liquidity risk, the Group has access to a range of funding at competitive rates through capital markets and banks.
The treasury department located at the head office coordinates relationships with banks, borrowing requirements, foreign exchange requirements and cash management.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 1,066.7m 2008: 1,363.8m of which 318.6m 2008: 143.8m were undrawn.
During the year, 361.0m of debt was repaid following a rights issue, of which 225.0m was used to repay drawings on part of the Euro bank loan facility.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2009 based on the contractual undiscounted payments.
The table includes cash outflows associated with the derivative hedging instruments.
Their amounts reflect the maturity profile of the fair value liability where the instrument will be settled net, and the gross settlement amount where the pay leg of a derivative will be settled separately to the receive leg, as in the case of cross-currency swap hedging the net investments in US operations.
On demand Less than 1 year 15 years 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m Loan notes Bank loans 248.7 451.7 0.2 700.6 Finance lease obligations 20.6 52.5 12.0 85.1 Other debt payable 1.2 1.2 Net Interest rate swaps 28.3 28.3 Fuel price swaps 11.9 6.0 17.9 Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.2 7.4 7.6 Trade and other payables 367.1 17.0 384.1 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 26.9 26.9 703.7 535.8 12.2 1,251.7 On demand Less than 1 year 15 years 5 years Total m m m m m Year ended 31 December 2008 Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 52.3 1,182.0 0.8 1,235.1 Finance lease obligations 57.8 63.3 29.3 150.4 Other debt payable 0.3 0.8 1.1 Net Interest rate swaps 8.9 11.5 20.4 Fuel price swaps 49.7 32.1 81.8 Foreign exchange forward contracts 15.9 14.9 30.8 Trade and other payables 439.2 14.7 453.9 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 8.6 15.7 24.3 0.8 632.7 1,335.0 30.1 1,998.6 Capital risk management The Group seeks to adopt efficient financing structures that enable it to use its balance sheet strength to achieve the Groups objectives without putting shareholder value at risk.
The Groups capital structure comprises its equity refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and its net debt refer to note 37.
During 2009, the Group completed a Rights Issue and raised proceeds of approximately 355.0m net of issue costs further information is included in note 32.
Following the Rights Issue, part of the Euro facility was repaid, leaving 270.0m 239.3m outstanding at 31 December 2009 further information is included in note 29.
The reduction in the Groups net debt from 1,179.8m to 657.9m is explained in the OFR.
Information about the covenants in relation to the Groups borrowing facilities is included in note 29.
Subsequent to 31 December 2009, the Group issued a seven-year 350.0m Sterling bond and repaid the remaining 270.0m of the Euro bridge facility further information is included in note 38.
National Express Group PLC 103 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables Fair values The fair value of all derivatives like foreign exchange forward contracts, fuel price swaps and interest rate swaps has been determined by the third party financial institution with which the Group holds the instrument, in line with the market value of similar financial instruments.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as at fair value through profit or loss and are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
For cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss or when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities approximates the carrying value, except for available-for-sale investments where there is no active market.
In the absence of any other reliable external information, these assets are carried at cost or amortised cost.
There are only three types of financial instruments, which the Group holds at fair value, ie cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and fuel price swaps.
The fair value measurement of these instruments is categorised within the Level 2 ie the fair values are derived based on observable market inputs, in accordance with IFRS 7.
AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through Classification of financial instruments receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Assets Investments 7.7 7.7 Fuel price swaps 8.9 8.9 Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.3 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 105.8 105.8 Trade and other receivables 209.3 209.3 315.1 7.7 8.9 0.3 332.0 Liabilities Bank loans 687.7 687.7 Finance lease obligations 75.6 75.6 Other debt payable 1.2 1.2 Interest rate swaps 24.2 24.2 Fuel price swaps 14.4 0.9 15.3 Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.5 0.2 7.7 Trade and other payables 384.1 384.1 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 26.9 26.9 21.9 1,175.5 25.3 1,222.7 104 National Express Group PLC 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fair values continued AvailableDerivatives Liabilities At fair value Loans and for-sale used for measured at through receivables assets hedging amortised cost profit or loss Classification of financial instruments Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Assets Investments 9.2 9.2 Interest rate swaps 3.0 3.0 Fuel price swaps 1.0 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 105.9 105.9 Trade and other receivables 308.0 308.0 413.9 9.2 1.0 3.0 427.1 Liabilities Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 1,150.8 1,150.8 Finance lease obligations 133.9 133.9 Other debt payable 1.1 1.1 Interest rate swaps 17.5 15.7 33.2 Fuel price swaps 80.2 80.2 Foreign exchange forward contracts 25.2 25.2 Trade and other payables 453.9 453.9 ICRRL onerous contract obligation 21.5 21.5 122.9 1,762.0 15.7 1,900.6 The financial liabilities measured at amortised cost include bank loans, finance lease obligations and other debt payable.
After initial fair value recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The carrying amount of the financial liabilities is shown in note 29.
Other receivables and other payables are to be settled in cash in the currency they are held in.
In accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for.
No embedded derivatives have been identified.
The Group assesses at each year-end reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
In the financial year 2009 there was no objective evidence that would have necessitated the impairment of loans and receivables or available-for-sale assets except the provision for impairment of receivables see note 22.
Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage exposures to fluctuations in market risks, such as foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
In line with the IAS 39 the Group classifies hedges as a fair value hedges used to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability, b cash flow hedges used to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction, and c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In 2009 the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating fuel price risks in highly probable forecast purchase transactions and for hedging net investments in US dollars and Euro foreign operations.
Additionally, until 31 March 2009 ie when the designation as a hedge was revoked the Group applied cash flow hedge accounting for hedging floating interest rate risk on underlying floating rate borrowings.
National Express Group PLC 105 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Hedging activities continued The movement on derivative financial instruments is detailed below: Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability at 1 January 2009 30.2 25.2 79.2 134.6 Cash settlements 15.0 15.1 56.7 86.8 Revaluation through income statement 0.1 0.1 Revaluation through other comprehensive income 11.5 0.1 11.8 0.2 Exchange differences 2.4 2.8 4.3 9.5 Net liability at 31 December 2009 24.2 7.4 6.4 38.0 In 2008, fuel swap put options were sold.
The gain of 3.6m was recognised in the hedging reserve and has been transferred to the income statement in 2009.
Foreign exchange Interest rate forward swaps contracts Fuel swaps Total m m m m Net liability asset at 1 January 2008 5.4 14.5 12.1 7.8 Cash settlements 1.1 33.0 16.0 18.1 Revaluation through income statement 6.0 6.0 Revaluation through other comprehensive income 19.0 0.2 63.8 83.0 Exchange differences 0.9 43.5 11.5 55.9 Net liability at 31 December 2008 30.2 25.2 79.2 134.6 The movement on the hedging reserve is detailed below: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 58.4 5.4 Transferred to income statement operating costs 54.0 16.0 Transferred to income statement net finance costs 28.0 6.8 Revaluation 0.2 79.4 Tax on revaluation 0.1 22.2 Tax on transfers to income statement 22.9 2.6 At 31 December 0.8 58.4 Hedge of net investments in foreign entities Included in bank loans are borrowings of 270.0m 239.3m 2008: 540.0m 516.1m which are designated as a hedge of net investments in the foreign currency denominated net assets of the Group and are being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risk.
At 31 December 2009, the hedge had a carrying amount of 239.3m 2008: 516.1m and the gain on the hedge recognised in reserves in 2009 was 36.8m 2008: loss 179.8m on 540.0m 516.1m.
The Euros have been borrowed to match the underlying net assets of the Spanish subsidiary with no ineffectiveness reflected in the income statement.
In addition the Group has synthetic debt in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts in place of US$85.0m 52.6m 2008: US$85.0m 56.7m to complete the post-tax hedge of the net investment in foreign entities.
The US dollars have been sold forward for Sterling purchased and match the underlying net investment with no ineffectiveness reflected in the income statement.
The US$85.0m hedge extends to 31 May 2011.
At 31 December 2009, there was 5.5m positive movement in the revaluation of the swap spot element only 2008: loss 12.9m.
The portion of the gain or loss on the foreign exchange forward contracts that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in translation reserves and, to this extent, offsets any gains or losses on translation of the net investments in the subsidiaries.
106 National Express Group PLC 31 Financial instruments including cash, trade receivables and payables continued Fuel price hedges The Group has a number of fuel price swaps in place to hedge the different types of fuel used in each division.
Ultra low sulphur diesel used in the UK Bus, UK Coach and European Coach & Bus divisions and gasoil as used in the UK Trains division are hedged by swaps in the same type of fuel.
Diesel used in the North American division is hedged by heating oil swaps.
The timing of the swap cash flows will match the underlying fuel purchases from 2010 through to 2012.
There was no significant element of hedge ineffectiveness requiring the recognition in the income statement.
During the year 54.0m of fair value losses 2008: 16.0m have been transferred from the hedging reserve, of which 51.0m 2008: 8.5m credit was recognised in the hedging reserve at 1 January 2009 and the remainder was generated during the year due to the movement in market fuel prices.
Fuel price swaps can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Fair value Fair value Volume Volume m m million litres million litres Hedge fuel price swaps Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 1.0 12.8 62.2 111.2 US dollar denominated fuel swaps North American Bus 0.6 10.6 66.1 66.1 Euro denominated fuel swaps European Coach & Bus 5.7 27.6 88.0 94.1 Fuel price swaps included in current liabilities assets 5.3 51.0 216.3 271.4 Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Bus, UK Coach and UK Trains 0.4 2.8 65.9 32.4 US dollar denominated fuel swaps North American Bus 2.0 16.5 39.7 45.4 Euro denominated fuel swaps European Coach & Bus 2.3 8.9 80.0 48.0 Fuel price swaps included in non-current liabilities assets 0.1 28.2 185.6 125.8 Total hedge fuel price swaps 5.4 79.2 401.9 397.2 Non-hedge fuel price swaps Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Trains current 0.6 5.5 Sterling denominated fuel swaps UK Trains non-current 0.4 5.5 Total non-hedge fuel price swaps 1.0 11.0 Total fuel price swaps 6.4 79.2 412.9 397.2 Interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss At 31 December 2009 the Group did not seek cash flow hedge accounting for any of its interest rate swaps.
At 31 March 2009, the last four Euro interest rate swaps of the total notional value 550.0m were fide-designated for hedge accounting purposes.
The Company no longer accounts for them as hedging instruments as they ceased to be considered as effective under IAS 39 ie the floating side of hedges overcompensated for the floating interest paid on the underlying bank borrowings.
The effective part of the revaluations of these swaps at that date amounted to 25.1m and was fully transferred to the income statement by 31 December 2009.
Their revaluation gains and losses between 31 March 2009 and 31 December 2009 were recognised in the income statement this was a loss of 0.2m.
In addition, on 23 December 2009 the Group entered into three Euro denominated interest rate swaps of the total notional value 280.0m.
They were used to lock in the cash flows on the corresponding part of 550.0m Euro interest rate swaps discussed above.
It reflected the fact that by 23 December 2009 the Group repaid 270.0m of its borrowings.
At 31 December 2009 the negative movement in their fair value amounted to 0.8m and was recognised in the income statement.
All Euro interest rate swaps were subsequently settled on 14 January 2010 in line with the underlying Euro borrowing being fully repaid on 15 January 2010.
The Group continues to account for two US$100.0m denominated interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss.
These instruments were entered into in September 2000 fixed at 6.9% and 6.8545% until September 2010.
In 2009 the Group accounted for their 1.2m fair market value gain for the year in the income statement.
In April, the two US$50.0m interest rate hedges used to lock in the cash flows on US$100m of the closed out swap were sold for a net consideration of 2.4m.
With regards to the second US$100.0m swap, the underlying borrowing was exchanged into Sterling debt as at the 15 December 2008.
In July 2009 the last Euro denominated basis swaps expired.
The total loss of fair market value of 0.5m associated with these swaps was recognised in the income statement.
They were part of a series of six month basis swaps entered into by the Company in July 2008, where the Company paid six month EURIBOR less a margin and received one month EURIBOR.
These instruments were used to lock in the differential between one month and six month borrowing rates.
The Group did not apply hedge accounting for these instruments.
National Express Group PLC 107 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 32 Called-up share capital 2009 2008 m m At 31 December: Authorised: i 800,000,000 2008: 200,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 40.0 10.0 Issued called-up and fully paid: 511,726,026 2008: 154,687,284 ordinary shares of 5p each 25.6 7.7 Number Movement in ordinary shares during the year: m of shares At 1 January 2008 7.7 154,627,671 Exercise of share options 59,613 At 1 January 2009 7.7 154,687,284 ii Rights Issue 17.9 357,038,742 At 31 December 2009 25.6 511,726,026 i.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 6 May 2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 10m to 13m by the creation of 60 million ordinary shares of a nominal value of 5 pence each.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 27 November 2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 13m to 40m by the creation of 540 million ordinary shares of a nominal value of 5 pence each.
On 11 November 2009, the Company announced a Rights Issue, which was approved by shareholders on 27 November 2009, on the basis of seven new ordinary shares for every three ordinary shares held at 105 pence per share, all with a nominal value of 5 pence each.
The Company raised proceeds of approximately 355m, net of issue costs of approximately 20m.
The total number of share options exercised in the year was 378,588 2008: 475,813 of which nil 2008: 59,613 exercises were satisfied by newly issued shares and 378,588 2008: 416,200 exercises were satisfied by transferring shares from the National Express Employee Benefit Trust.
Own shares Own shares comprise treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
Treasury shares include 1,668,688 2008: 1,825,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
No additional shares have been added as treasury shares within equity for future issue under the Groups share schemes or cancellation.
No shares were cancelled during the year 2008: nil.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2009 was 3.2m 2008: 9.0m.
Own shares include 1,176,633 2008: 185,103 ordinary shares in the Company that have been purchased by the Trustees of the National Express Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
During the year, the Trust purchased 746,489 2008: 153,533 shares and 378,588 2008: 416,200 shares were used to satisfy options granted under a number of the Companys share schemes.
The Trust shares increased by 623,629 shares as a result of the Rights Issue.
The value of shares within the Trust has been recognised as an investment in treasury shares.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2009 was 2.3m 2008: 0.9m.
The dividends payable on these shares have been waived.
108 National Express Group PLC 33 Other reserves Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2009 15.4 58.4 176.7 133.7 Hedge movements, net of tax 59.2 59.2 Exchange differences, net of tax 76.8 76.8 At 31 December 2009 15.4 0.8 99.9 116.1 Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2008 15.4 5.4 9.6 30.4 Hedge movements, net of tax 63.8 63.8 Exchange differences, net of tax 167.1 167.1 At 31 December 2008 15.4 58.4 176.7 133.7 The nature and purpose of the other reserves are as follows: The merger reserve includes the premium on shares issued to satisfy the purchase of Prism Rail PLC in 2000.
The reserve is not distributable.
The hedging reserve records the movements on designated hedging items, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity on underlying hedged items.
The translation reserve records exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries offset by the movements on loans and derivatives used to hedge the net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
National Express Group PLC 109 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions The UK Bus and UK Coach divisions operate both funded defined benefit schemes and a defined contribution scheme.
The majority of employees of the UK Rail companies are members of the appropriate shared-cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of all schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
Contributions to the schemes are determined by independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Subsidiaries in North America contribute to a number of defined contribution plans.
The Group also provides certain additional unfunded post-employment benefits to employees in North America and Spain, which are disclosed in section c in the Other category.
The total pension cost for the year was 24.2m 2008: 23.5m, of which 3.9m 2008: 3.9m relates to the defined contribution schemes.
The defined benefit pension liability included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2009 2008 m m UK Bus 46.4 3.6 UK Coach 5.2 1.2 UK Rail 1.9 38.7 Other 1.4 1.5 Total 54.9 45.0 The valuations conducted for financial reporting purposes are based on the triennial actuarial valuations.
A summary of the latest triennial actuarial valuations, and assumptions made, is as follows.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Travel West Tayside Midlands 31 March 31 March 5 April 31 December Date of actuarial valuation 2008 2007 2007 2007 Actuarial method used Attained age Attained age Projected unit Projected unit Rate of investment returns per annum 7.8% 5.4%6.4% 4.7%5.5% 5.8%7.6% Increase in earnings per annum 5.2% 4.6% 4.0% 4.2% Scheme assets taken at market value 40.5m 374.0m 39.8m 355.1m Funding level 92% 93% 77% 103%109% Amounts included in the income statement, other comprehensive income and the balance sheet are calculated using the projected unit method.
The range of funding levels and scheme assets for UK Rail reflects the range of funding levels and assets in the various sections of the RPS relating to the franchises which the Group operated at 31 December 2009.
The plans do not provide medical benefits.
110 National Express Group PLC 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued a Summary of pension benefits and assumptions continued The most recent triennial valuations are then updated by independent professionally qualified actuaries for financial reporting purposes, in accordance with IAS 19.
The main actuarial assumptions underlying the IAS 19 valuations are: 2009 2008 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Rate of increase in salaries 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% 3.8% 3.8% 3.8% Rate of increase of pensions 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% Discount rate 5.75% 5.75% 5.75% 6.5% 6.3% 6.3% Inflation assumption 3.5% 3.5% 3.5% 2.8% 2.8% 2.8% Expected rates of return on scheme assets Equities 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% 8.0% Bonds 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% 6.1% 6.1% 6.1% Properties 6.3% 6.3% 6.3% 5.9% 5.9% 5.9% Other 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.3% 1.3% 1.3% Post-retirement mortality in years: Current pensioners at 65 male 19.4 21.9 19.4 21.9 Current pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 19.8 19.8 Current pensioners at 65 male others 21.5 21.5 Current pensioners at 65 female 22.2 24.8 22.2 24.8 Current pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 21.7 21.7 Current pensioners at 65 female others 22.7 22.7 Future pensioners at 65 male 20.4 23.0 20.4 23.0 Future pensioners at 65 male, pension under 8,500 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 22.2 22.2 Future pensioners at 65 male others 23.7 23.7 Future pensioners at 65 female 23.1 25.8 23.1 25.8 Future pensioners at 65 female, pension under 3,000 pa or pensionable pay under 30,000 pa 23.2 23.2 Future pensioners at 65 female others 24.2 24.2 The demographic assumptions reflect those included in the most recent triennial valuation.
For the UK Bus and UK Coach schemes improvements in mortality are in line with medium cohort tables.
For the UK Rail scheme, mortality assumptions are based on the recent experience of the scheme with an allowance for future improvements in mortality as follows: Age Year Under 85 85105 Over 105 Males and females 20082012 3.0% pa 3.0% pa tapering to 0.6% pa 0.6% pa Males 2013 onwards 1.5% pa 1.5% pa tapering to 0.3% pa 0.3% pa Females 2013 onwards 1.0% pa 1.0% pa tapering to 0.2% pa 0.2% pa The Directors regard the assumption around the discount rate to be the key assumption in the IAS 19 valuation, and the following table provides an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of a 0.1% change in the discount rate assumption.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail m m m Defined benefit pension liability at 31 December 2009 46.4 5.2 1.9 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 7.3 1.2 Current service cost for the year ended 31 December 2009 3.2 0.7 15.2 Effect of a 0.1% increase in the discount rate 0.1 0.3 Scheme assets are stated at their market values at the respective balance sheet dates.
The expected rate of return on scheme assets is determined based on market returns on each category of scheme assets.
National Express Group PLC 111 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued b Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme The majority of employees of the UK Rail companies are members of the appropriate section of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
To date, the Group has experienced eleven changes of UK Rail franchise ownership where the current owner has funded the scheme during the franchise term and the pension deficit at franchise exit has transferred to the new owner, without cash settlement.
However, although the Groups past experience has proven otherwise, our legal advisors have opined that in certain situations, the liability for the deficit on the relevant sections of the RPS could theoretically crystallise for funding by an individual TOC at the end of the franchise.
By entering into the franchise contract, the TOC becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the rules of the RPS must fund its share of the pension liability in accordance with the schedule of contributions agreed with the Scheme trustees and actuaries and for which there is no funding cap set out in the franchise contract.
To comply with IAS 19, the Group is required to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its constructive obligation that arises under the terms of each franchise agreement.
In determining the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that the Groups accounts present fairly its financial position, financial performance and cash flows, management has consulted with TOC industry peers and has concluded that the Groups constructive but not its legal RPS defined benefit obligations should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 19.
This accounting policy, which in all other respects is consistent with that set out in this note for the Groups other defined benefit schemes, means that the Groups accounts reflect that element of the deficits anticipated to be settled by the Group during the franchise term and will prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits to a new owner at franchise exit.
In calculating the Groups constructive obligations in respect of the RPS, the Group has calculated the total pension deficits in each of the RPS sections in accordance with IAS 19 and the assumptions set out above.
These deficits are reduced by a franchise adjustment which is that portion of the deficit projected to exist at the end of the franchise and which the Group will not be required to fund.
The franchise adjustment, which has been calculated by the Groups actuaries, is offset against the present value of the RPS liabilities so as to fairly present the financial performance, position and cash flows of the Groups obligations.
The franchise adjustment increased from 28.2m at 31 December 2008 to 81.7m at 31 December 2009.
The increase is caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 1.7m and net actuarial movements of 51.8m.
In the prior year, the franchise adjustment increased by 25.9m from 2.3m at 1 January 2008 to 28.2m at 31 December 2008.
The increase was caused by interest on the franchise adjustment of 0.2m, net actuarial movements of 25.2m and by 0.5m relating to franchise exits.
If the Group had accounted for its legal obligation in respect of the RPS instead of the constructive obligation, the following adjustments would have been made to the financial information: 2009 2008 m m Balance sheet Defined benefit pension deficit 81.7 28.2 Deferred tax asset 18.2 6.5 Intangible asset 2.0 2.4 Net reduction in net assets 61.5 19.3 Statement of comprehensive income Actuarial losses 51.8 25.2 Tax on actuarial gains and losses 14.5 6.4 Net decrease in actuarial gains 37.3 18.8 Income statement Interest on franchise adjustment 1.7 0.2 Curtailment gain on franchise exit 0.5 Intangible asset amortisation 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax credit 0.1 Net decrease in income 2.2 1.1 112 National Express Group PLC 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits The amounts charged to the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 are set out in the following tables.
The restriction on surplus in 2008 arose on the Travel West Midlands UK Bus scheme.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 Group income statement m m m m Amounts charged to normalised operating profit: Current service cost 3.2 0.7 15.2 19.1 Past service cost Expected return on pension scheme assets 20.4 2.8 19.5 42.7 Interest on pension liabilities 22.6 2.7 20.3 45.6 Interest on franchise adjustment 1.7 1.7 Total charge to income statement 5.4 0.6 14.3 20.3 Actual return on plan assets 51.7 6.6 42.7 101.0 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 31.3 3.8 23.2 58.3 Other actuarial gains and losses 86.6 11.3 12.5 85.4 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 9.0 9.0 Actuarial losses gains 46.3 7.5 35.7 18.1 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Group income statement m m m m m Amounts charged to normalised operating profit: Current service cost 4.8 1.2 21.0 0.5 27.5 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Expected return on pension scheme assets 26.4 3.0 28.0 57.4 Interest on pension liabilities 23.4 2.8 23.1 49.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Total charge to income statement 2.2 1.0 15.9 0.5 19.6 Actual return on plan assets 36.4 4.8 93.4 134.6 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Group statement of comprehensive income m m m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 62.8 7.8 121.4 192.0 Other actuarial gains and losses 61.7 8.7 101.1 171.5 Adjustment for unrecognised surplus 4.3 4.3 Actuarial losses gains 5.4 0.9 20.3 24.8 National Express Group PLC 113 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December are: UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 As at 31 December 2009 m m m m m Equities 183.1 25.7 234.4 443.2 Bonds 137.5 24.3 25.0 186.8 Property 74.3 25.0 99.3 Other 5.0 1.6 6.6 Fair value of scheme assets 399.9 51.6 284.4 735.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 446.3 56.8 423.7 1.4 928.2 Franchise adjustment 81.7 81.7 Defined benefit obligation 446.3 56.8 342.0 1.4 846.5 Members share of deficit 55.7 55.7 Defined benefit pension deficit 46.4 5.2 1.9 1.4 54.9 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 As at 31 December 2008 m m m m m Equities 152.3 20.8 370.9 544.0 Bonds 202.1 20.8 39.7 262.6 Property 3.1 34.1 37.2 Other 5.3 0.5 5.8 Fair value of scheme assets 362.8 42.1 444.7 849.6 Present value of scheme liabilities 357.4 43.3 554.9 1.5 957.1 Franchise adjustment 28.2 28.2 Defined benefit obligation 357.4 43.3 526.7 1.5 928.9 Restriction on surplus 9.0 9.0 Members share of deficit 43.3 43.3 Defined benefit pension deficit 3.6 1.2 38.7 1.5 45.0 The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation in the year is as stated below.
For UK Trains, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
The Groups defined benefit obligation comprises 845.1m 2008: 927.4m including the members share of the deficit arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded and 1.4m 2008: 1.5m from unfunded plans.
UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2009 357.4 43.3 526.7 1.5 928.9 Current service cost 3.2 0.7 15.2 19.1 Past service cost Franchise exit 268.1 268.1 Benefits paid 24.9 1.4 23.7 50.0 Contributions by employees 1.4 0.3 10.5 12.2 Finance charge credit 22.6 2.7 20.3 45.6 Other movements 0.1 0.1 0.2 Interest on franchise adjustment 1.7 1.7 Members share of movement on liabilities 75.3 75.3 Actuarial loss gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 86.6 11.3 12.5 85.4 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2009 446.3 56.8 342.0 1.4 846.5 114 National Express Group PLC 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Other Total m m m m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2008 412.4 48.6 653.1 1.0 1,115.1 Current service cost 4.8 1.2 21.0 0.5 27.5 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Franchise exit 25.6 25.6 Benefits paid 23.3 1.0 21.0 45.3 Contributions by employees 1.4 0.4 11.0 12.8 Finance charge 23.4 2.8 23.1 49.3 Interest on franchise adjustment 0.2 0.2 Members share of movement on liabilities 33.6 33.6 Actuarial gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 61.7 8.7 101.1 171.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2008 357.4 43.3 526.7 1.5 928.9 The movement in the fair value of scheme assets is as follows: UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2009 362.8 42.1 444.7 849.6 Expected return on plan assets 20.4 2.8 19.5 42.7 Franchise exit 268.1 268.1 Cash contributions Employer 8.9 4.1 15.4 28.4 Cash contributions Employee 1.4 0.3 10.5 12.2 Benefits paid 24.9 1.4 23.7 50.0 Membership movements 0.1 0.1 Members share of return on assets 62.9 62.9 Actuarial gain recognised in statement of comprehensive income 31.3 3.8 23.2 58.3 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2009 399.9 51.6 284.4 735.9 UK Bus UK Coach UK Rail Total m m m m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 January 2008 412.0 43.7 620.3 1,076.0 Expected return on plan assets 26.4 3.0 28.0 57.4 Franchise exit 25.6 25.6 Cash contributions Employer 9.1 3.8 16.3 29.2 Cash contributions Employee 1.4 0.4 11.0 12.8 Benefits paid 23.3 1.0 21.0 45.3 Members share of return on assets 62.9 62.9 Actuarial loss recognised in statement of comprehensive income 62.8 7.8 121.4 192.0 Fair value of scheme assets at 31 December 2008 362.8 42.1 444.7 849.6 National Express Group PLC 115 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 34 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued c Financial results for pension benefits continued The Group expects to contribute 22.1m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 History of experience gains and losses: m m m m m UK Bus Fair value of scheme assets 399.9 362.8 412.0 406.0 385.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation 446.3 357.4 412.4 421.8 423.6 Restriction on surplus 9.0 4.7 1.5 Deficit in the scheme 46.4 3.6 5.1 17.3 37.8 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 0.2 3.3 4.6 3.0 3.3 Experience adjustments arising on assets 31.3 62.8 5.2 7.5 35.3 UK Coach Fair value of scheme assets 51.6 42.1 43.7 39.9 35.7 Present value of defined benefit obligation 56.8 43.3 48.6 52.6 50.6 Deficit in the scheme 5.2 1.2 4.9 12.7 14.9 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 2.2 1.6 Experience adjustments arising on assets 3.8 7.8 0.6 2.5 UK Rail Fair value of scheme assets 284.4 444.7 620.3 743.4 796.4 Present value of defined benefit obligation 342.0 526.7 653.1 808.2 900.7 Members share of deficit 55.7 43.3 14.0 43.7 70.1 Deficit in the scheme 1.9 38.7 18.8 21.1 34.2 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities 1.1 16.9 5.3 25.5 53.8 Experience adjustments arising on assets 23.2 121.4 3.2 32.6 54.4 Other Fair value of scheme assets Present value of defined benefit obligation 1.4 1.5 1.0 1.7 1.9 Deficit in the scheme 1.4 1.5 1.0 1.7 1.9 Experience adjustments arising on liabilities The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2004 is 44.9m loss 2008: 26.8m loss.
The Directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRSs and taken directly to equity of 51.9m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before 1 January 2004.
116 National Express Group PLC 35 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments The Groups total operating lease commitments are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Land and buildings 96.4 212.7 Plant and equipment 135.5 206.3 231.9 419.0 After one year but not more than five years: Land and buildings 56.4 401.1 Plant and equipment 67.0 575.9 123.4 977.0 More than five years: Land and buildings 40.6 12.1 Plant and equipment 13.0 1.0 53.6 13.1 408.9 1,409.1 Operating lease commitments continued The majority of the Groups commitments arise in the UK Trains division.
Trains division companies have contracts with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for access to the railway infrastructure tracks, stations and depots.
They also have contracts under which rolling stock is leased.
The TOCs obligations to fulfil these commitments exist only as part of their franchise agreement.
The table below reflects the commitments up to the current franchise end dates unless an extension or new franchise agreement has been signed.
The commitments are based on charges advised by the Rail Regulator for the period starting on 1 April 2004.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under these contracts are shown below: Land and Plant and buildings equipment 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m UK Trains division commitments Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year: Fixed track access 56.7 148.9 Rolling stock 125.6 200.6 Other 24.7 49.6 1.8 1.5 81.4 198.5 127.4 202.1 After one year but not more than five years: Fixed track access 15.6 253.1 Rolling stock 34.6 563.7 Other 7.3 118.9 0.6 3.7 22.9 372.0 35.2 567.4 More than five years: Fixed track access Rolling stock Other 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 104.3 570.9 162.6 769.6 Fixed track access agreements have an average remaining life of 1.4 years 2008: 4.1 years, other land and buildings have an average duration of 1.4 years 2008: 4.0 years.
Rolling stock agreements have an average life of 1.4 years 2008: 3.6 years and other plant and equipment 1.4 years 2008: 4.2 years.
National Express Group PLC 117 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 35 Commitments and contingencies continued Outside of the UK Trains division the Group has entered into operating leases on certain properties, public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
Commitments for future minimum rental payments under cancellable operating leases are shown below: Land and buildings Public service vehicles Other 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Other divisions commitments m m m m m m Within one year 15.0 14.2 8.0 3.9 0.1 0.3 After one year but not more than five years 33.5 29.1 31.6 6.9 0.2 1.6 More than five years 40.6 11.7 13.0 0.9 89.1 55.0 52.6 11.7 0.3 1.9 The average remaining life of operating lease commitments in the other divisions is 15.6 years 2008: 5.8 years for land and buildings, 5.8 years 2008: 3.3 years for public service vehicles and 2.3 years 2008: 1.4 years for other plant and equipment.
Operating lease agreements where the Group is the lessor The Group receives rent on properties as follows: 2009 2008 m m Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases: Within one year 4.6 9.1 After one year but not more than five years 1.3 8.2 More than five years 5.9 17.3 The leases have an average unexpired duration of 1.4 years 2008: 2.5 years.
Finance lease commitments The Group has finance leases for public service vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These leases have terms of renewal but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
2009 2008 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 20.6 17.9 57.8 52.4 After one year but not more than five years 52.5 46.7 63.3 54.0 More than five years 12.0 11.0 29.3 27.5 Total minimum lease payments 85.1 75.6 150.4 133.9 Less future financing charges 9.5 16.5 Present value of minimum lease payments 75.6 75.6 133.9 133.9 Capital commitments 2009 2008 m m Contracted 17.1 42.7 The Group is committed to vehicle purchases and various land and buildings improvements.
Contingent liabilities Bonds and letters of credit In the ordinary course of business, the Group is required to issue counter-indemnities in support of its operations.
As at 31 December 2009, there were UK Train performance bonds of 25.8m 2008: 57.2m and UK Train season ticket bonds of 84.4m 2008: 86.0m.
The Group has other performance bonds which include the 17.0m 2008: 16.1m performance bond in respect of Inter-Capital and Regional Rail Limited, performance bonds in respect of businesses in the US of 76.8m 2008: 76.6m and the rest of Europe of 25.4m 2008: 24.7m.
Letters of credit have been issued to support insurance retentions of 59.8m 2008: 86.2m.
118 National Express Group PLC 36 Related party transactions Amount of transactions Amounts due from related parties Amounts due to related parties 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Associates ICRRL 8.6 8.4 Spain associates 1.9 2.5 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.2 Trade investments Spain trade investments 3.5 2.6 1.1 0.8 0.7 0.5 Property transactions Stock Transportation 1.5 0.3 Spain 4.8 3.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.2 Durham School Services 0.4 0.3 Total associates 10.5 10.9 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.2 Total other related parties 10.2 6.6 1.5 1.2 1.0 0.7 Total 20.7 17.5 2.8 2.6 2.5 1.9 Amounts due to ICRRL are included in provisions as disclosed in note 26.
A provision of 0.6m 2008: 0.6m has been booked against amounts due from Spain associates, which are presented net.
Property transactions Brian Stock was appointed as Chief Executive of the Groups North American operations in October 2004.
Stock Transportation Limited, a school bus operator in North America, was acquired in July 2002.
As part of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, the Group entered into leases for eight properties at market rents and on standard terms and conditions.
The rental payments of 0.4m 2008: 0.3m are made to Stock Properties Limited and Stock Realty Limited, of which Brian Stock is a related party.
In addition, in 2009 Stock Transportation Limited sold a property for 1.0m to Stock GP Limited, of which Brian Stock is a related party, and now rents this property from Stock Realty Limited for 0.1m in 2009.
This transaction was approved by the Board of National Express Group PLC.
A number of Spain companies have leased properties from companies related to the Cosmen family.
Jorge Cosmen is a NonExecutive Director of the Group and was appointed as Deputy Chairman in October 2008.
These leases were in place before the Groups acquisition of ALSA and are for appropriate market rates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group 2009 2008 m m Total compensation paid to key management personnel note 7 2.3 3.4 Directors interests in employee share plans are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
National Express Group PLC 119 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 37 Cash flow statement The net cash inflows from operating activities include outflows of 74.3m 2008: 27.6m from continuing operations which are related to exceptional costs.
a Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2009 2008 Total Operations m m Net cash inflow from operating activities Loss profit before tax from continuing operations 83.5 109.9 Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 7.3 12.8 Net finance costs 63.4 63.0 Loss profit on disposal of non-current assets continuing operations 7.4 5.1 Profit on disposal of non-current assets discontinued operations 7.3 Share of post tax results under the equity method 12.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment continuing operations 108.0 96.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment discontinued operations 0.3 Amortisation of leasehold property prepayment 0.1 0.1 Goodwill impairment 0.7 Intangible asset amortisation 60.4 55.2 Amortisation of fixed asset grants 2.0 1.8 Loss profit on disposal of non-current assets in operating profit 1.5 2.0 Share-based payments continuing operations 1.9 4.3 Share-based payments discontinued operations 0.1 Decrease increase in inventories 6.3 1.0 Decrease increase in receivables 116.3 0.2 Decrease in payables 58.7 69.4 Decrease in provisions 15.2 19.1 Cash generated from operations 218.0 218.2 b Analysis of changes in net debt Net debt at 31 December 2009 comprises cash and cash equivalents of 105.8m 2008: 105.9m as disclosed in note 23, other debt receivables of 0.8m 2008: 0.9m, current interest-bearing loans and borrowings of 258.4m 2008: 71.6m and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings of 506.1m 2008: 1,215.0m as disclosed in note 28.
At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2009 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2009 m m m m m m Cash 52.0 9.5 3.2 58.3 Overnight deposits 3.5 8.7 0.2 12.0 Other short term deposits 50.4 14.9 35.5 Cash and cash equivalents 105.9 3.3 3.4 105.8 Other debt receivables 0.9 0.1 0.8 Borrowings: Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 1,150.8 448.9 19.8 5.6 687.7 Finance lease obligations 133.9 50.4 7.9 75.6 Other debt payable 1.1 0.1 1.2 Total borrowings 1,286.6 500.0 27.7 5.6 764.5 Net debt 1,179.8 503.2 24.3 5.6 657.9 Short term deposits included within liquid resources relate to term deposits repayable within three months.
Changes in cash and cash equivalents arising from acquisitions and disposals in the year are disclosed separately on the face of the cash flow statement.
The 449.5m cash outflow 2008: 19.0m within bank loans, loan notes, other debt payable and other debt receivable comprises 15.1m 2008: 33.0m of payments for the maturity of foreign currency swaps and 434.4m of net loans repaid 2008: 14.0m loans advanced to the Group.
120 National Express Group PLC 37 Cash flow statement continued b Analysis of changes in net debt continued Other non-cash movements in net debt represent finance lease additions of nil 2008: 15.8m and 5.6m 2008: 1.6m amortisation of loan arrangement fees.
At At 1 January Acquisitions Exchange Other 31 December 2008 Cash flow disposals differences movements 2008 m m m m m m Cash 68.0 24.2 8.2 52.0 Overnight deposits 14.6 11.9 0.8 3.5 Other short-term deposits 74.6 24.2 50.4 Cash and cash equivalents 157.2 60.3 9.0 105.9 Other debt receivables 0.9 0.9 Borrowings: Loan notes 0.8 0.8 Bank loans 947.4 19.0 220.8 1.6 1,150.8 Finance lease obligations 119.8 32.8 5.1 26.0 15.8 133.9 Other debt payable 0.9 0.2 1.1 Total borrowings 1,068.0 50.9 5.1 247.0 17.4 1,286.6 Net debt 910.8 8.5 5.1 238.0 17.4 1,179.8 c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2009 2008 m m Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year 3.3 60.3 Cash inflow outflow from movement in other debt receivables 0.1 0.9 Cash outflow from movement in debt and finance leases 500.0 50.9 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 503.2 8.5 Change in net debt resulting from acquisitions and disposals 5.1 Change in net debt resulting from non-cash movements 18.7 255.4 Movement in net debt in the year 521.9 269.0 Opening net debt 1,179.8 910.8 Net debt 657.9 1,179.8 38 Post balance sheet events On 7 January 2010, National Express Group PLC issued a 350.0m seven year Sterling bond with a coupon of 6.25% under the 1,000,000,000 ETM programme.
The proceeds from the issue were used to repay the remaining 270.0m outstanding on the 540.0m bridge facility, which was subsequently cancelled.
The remaining proceeds were used to repay other borrowings.
The bond was issued subject to the Group obtaining two investment grade credit ratings prior to 13 January 2011.
In the event that the Group does not obtain such ratings by this date, the coupon will step up by 1.25% thereafter.
