Adoption of new accounting standards New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2008 09 recognition of some revenue.
IFRIC 13 has been adopted by the During the year ended 31 March 2009, National Grid Gas adopted the following amendments to Company with effect from 1 April 2009. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 1 revised on the Requires changes to the presentation of financial statements and and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee pronouncements IFRIC.
presentation of financial adopts revised titles for the primary statements, although companies None of these had a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
statements may continue to use the existing titles.
IAS 1 revised has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IFRIC 12 on service concession Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector IFRS 3R on business Makes a number of changes to the accounting for business arrangements operator participates in the development, financing, operation and combinations combinations, including requirements that all payments to purchase a maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for example, business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value IFRIC 14 on defined benefit Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to through income: an option to calculate goodwill based on the parents assets and minimum funding the present value of economic benefits available in the form of share of net assets only or to include goodwill related to the minority requirements refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan interest: and a requirement that all transaction costs be expensed.
plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee IFRS 3R will be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2010, subject to Benefits.
The interpretation considers when refunds or reductions in endorsement by the European Union.
future contributions should be considered available, particularly when IAS 27R on consolidated and Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests a minimum funding requirement exists.
individual financial statements to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
The revised Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Permits reclassification of financial assets in certain circumstances.
standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
IAS 27R Instruments: Recognition and will be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2010, subject to measurement and IFRS 7 endorsement by the European Union.
financial instruments: Amendment to IFRS 2 on Clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and the accounting Disclosures on reclassification share-based payments treatment of cancellations.
Vesting conditions are defined as either of financial assets.
service conditions or performance conditions.
Cancellations by employees are accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted company.
The amendment to IFRS 2 has been adopted by the National Grid Gas has yet to adopt the following standards and interpretations, but these are Company with effect from 1 April 2009. not expected to have a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
Further Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS Addresses the classification as a liability or as equity of certain information is provided in the accounting policies section of the Operating and Financial 1 on puttable financial puttable financial instruments and instruments, or components Review.
instruments and obligations thereof, which impose upon an entity an obligation to deliver a pro arising on liquidation rata share of net assets on liquidation.
The amendment to IAS 32 and IFRS 8 on operating segments Sets out the requirements for the disclosure of information about an IAS 1 have been adopted by the company from 1 April 2009. entitys operating segments and about the entitys products and Amendments to IFRS 1 FirstPermits investments to be recognised on first-time adoption of IFRS services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major time Adoption of International at cost or deemed cost fair value of previous GAAP carrying amount customers.
IFRS 8 achieves convergence with the US accounting Financial Reporting Standards and removes the requirement to recognise dividends out of prestandard, SFAS 131 Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and IAS 27 Consolidated and acquisition profits as a reduction in the cost of investment.
The and related information with minor differences.
IFRS 8 has been Separate Financial Statements amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 have been adopted by the adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009. of the cost of an investment in a Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IAS 23 revised on borrowing Removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense subsidiary, Jointly Controlled costs borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of Entity or Associate.
time to get ready for use or sale.
IAS 23 revised has been adopted by Improvements to IFRS 2008 Contains amendments to various existing standards.
The the Company with effect from 1 April 2009. amendments are effective, in most cases, from 1 January 2009, or IFRIC 13 on customer loyalty Clarifies that the sale of goods or services together with customer otherwise for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. programmes award credits for example, loyalty points or the right to free products is accounted for as a multiple-element transaction.
The consideration received from the customer is allocated between the components of New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted continued the arrangement based on their fair values, which will defer the 40 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Adoption of new accounting standards IFRIC 15 on agreements for Addresses the timing of revenue recognition for entities engaged in derivatives through profit or loss category.
The amendment will be adopted by the construction of real estate the construction of real estate for their customers.
IFRIC 15 will be the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to the European Union.
endorsement by the European Union.
Improvements to IFRS 2009 Contains amendments to various existing standards.
The IFRIC 16 on hedges of a net Clarifies that a hedged risk may be designated at any level in a group amendments will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April investment in a foreign and hedging instruments may be held by any company in a group 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
except the foreign entity being hedged, that net investment hedge accounting may not be adopted in respect of a presentational currency and that on disposal the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss are any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the cumulative translation difference on the foreign operation disposed of.
IFRIC 16 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendments to IAS 39 Prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of an financial instruments: instrument, unless cash flows relating to the separate inflation Recognition and measurement component are contractual and also prohibits the designation of a on eligible hedged items.
purchased option in its entirety as the hedge of a one-sided risk in a forecast transaction.
The amendment to IAS 39 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Clarifies the effective date of the reclassification of financial assets.
Instruments: Recognition and The amendment is effective under IFRS but has not yet been measurement: Reclassification endorsed by the European Union and has therefore not been adopted of Financial Assets: Effective by the Company.
Adoption of the amendment would not have any Date and Transition.
impact on results or assets and liabilities.
Revised IFRS 1 on first-time Changes the structure while retaining the substance, of the previously adoption of IFRS issued version of IFRS 1.
The revised version of IFRS 1 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IFRIC 17 on the distribution of Requires such a distribution to be measured at the fair value of the non-cash assets to owners asset and any difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value to be recognised in the profit or loss.
IFRIC 17 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010.
IFRIC 18 on the transfer of Addresses arrangements whereby an entity receives items of asset from customers property, plant or equipment or cash which the entity must use to connect customers to a network or provide access to a supply of goods or services, or both.
IFRIC 18 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 July 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendment to IFRS 7 on Enhances disclosures about fair value and liquidity risk.
The improvising disclosures about amendment will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April financial instruments 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendments to IAS 39 and Requires reassessments of whether an embedded derivative should IFRIC 9 on embedded be separated out if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 41
