Accounting policies These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are apportioned between regulatory A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements businesses using the following arbitrary bases: These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition of National Grid Gas plcs NTS gas transporter licence Corporate costs charged to NGG by National Grid are apportioned between the regulatory issued under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence and in accordance with International Financial businesses using the same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the allocated Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as charge to NGG.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, operating profit, adopted by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting employees and net assets of the regulatory businesses.
standards and interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2009 and in The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas Holdings Limited is apportioned accordance with the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory values.
Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2008 comparative financial information has Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for this format of regulatory also been prepared on this basis.
accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, was apportioned between regulatory These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No amounts were for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
apportioned to the fide-minimis business or to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent These regulatory accounting statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the period ends have been determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned functional currency of National Grid Gas plc.
amounts by the cash generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Movements in The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates fair value and other funding movements are apportioned between the regulatory and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the period in which the movements contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the occurred.
Other movements include a reallocation between regulatory businesses so that reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
the final amounts allocated are prorated based on the maximum debt potential in each regulatory business.
The maximum debt potential for the combined DNs was determined Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of NGG are using estimated regulatory assets values at the balance sheet date.
attributed to the regulatory businesses reported in the regulatory accounting statements.
Those Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses according to the relative level of net debt determined according to the principles set out above.
revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are not directly attributable to specific Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative regulatory businesses have been apportioned between one or more regulatory businesses to the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
regulatory business, commencing from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments Related items substantially relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April 2005 are apportioned Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of NGG which are not in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, but where there is a reasonable basis for pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the regulatory businesses.
estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned These items comprise shared services and certain business services.
relative to current tax charges and tax paid or recovered is determined by balance.
Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year have been apportioned on the These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between regulatory businesses in basis of profits for the year.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings have accordance with the activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory values.
Unrelated items The total equity of NGG at 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of NGG which premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a balancing item are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is no reasonable at that date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity between the adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for each regulatory businesses.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial items, regulatory business as a consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
34 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other non-current intangible assets are B.
Basis of consolidation amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal These regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial information of the Company amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: and its subsidiaries in respect of the regulatory businesses specified in the condition.
Amortisation periods Years A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Software 3 to 5 Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in accordance with accounting policy P. Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK E. Property, plant and equipment generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP or other framework used in the individual Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by the IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Company in its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Cost includes payroll costs and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment, as well as the cost of any associated asset The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year and covered by the accounting retirement obligations.
requirements of the condition are included in the regulatory accounting statements from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year, or which Property, plant and equipment include assets in which NGGs interest comprises legally otherwise cease to be covered by the accounting requirements of the condition, are included in protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
the regulatory accounting statements up to the effective date of disposal, or the date when Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, including capital expenditure those accounting requirements cease to apply.
for safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, or enhancements to, or replacement of C. Foreign currencies existing assets.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of National Grid Gas plc or the Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are included in subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated over the estimated economic life of the assets to which they relate.
in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other not retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates estimated to Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the write off their book values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated income statement.
useful economic lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing operations are translated at otherwise determined by operational requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated categories of property, plant and equipment are, in general, as shown below: at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the consolidation translation reserve.
Depreciation periods Years Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 D. Intangible assets Plant and machinery: Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and any mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 provision for impairment.
Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic F. Impairment of assets benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which that asset belongs is estimated.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 35 Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable in use at the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited adjusted.
to the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been impaired.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where material, are disclosed to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
G. Taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right exists to Current tax set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes levied Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle current tax asset and liabilities on a expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws net basis.
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
H. Inventories Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, are stated at cost less provision which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where for damage and obsolescence.
Cost comprises acquisition cost and those costs that have been appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected I.
Revenues to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current Revenue principally represents the sales value derived from the transmission of gas during the year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the year.
It excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
In the prior year, current tax asset and liabilities arising from transfer pricing The sales value for the transmission of gas is largely determined from the amount of system adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were recognised when tax returns were submitted to the tax authorities.
capacity sold for the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum Deferred tax amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is recognised on reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the over-recovery is not recognised as such an temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial adjustment to future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an asset is not statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an under-recovery.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be J.
Pensions available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and The substantial majority of NGG employees are members of the defined benefit section of the liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to NGG.
Accordingly NGG accounts for the accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments the contributions payable to the scheme for the period and a share of the assets and liabilities, in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised.
36 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 settled on a net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in K. Leases the income statement in the period they arise.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Where derivatives are embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are closely related to those instruments or host contracts, no adjustment is made with respect to such L. Financial instruments derivative clauses.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an embedded derivative, which is Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of closely related to the underlying debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale relationship existing between interest rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently, financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified these embedded derivatives are not accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the consolidated cost, less any appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under received, net of direct issue costs with an annual amount equal to the nominal amount of the the original payment terms will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may shares issued included in the share capital account and the balance recorded in the share become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors premium account.
insolvency, and default or significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by rate method.
Interest income, together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables using valuation techniques which are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
The techniques use observable market data.
Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental M. Hedge accounting transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in NGG enters into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, and commodity until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative price risks associated with underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised on an effective Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a hedge of another non-derivative interest rate basis and taken through interest income in the income statement.
financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify for hedge accounting Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK retail price index RPI linked debt and documentation is prepared specifying the hedging strategy, the component transactions and overdrafts, are recorded at their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
NGG uses two hedge accounting methods.
net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated and effective costs and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any statement using the effective interest rate method.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or development of qualifying the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where a non-financial asset assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the initial measurement of that nonready for their intended use.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and where fair value of a derivative is Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in the fair value of the hedging positive, it is carried as a derivative asset and where negative, it is carried as a derivative instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being liability.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the transactions are with hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income statement to the extent the fair value the same counterparty, a legal right to set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 37 hedge is effective.
Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item for fair value statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in line with the hedged item.
main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from in the income statement as they arise, within finance costs.
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or P. Emission allowances losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon dioxide, are recorded as an subsequently recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in which the previously intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of emission allowances granted by the recorded to the carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, UK Government, cost is deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Receipts of is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
N. Share-based payments Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part of other operating income.
National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of NGG.
Cash and cash equivalents Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, together with short-term value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments, based on an highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to estimate of shares that will eventually vest, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the an insignificant change in value.
vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by NGG to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
Business performance and exceptional items and The businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements do not have their own and separate share capital or reserves.
Accordingly, equity is reported only in total for each remeasurements business.
NGGs financial performance is analysed into two components: business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
S. Dividends Business performance is used by management to monitor financial performance, as it is Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
considered to increase the comparability of our reported financial performance from year to year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude exceptional items and remeasurements, T. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty are presented on the face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial statements.
The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, reporting period.
Information about such either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our financial performance and judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the significantly distort the comparability of financial performance between periods.
regulatory accounting statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of nonregulatory accounting statements: current assets, significant changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
The basis of attributing items to the regulatory businesses accounting policy A.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the definition of adjusted profits Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs, impairment note 3. of assets, and site decommissioning costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income 38 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business combinations accounting policy A.
The non-recognition of certain net current tax liabilities expected to arise from transfer pricing adjustments accounting policy G. The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy J.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments accounting policy M. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 14 and 16.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy I.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 39
