Accounting policies These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are apportioned between regulatory A.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements businesses using the following arbitrary bases: These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition of National Grid Gas plcs DN gas transporter licence Corporate costs charged to NGG by National Grid are apportioned between the regulatory issued under the Utilities Act 2000 the licence and in accordance with International Financial businesses using the same metrics as National Grid uses to determine the allocated Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as charge to NGG.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, operating profit, adopted by the European Union.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting employees and net assets of the regulatory businesses.
standards and interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March 2009 and in The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas Holdings Limited is apportioned accordance with the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory values.
Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2008 comparative financial information has Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for this format of regulatory also been prepared on this basis.
accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, was apportioned between regulatory These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No amounts were for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
apportioned to the fide-minimis business or to other activities.
The amounts at subsequent These regulatory accounting statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the period ends have been determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned functional currency of National Grid Gas plc.
amounts by the cash generated or used by each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net debt allocated to each business and other funding movements.
Movements in The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates fair value and other funding movements are apportioned between the regulatory and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the period in which the movements contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the occurred.
Other movements include a reallocation between regulatory businesses so that reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
the final amounts allocated are prorated based on the maximum debt potential in each estimated regulatory business.
The maximum debt potential for the combined DNs was Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National Grid determined using regulatory assets values at the balance sheet date.
Gas are attributed to the regulatory businesses reported in the regulatory accounting Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses according to the relative level of net debt determined according to the principles set out above.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity which are not directly Current and deferred taxation are apportioned between the regulatory businesses relative attributable to specific regulatory businesses have been apportioned between one or more to the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax computations for each regulatory businesses according to whether they are related items or unrelated items.
regulatory business, commencing from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments Related items substantially relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April 2005 are apportioned Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of National Grid Gas in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, but where there is a pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the regulatory businesses in the ratio of reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities between the estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned regulatory businesses.
These items comprise activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a relative to current tax charges and tax paid or recovered is determined by balance.
centralised basis, shared services and certain business services.
Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings have These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned between regulatory businesses in been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory values.
accordance with the activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
The total equity of NGG at 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share Unrelated items premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was determined as a balancing item Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity of National at that date.
The amounts at subsequent period ends are determined by separately Grid Gas which are not directly attributable to a specific regulatory business, and where there is adjusting these initially allocated amounts by the equity movements derived for each no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity regulatory business as a consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are Outer Met Area A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN and the London DN, the Outer classified as equity and transferred to the consolidation translation reserve.
Met Area, forms part of the London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting D. Intangible assets purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the Outer Met Area is treated as Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and any part of the East of England DN.
The relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported provision for impairment.
in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of England DN.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is The amounts of additions to the gas distribution network for the Outer Met Area are assessed created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic by management based upon project information.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, benefits: and that the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where no comprising transportation business operating costs, the overall balance of property, plant and internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recorded equipment, other assets and related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other non-current intangible assets are B.
Basis of consolidation amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal These regulatory accounting statements incorporate the financial information of the Company amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: and its subsidiaries in respect of the regulatory businesses specified in the condition.
Amortisation periods Years A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Software 3 to 5 Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
E. Property, plant and equipment Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used under UK Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP or other framework used in the individual IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by the Company in its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company transactions are Cost includes payroll costs and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the eliminated.
construction of property, plant and equipment, as well as the cost of any associated asset retirement obligations.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year and covered by the accounting requirements of the condition are included in the regulatory accounting statements from the Property, plant and equipment include assets in which National Grid Gass interest comprises effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of during the year, or which legally protected statutory or contractual rights of use.
otherwise cease to be covered by the accounting requirements of the condition, are included in Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, including capital expenditure the regulatory accounting statements up to the effective date of disposal, or the date when for safety and environmental assets, and extensions to, or enhancements to, or replacement of those accounting requirements cease to apply.
C. Foreign currencies Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are included in Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of National Grid Gas plc or the creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the over the estimated economic life of the assets to which they relate.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are property, plant and equipment, apart from certain meters, which are depreciated on a sum-ofnot retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
the-digits basis, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates estimated to write off their book Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the values over their estimated useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic income statement.
lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing operations are translated at determined by operational requirements, the depreciation periods for the principal categories of exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated property, plant and equipment are, in general, as shown below: National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 37 Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current Depreciation periods Years year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 tax authorities.
In the prior year, current tax asset and liabilities arising from transfer pricing Plant and machinery: adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were recognised mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 when tax returns were submitted to the tax authorities.
meters and metering equipments 5 to 18 Deferred tax Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method and is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial Following a review of the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment, the depreciation statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
periods of certain assets within the Gas plant mains, services and regulating equipment have been amended.
This has resulted in a decrease in the depreciation charge and a corresponding increase in Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences and operating profit for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 43m.
deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and F. Impairment of assets liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the and its recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that accounting profits nor the taxable profits.
are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on investments that asset belongs is estimated.
in subsidiaries except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and estimated value difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable in use at the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted using a Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited adjusted.
to the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been impaired.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Impairments are recognised in the income statement and, where material, are disclosed to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
G. Taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right exists to Current tax set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes levied Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle current tax asset and liabilities on a expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws net basis.
used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
H. Inventories Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, are stated at cost less provision which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where for damage and obsolescence.
Cost comprises acquisition cost and those costs that have been appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
38 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under I.
Environmental costs the original payment terms will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the debtor, likelihood of the debtors to present values.
Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates or insolvency, and default or significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially recognised changes in the expected timing of expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
The at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
unwinding of the discount is included within the income statement as a financing charge.
Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest J.
Interest income, together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables Revenue principally represents the sales value derived from the distribution of gas and the are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income statement.
provision of gas metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax and intra-group Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus directly related incremental sales.
transaction costs and are subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in The sales value for the distribution of gas is largely determined from the amount of system the fair value of investments classified as available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity, capacity sold for the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, evaluated at until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future prices to Investment income on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised on an effective reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the over-recovery is not recognised as such an interest rate basis and taken through interest income in the income statement.
adjustment to future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an asset is not Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK retail price index RPI linked debt and recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in overdrafts, are recorded at their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, respect of an under-recovery.
net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is largely derived from monthly using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds after direct issue contractual charges for the provision of individual meters under long-term contractual costs and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income arrangements.
statement using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or development of qualifying K. Pensions assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their The substantial majority of National Grid Gas employees are members of the defined benefit intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions cease when the assets are substantially section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or ready for their intended use.
stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to National Grid Gas.
Accordingly National Grid Gas accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and where fair value of a derivative is scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the scheme positive, it is carried as a derivative asset and where negative, it is carried as a derivative for the period and a share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the liability.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the transactions are with Scheme are not recognised.
the same counterparty, a legal right to set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in L. Leases the income statement in the period they arise.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over Where derivatives are embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are closely the term of the relevant lease.
related to those instruments or host contracts, no adjustment is made with respect to such derivative clauses.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in M. Financial instruments the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an embedded derivative, which is Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of closely related to the underlying debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale relationship existing between interest rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently, financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified these embedded derivatives are not accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the consolidated Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds cost, less any appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is received, net of direct issue costs with an annual amount equal to the nominal amount of the National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 39 shares issued included in the share capital account and the balance recorded in the share If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss premium account.
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement immediately.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value O. Share-based payments that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees of National Grid issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by Gas.
using valuation techniques which are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The techniques use observable market data.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments, based on an N. Hedge accounting estimate of shares that will eventually vest, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the National Grid Gas enters into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and nonvesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by National Grid derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign currency Gas to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in exposures, and commodity price risks associated with underlying business activities and the equity.
P. Business performance and exceptional items and Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a hedge of another non-derivative remeasurements financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement of National Grid Gass financial performance is analysed into two components: business changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify for hedge accounting performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items documentation is prepared specifying the hedging strategy, the component transactions and and remeasurements.
Business performance is used by management to monitor financial methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
National Grid Gas uses two hedge performance, as it is considered to increase the comparability of our reported financial accounting methods.
performance from year to year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude exceptional Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments that are designated and effective items and remeasurements, are presented on the face of the income statement or in the notes as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any to the financial statements.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the equity in respect of cash flow hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Where a non-financial asset either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our financial performance and or a non-financial liability results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being significantly distort the comparability of financial performance between periods.
hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the initial measurement of that nonmonetary asset or liability.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of nonSecondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in the fair value of the hedging current assets, significant changes in environmental provisions, and gains or losses on instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being disposals of businesses or investments.
These changes are recognised in the income statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item for fair value Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to redundancy costs, impairment hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in line with the hedged item.
of assets, and site decommissioning costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable commitment is made to incur the costs and the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised main features of the restructuring plan have been announced to affected employees.
in the income statement as they arise, within finance costs.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or is not achieved or is not effective.
losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in which the previously Q.
Other operating income hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses arising on the disposal of properties recorded to the carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, arranged by National Grids property management business, which is considered to be part of is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
40 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 normal recurring operating activities.
Other operating income also comprises income from the U.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty sale of emission allowances and pension deficit recovery.
The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of R. Cash and cash equivalents contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in hand, together with short-term reporting period.
Information about such highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the an insignificant change in value.
regulatory accounting statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
S. Equity Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the The businesses reported in these regulatory accounting statements do not have their own and regulatory accounting statements: separate share capital or reserves.
Accordingly, equity is reported only in total for each The basis of attributing items to the regulatory businesses accounting policy A. business.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional and the definition of adjusted profits note 5.
T. Dividends The exemptions adopted under IFRS including, in particular, those relating to business Dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
The non-recognition of certain net current tax liabilities expected to arise from transfer pricing adjustments accounting policy G. The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy K. Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments accounting policy N. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 13, 16 and 18.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 41
