National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 79 Company accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2009 Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys A.
Basis of preparation of individual financial interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual statements under UK GAAP rights of use.
These individual financial statements of the Company have Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of and financial reporting standards and the Companies Act 1985. tangible fixed assets.
The individual financial statements of the Company have been Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a financial instruments.
straight-line basis to the profit and loss account over the life of These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling the assets.
because that is the currency of the primary economic Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the environment in which the Company operates.
Other tangible fixed assets are The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account depreciated principally on a straight-line basis, at rates as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The estimated to write off their book values over their estimated Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised 1996 Cash Flow lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is Statements.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise determined by operational requirements, the depreciation disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions with related parties, as the Companys financial statements are periods for the principal categories of tangible fixed assets are, in general, as shown in the table below: presented together with its consolidated financial statements.
Furthermore, in accordance with exemptions under FRS 29 Depreciation periods Years Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company has not Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 presented the financial instruments disclosures required by the Plant and machinery: standard, as disclosures which comply with the standard are Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 included in the consolidated financial statements.
Meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 The preparation of financial statements requires management Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent D. Fixed asset investments assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less any expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ provisions for impairment.
E. Impairment of fixed assets B.
Foreign currencies Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of between the carrying values of the net assets of income the Company are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing generating units, including where appropriate, investments, and on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, their recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is defined as monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
Gains the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and value represents the amount that can be generated through the liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
C. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication cost less accumulated depreciation.
Costs include payroll costs that impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their construction of tangible fixed assets.
Impairments are recognised in the profit and loss account, and, where material, are disclosed 80 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 as exceptional.
Impairment reversals are recognised when, in J.
Replacement expenditure managements opinion, the reversal is permanent.
Replacement expenditure is recognised within operating costs and represents the cost of planned maintenance of mains and F. Taxation services assets by replacing or lining sections of pipe.
This Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the expenditure is principally undertaken to repair and maintain the amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates safety of the network and is written off as incurred.
Expenditure and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted that enhances the performance of mains and services assets is by the balance sheet date.
Current tax assets and liabilities treated as an addition to tangible fixed assets.
arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated K. Pensions and recognised in the current year where material.
Further The substantial majority of the Companys employees are adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK the tax authorities.
In the prior year, current tax asset and Pension Scheme.
There is no contractual arrangement or liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which were stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised when tax returns were submitted to the tax recognised in these Company financial statements as if it were authorities.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result period.
A share of the assets and liabilities or the actuarial gains in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these the right to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected Company financial statements.
to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise L. Leases from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss taxation computations in periods different from those in which account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more M. Financial instruments likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified and liabilities are not discounted.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements G. Stocks entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after obsolescence.
deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
H. Environmental costs Loans receivable are carried at amortised cost using the Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated effective interest rate method less any allowance for estimated expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
A provision is established for impairments when The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to loss account as a financing charge.
collect all amounts due under the original terms of the loan.
Interest income, together with losses when the loans are I.
Revenue impaired, is recognised on an effective interest rate basis in the Revenue represents the sales value derived from the profit and loss account.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas Current asset financial investments are recognised at fair value metering services during the year, including an assessment of plus directly related incremental transaction costs and are services provided, but not invoiced as at the year end.
It subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availableWhere revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
At this time the made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to included in net profit or loss for the period.
Investment income future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, on investments classified as available-for-sale is recognised in an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement the profit and loss account as it accrues.
permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail under-recovery.
Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 81 received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
corresponding entry in the profit and loss account, to the extent Subsequently these are stated at amortised cost, using the that the change is attributable to the risk being hedged and that effective interest rate method.
Any difference between proceeds the fair value hedge is effective.
and the redemption value is recognised over the term of the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for borrowing in the profit and loss account using the effective hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account interest rate method.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies derivative asset and where negative, as a liability.
Assets and for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gains or liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of setinitially retained in equity and subsequently recognised in the off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net profit and loss account in the same periods in which the basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For fair value included in the profit and loss account in the period they arise.
hedges the cumulative adjustment recorded to its carrying value Where derivatives are embedded in other financial instruments at the date hedge accounting is discontinued is amortised to the that are closely related to those instruments, no adjustment is profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method.
made with respect to such derivative clauses.
Otherwise the If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net derivative is recorded separately at fair value on the balance cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the sheet.
profit and loss account immediately.
The fair values on financial instruments measured at fair value O.
Parent Company guarantees that are quoted in active markets are based on bid process for The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal assets held and offer prices for issued liabilities.
When and any associated premium and interest on specific loans due independent prices are not available, fair values are determined from certain subsidiary undertakings to third parties.
In the by using valuation techniques which are consistent with event of default or non-performance by the subsidiary, the techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The Company recognises such guarantees as insurance contracts, techniques use observable market data.
at fair value with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
N. Hedge accounting The Company enters into derivative financial instruments P. Share-based payments derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, with a certain employees of the Company.
Equity-settled share-based view to managing these risks associated with the Companys payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant based underlying business activities and the financing of those on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The principal derivatives used include interest rate This fair value is recognised on a straight-line basis over the swaps, forward rate agreements, currency swaps and forward vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the profit and loss account.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
Restructuring costs Costs arising from the Companys restructuring programmes Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments primarily relate to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any Company becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and and the main features of the restructuring plan have been loss account.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow announced to affected employees.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net R. Emission allowances profit or loss.
Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon Secondly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current that are designated as hedges of the changes in the fair value assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at of assets or liabilities fair value hedges are recognised in the the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of profit and loss account.
An offsetting amount is recorded as an emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is adjustment to the carrying value of hedged items, with a deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
82 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
S. Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
