36 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2009 govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to A.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial obtain benefits from its activities.
statements under IFRS Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the NGGs principal activities involve the transmission and accounting policies used under UK generally accepted distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services accounting principles UK GAAP or other framework used in within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited company the individual financial statements of the Company and its incorporated and domiciled in England with its registered office subsidiaries into line with those used by the Company in its at 1-3 Strand, London WC2 5EH.
consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
Inter-company These consolidated financial statements were approved for transactions are eliminated.
issue by the Board of Directors on 5 June 2009.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards C. Foreign currencies IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of Board and as adopted by the European Union.
They are the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 2009 and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not the European Union IAS regulation.
The 2008 comparative retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets The November 2008 amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 on the and liabilities are included in the income statement.
reclassification of financial assets, which is effective 1 July On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing 2008, is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
operations that have a functional currency different from the The amendment relating to the reclassification of financial Companys functional currency of sterling are translated at assets does not have an impact on consolidated results or exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income asset or liabilities of the Company and therefore these and expense items are translated at the weighted average consolidated financial statements comply with both IFRS as exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the European classified as equity and transferred to the consolidated Union.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative D. Intangible assets financial instruments and investments classified as available for Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less sale.
accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: Company.
it is probable that the asset created will generate future The preparation of financial statements requires management economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 37 Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other F. Impairment of assets non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of Amortisation periods Years the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is Software 3 to 5 estimated.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date accordance with accounting policy T. the impairment review is undertaken.
Value in use represents the present value of expected future E. Property, plant and equipment cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less reflects current market assessments of the time value of money accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some equipment as well as the cost of any associated asset indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been retirement obligations.
Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Material impairments are recognised in the income statement Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or and are disclosed separately.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, G. Taxation including capital expenditure for safety and environmental Current tax assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior existing assets.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or equipment are included in payables as deferred income and substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Management credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to relate.
interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Other property, plant and equipment are Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing depreciated, principally on a straight-line basis, at rates adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through estimated to write off their book values over their estimated group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
In the prior year, given to any contractual arrangements and operational current tax asset and liabilities arising from transfer pricing requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through determined by operational requirements, the depreciation group relief, were recognised when tax returns were submitted periods for the principal categories of property, plant and to the tax authorities.
equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: Deferred tax Depreciation periods Years Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 method and is recognised on temporary differences between Plant and machinery the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the meters and metering equipment 5 to 18 computation of taxable profit.
Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable Following a review of the useful economic lives of property, temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised plant and equipment, the depreciation periods of certain assets to the extent that is probable that taxable profits will be within the Gas plant mains, services and regulating available against which deductible temporary differences can equipment have been amended.
This has resulted in a be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the decrease in the depreciation charge and a corresponding temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other increase in operating profit for the year ended 31 March 2009 of than a business combination of assets and liabilities in a 43m.
38 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 transaction that affects neither the accounting profits nor the metering services during the year.
It excludes value added tax taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
Where not reverse in the foreseeable future.
revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be made to future Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for the overapply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to future realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an underexcept where it relates to items charged or credited directly to recovery.
equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The sales value for the provision of gas metering services is largely derived from monthly contractual charges for the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each provision of individual meters under long-term contractual balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer arrangements.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
L. Segmental information Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each Segmental information is presented in accordance with the balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that is has management responsibilities and economic characteristics, become probable that future taxable profit will allow the including consideration of risks and returns, of business deferred tax asset to be recovered.
The Company assesses the performance of its Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a businesses principally on the basis of operating profit before legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets exceptional items and remeasurements.
The primary reporting against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes format is by business.
As all of our operations are within the levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle same geographical area, Great Britain, no secondary reporting current tax asset and liabilities on a net basis.
H. Discontinued operations M. Pensions Cash flows and operations that relate to a major component of The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of the business that has been sold are shown separately from the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK Pension continuing operations.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Scheme to NGG.
Inventories Accordingly, the Scheme is recognised as if it were a defined Inventories, which comprise raw materials and consumables, contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year are stated at cost less provision for damage and obsolescence.
represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the Cost comprises cost of direct materials and those costs that period.
A share of the assets and liabilities, or the actuarial have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present gains and losses of the Scheme are not recognised in these location and condition.
Environmental costs N. Leases Provision is made for environmental costs, based on future Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
Changes straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
in the provision arising from revised estimates or discount rates or changes in the expected timing of expenditures are O.
Financial instruments recognised in the income statement.
The unwinding of the Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified discount is included within the income statement as a financing according to the substance of the contractual arrangements charge.
entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in K. Revenue this category or not classified in any other categories.
Revenue represents the sales value derived from the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 39 allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is link to RPI is considered to be an embedded derivative, which is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective closely related to the underlying debt instrument based on the evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms view that there is a strong relationship existing between interest will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently, these become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the embedded derivatives are not accounted for separately from debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or the debt instrument.
Trade payables are initially An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after amortised cost.
deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised received, net of direct issue costs with an annual amount equal cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, to the nominal amount of the shares issued included in the together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables share capital account and the balance recorded in the share are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income premium account.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active directly related incremental transaction costs and are markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices subsequently carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
When independent prices are not available, Changes in the fair value of investments classified as availablefair values are determined by using valuation techniques which for-sale are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is are consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant disposed of or is determined to be impaired.
The techniques use observable market data.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Investment P. Hedge accounting income on investments classified as available-for-sale is The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative recognised on an effective interest rate basis and taken through financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial interest income in the income statement.
instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail underlying business activities and the financing of those Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at activities.
their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the statement using the effective interest rate method.
hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, hedge accounting methods.
construction or development of qualifying assets being assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments for their intended use are added to their cost.
Such additions that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cease when the assets are substantially ready for their intended cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any use.
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in where fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or derivative asset and where negative, it is carried as a derivative loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability liability.
Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being netted if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the legal right to set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in they arise.
the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being Where we have derivatives embedded in financial instruments hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income or other contracts that are closely related to those instruments statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
or host contracts, no adjustment is made with respect to such Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item derivative clauses.
In particular, interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in the UK retail price index.
The 40 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or line with the hedged item.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as redundancy costs, impairment of assets, and site they arise, within finance costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which an irrevocable Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument commitment is made to incur the costs and the main features of expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer the restructuring plan have been announced to affected qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative employees.
gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in income statement arising from changes in the fair value of which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the S. Other operating income effective interest rate method.
Other operating income primarily relates to profits or losses arising on the disposal of properties arranged by National Grids If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, property management business, which is considered to be part the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is of normal recurring operating activities but which does not transferred to the income statement immediately.
represent revenue, income from the sale of emission allowances, and pension deficit recovery.
Q. Share-based payments National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to T. Emission allowances certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current value at the date of grant based on an estimate of the number assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at of shares that will eventually vest.
This fair value is recognised the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, as an operating emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are are recognised as a reduction in equity.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in R. Business performance and exceptional items respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in and remeasurements which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Our financial performance is analysed into two components: business performance, which excludes exceptional items and Income from the sale of emission allowances is reported as part remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Business performance is used by management to monitor financial performance, as it is considered to increase the U.
Cash and cash equivalents comparability of our reported financial performance from year to Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the original maturity of less than three months that are readily face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an statements.
insignificant change in value and bank overdrafts, which are Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income reported in borrowings.
and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, V. Other reserves either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising financial performance and significantly distort the comparability from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in of financial performance between periods.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
Items of income or expense that are considered by As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable management for designation as exceptional items include such to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 41 W. Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 4.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The non-recognition of certain net current tax liabilities expected to arise from transfer pricing adjustments accounting policy G. The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy M. Hedge accounting accounting policy P. Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 13, 16 and 29.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy K. Environmental provisions note 22.
42 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Adoption of new accounting standards New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2008 09 During the year ended 31 March 2009, NGG adopted the following amendments to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee pronouncements IFRIC.
None of these had a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 12 on service concession Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, arrangements financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for example, under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
IFRIC 14 on defined benefit assets and Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to the present value of economic benefits minimum funding requirements available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The interpretation considers when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be considered available, particularly when a minimum funding requirement exists.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Permits reclassification of financial assets in certain circumstances.
Instruments: Recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 financial instruments: Disclosures on reclassification of financial assets.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted NGG has yet to adopt the following standards and interpretations.
NGG has a number of transactions that fall within the scope of IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers and the impact of this interpretation is being considered.
The other standards and interpretations listed below are not expected to have a material impact on consolidated results or assets and liabilities.
IFRS 8 on operating segments Sets out the requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its major customers.
IFRS 8 achieves convergence with the US accounting standard, SFAS 131 Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information with minor differences.
IFRS 8 has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IAS 23 revised on borrowing costs Removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
IAS 23 revised has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IFRIC 13 on customer loyalty Clarifies that the sale of goods or services together with customer award credits for example, loyalty points or programmes the right to free products is accounted for as a multiple-element transaction.
The consideration received from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement based on their fair values, which will defer the recognition of some revenue.
IFRIC 13 has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IAS 1 revised on the presentation of Requires changes to the presentation of financial statements and adopts revised titles for the primary financial statements statements, although companies may continue to use the existing titles.
IAS 1 revised has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
IFRS 3R on business combinations Makes a number of changes to the accounting for business combinations, including requirements that all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through income: an option to calculate goodwill based on the parents share of net assets only or to include goodwill related to the minority interest: and a requirement that all transaction costs be expensed.
IFRS 3R will be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IAS 27R on consolidated and individual Requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no financial statements change in control.
The revised standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost.
IAS 27R will be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendment to IFRS 2 on share-based Clarifies the definition of vesting conditions and the accounting treatment of cancellations.
Vesting conditions payments are defined as either service conditions or performance conditions.
Cancellations by employees are accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the company.
The amendment to IFRS 2 has been adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 on Addresses the classification as a liability or as equity of certain puttable financial instruments and instruments, puttable financial instruments and or components thereof, which impose upon an entity an obligation to deliver a pro rata share of net assets on obligations arising on liquidation liquidation.
The amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 have been adopted by the company from 1 April 2009.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 43 Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Permits investments to be recognised on first-time adoption of IFRS at cost or deemed cost fair value of Adoption of International Financial previous GAAP carrying amount and removes the requirement to recognise dividends out of pre-acquisition Reporting Standards and IAS 27 profits as a reduction in the cost of investment.
The amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 have been adopted by Consolidated and Separate Financial the Company with effect from 1 April 2009.
Statements of the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate.
Improvements to IFRS 2008 Contains amendments to various existing standards.
The amendments are effective, in most cases, from 1 January 2009, or otherwise for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 15 on agreements for the Addresses the timing of revenue recognition for entities engaged in the construction of real estate for their construction of real estate customers.
IFRIC 15 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IFRIC 16 on hedges of a net investment Clarifies that a hedged risk may be designated at any level in a group and hedging instruments may be held by in a foreign operation.
any company in a group except the foreign entity being hedged, that net investment hedge accounting may not be adopted in respect of a presentational currency and that on disposal the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss are any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the cumulative translation difference on the foreign operation disposed of.
IFRIC 16 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendments to IAS 39 financial Prohibits designating inflation as a hedgeable component of an instrument, unless cash flows relating to the instruments: Recognition and separate inflation component are contractual and also prohibits the designation of a purchased option in its measurement on eligible hedged items.
entirety as the hedge of a one-sided risk in a forecast transaction.
The amendment to IAS 39 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Clarifies the effective date of the reclassification of financial assets.
The amendment is effective under IFRS but Instruments: Recognition and has not yet been endorsed by the European Union and has therefore not been adopted by the Company.
measurement: Reclassification of Adoption of the amendment would not have any impact on results or assets and liabilities.
Financial Assets: Effective Date and Transition.
Revised IFRS 1 on first-time adoption of Changes the structure while retaining the substance, of the previously issued version of IFRS 1.
The revised IFRS version of IFRS 1 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
IFRIC 17 on the distribution of non-cash Requires such a distribution to be measured at the fair value of the asset and any difference between the assets to owners carrying amount of the asset and its fair value to be recognised in the profit or loss.
IFRIC 17 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010.
IFRIC 18 on the transfer of asset from Addresses arrangements whereby an entity receives items of property, plant or equipment or cash which the customers entity must use to connect customers to a network or provide access to a supply of goods or services, or both.
IFRIC 18 will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 July 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendment to IFRS 7 on improving Enhances disclosures about fair value and liquidity risk.
The amendment will be adopted by the Company with disclosures about financial instruments effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRIC 9 on Requires reassessments of whether an embedded derivative should be separated out if a financial asset is embedded derivatives reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category.
The amendment will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2009, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Improvements to IFRS 2009 Contains amendments to various existing standards.
The amendments will be adopted by the Company with effect from 1 April 2010, subject to endorsement by the European Union.
