Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your Next shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying Form of Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of Next plc will be held at the Belmont Hotel, fide Montfort Street, Leicester LE1 7GR on Tuesday 19 May 2009 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 9 as Ordinary Resolutions and 10 to 13 as Special Resolutions.
Further information on these resolutions can be found in the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 16 to 19 and in the appendices to this Notice.
1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 24 January 2009.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the period ended 24 January 2009.
3 To declare a final dividend of 37p per share in respect of the period ended 24 January 2009.
4 To re-elect Christos Angelides as a director who retires in accordance with Article 56.
5 To re-elect John Barton as a director who retires in accordance with Article 56.
6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 22 of the Annual Report.
7 Next 2009 Sharesave Plan That: a the rules of the Next 2009 Sharesave Plan the Plan, the main features of which are summarised in Appendix 1 on pages 92 to 93 and a copy of which is produced to the Meeting and for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman, be approved: and b the directors of the Company be authorised to: i make such modifications to the Plan as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs and best practice and to adopt the Plan as so modified and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the Plan: and ii establish further plans based on the Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the Plan.
8 Next Risk Reward Investment Plan That the Next Risk Reward Investment Plan the Plan, the main features of which are described in Appendix 2 on pages 93 to 95, be and is approved and the Directors be and are authorised to take any action they consider necessary to implement the Plan, such authority to expire at the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010.
89 Notice of Meeting 9 Directors authority to allot shares That: a in accordance with Article 7 of the Companys articles of association: i the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,569,889: and further ii the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to an additional aggregate nominal amount of 6,569,889 in connection with a rights issue as defined in Article 8 of the Companys articles of association : b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 1 August 2010: and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 80 7 of the Companies Act 1985 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
10 Dissapplication of pre-emption rights That: a in accordance with Article 8 of the Companys articles of association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with Article 8 a i of the Companys articles of association shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 985,000: c this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 1 August 2010: and d all previous unutilised authorities under section 95 of the Companies Act shall cease to have effect.
11 On-market purchase of own shares That in accordance with Article 12 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that: a the authority conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the lesser of 29,500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares purchased pursuant to the authority granted at resolution 12 below: b the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: i the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2010, and ii 1 August 2010: and 90 Notice of Meeting e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any contract.
12 Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases That, for the purposes of sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985, the proposed programme agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification the Programme Agreements be and are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any contingent forward trades which may be effected or made from time to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the contingent off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each for cancellation, as more fully described in Appendix 3 on pages 95 and 96 the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2010 and 1 August 2010, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares under any contingent forward trade effected or made before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 11 above.
13 14 day notice period for general meetings That, in accordance with the Companys articles of association, a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 16 April 2009 91 Notice of Meeting APPENDIX 1 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 7: PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE NEXT 2009 SHARESAVE PLAN THE PLAN Operation The operation of the Plan will be supervised by the board of directors of the Company the Board.
It will be approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC in order to provide UK tax-advantaged options to UK employees.
Eligibility UK tax resident employees and full-time directors of the Company and any designated participating subsidiary can participate.
The Board may require completion of a qualifying period of employment of up to five years and may also allow other employees to participate.
Grant of options Participating employees enter into HMRC approved savings contracts, with monthly savings normally made over three or five years.
The price payable for the shares subject to each option will correspond to the maturity proceeds of the related savings contract.
No option may be granted after 18 May 2019.
Options are not transferable, except on death, and are not pensionable.
Individual participation An employees monthly savings under all savings contracts linked to options granted under any Sharesave scheme may not exceed the statutory maximum currently 250.
Option price The price per share payable to exercise of an option will not be less than the higher of: i 80% of the middle-market quotation of a share on the London Stock Exchange up to 42 days before the grant of the option: and ii if the option relates only to new issue shares, the nominal value of a share.
The dealing day s by reference to which this price is determined must fall within six weeks of the announcement by the Company of its results for any period except in exceptional circumstances.
Exercise of options Options will normally be exercisable for six months from the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the start of the related savings contracts.
Earlier exercise is permitted: after ceasing employment by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching age 60 or contractual retirement age or the employing business or company ceasing to be part of the Companys group otherwise, options will lapse on cessation of employment or directorship with the Next group: when an employee reaches 60: where employment ceases more than three years from grant for any reason other than for misconduct: and in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, reconstruction or voluntary winding-up of the Company, except on an internal corporate re-organisation when the Board may decide to exchange existing options for equivalent new options over shares in a new holding company.
Shares will be allotted within or transferred to the participant within 30 days of exercise of an option.
92 Notice of Meeting Overall plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than 10 per cent of its issued ordinary share capital under the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company.
Shares in the groups previous holding company will also count towards this limit.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of this limit unless institutional investor advisor bodies decide that they need not count.
Variation of capital On a variation in the Companys share capital the number of shares under option and the option price may be adjusted.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted under the Plan will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Alterations to the Plan The Board may alter the Plan, provided the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for amendments to the advantage of participants where these relate to eligibility, limits on participation and the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares to be acquired and the adjustment of options.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to minor alterations to benefit Plan administration, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or any company in the Companys group.
Overseas plans The shareholder resolution to approve the Plan will allow the Board, without further shareholder approval, to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the Plan, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the Plan.
APPENDIX 2 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 8 NEXT RISK REWARD INVESTMENT PLAN the Plan As noted on page 17 of the Directors Report and Business Review, the Directors request authority to implement a new risk reward plan in the current year and shareholders approval is sought for the Company to offer its key executives an opportunity to participate.
A similar plan was last implemented in July 2005 the 2005 Plan, details of which are on pages 31 and 32 of the Remuneration Report.
Under UKLA Listing Rules, the continued employment condition imposed on participants determines that the Plan is regarded as a long term incentive plan and, as such, requires prior shareholder approval.
The principal features of the Plan, which are unchanged from the 2005 Plan and the plan shareholders approved at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM, are summarised below.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the executive directors and senior executives approximately 25 that may participate in the Plan, all of whom would be regarded as important to the future of Next.
The Plan requires these participants to make a personal investment in a financial contract out of their own resources.
It is proposed that Next will make special contributions to the Next Employee Share Ownership Trust the ESOT, which will make investments in financial contracts with similar potential returns.
These investments would be held on revocable trusts for those executives who have made a personal investment.
On maturity, any returns accruing to the trust would only be distributed either in Next shares and or cash to those participants who have remained with Next save to the extent described below.
This continued employment condition would therefore incentivise the participant to remain with Next and commit to its future development.
93 Notice of Meeting The investments are derivative instruments that require Nexts share price to grow substantially.
The ESOT investments will be in the form of listed warrants purchased directly from Goldman Sachs International or Barclays Bank plc.
Participants personal investment contracts will be structured as a bet with an independent third party regulated by the FSA which may also purchase warrants to hedge its risk under those contracts.
The minimum and maximum share price targets, as well as the potential returns on maturity, will be materially the same for both the ESOTs and the participants investments.
The pricing of the warrants and participants personal investment contracts will be determined at the time of their issue and will be primarily dependent on Nexts prevailing share price and future dividend expectations.
Participants will lose their investment in full if Nexts share price does not reach the minimum level.
As with previous plans, the Remuneration Committee believes that targets for the 2009 investments will be extremely challenging for the retail industry in the current economic environment.
Participants will be required to invest and risk their own funds and will lose their total investment at all share prices up to the Minimum Share Price 20.50 in 2005, when the average share price was less than 15.00, whereas shareholders will continue to benefit from any share price increase up to and beyond the Minimum Share Price.
By contrast, most LTIP arrangements are of a nil cost nature and lack personal financial commitment by executives.
It is proposed that the total cost to Next of any Plan offered in 2009 will be limited to a maximum of 2 million, inclusive of any employers national insurance liabilities and corporation tax reliefs available to the Company.
If the amount invested by the Company prior to the Companys AGM in 2010 is less than 2 million then no additional investments may be made and this authority will lapse at that time.
It is important to note that any returns in excess of these costs will be paid for by the counterparties to the contracts and will not be subsidised, supported or underwritten by Next in any way.
Each participant will be limited to an amount that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, represents a significant, but not excessive, investment of personal funds.
In addition, the potential contribution by Next to fund investments made by the ESOT will be limited to the lower of 2 million or a maximum of three times the personal investments of participants.
The benefits provided by Next under the Plan will not be pensionable.
In the event that a participant leaves the Companys employment before the maturity of the investment contracts other than in good leaver circumstances such as redundancy, disability or death, any entitlement to a return on investments held by the ESOT will be forfeited in full.
In good leaver circumstances, any entitlement will be restricted pro-rata to the time the participant was employed by Next during the investment period.
Any excess returns received by the ESOT which would have otherwise accrued to departing executives will be retained in the trust and used, at the discretion of the trustee, to provide benefits for other employees of the Next group.
Based on a share price of 12.83 at 23 March 2009 and current market conditions, the indicative target price range for the 2009 investments is likely to be in the region of 16.50 to 20.50.
The investment of up to 2 million in the Plan by the Company should be viewed in the context of the required growth in shareholder value.
On this basis, unless a Final Share Price of 16.50 is achieved in the four year investment period, representing an increase in shareholder value of at least 0.8 billion, the executives would lose all of their investments.
If the Final Share Price reaches 20.50, the increase in shareholder value would be around 1.5 billion, whilst executives would receive the maximum return of approximately 10 times their personal investment.
Against a share price of around 12.50 and market capitalisation of 2.5 billion, the Board believes that, in conjunction with LTIP incentives, implementation of the Plan in 2009 will help maintain management focus on the long term creation of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee will have a general power to amend the terms of the Plan.
However, changes to: the persons participating in the Plan: the maximum amount that Next may contribute in total to the ESOT: the maximum Next contribution to the ESOT in relation to each participants personal investment: the basis for determining, and the terms of, a participants entitlements under the Plan: and the basis of adjustments to a participants entitlements under the Plan in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital 94 Notice of Meeting will not be made to the advantage of any participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change of legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, or regulatory treatment for participants or the Company or any member of the Next group.
Authority to implement the Plan will expire at the 2010 AGM.
APPENDIX 3 FURTHER INFORMATION ON RESOLUTION 12: CONTINGENT PURCHASE CONTRACTS As noted on pages 18 and 19 in the Directors Report and Business Review, approval will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
By virtue of special resolution number 13 passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 13 May 2008 shareholder authority was given to the Company to make on-market purchases of shares for cancellation.
This authority was limited to a maximum of 29.9 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2009 or 26 July 2009.
At the same AGM, authority was granted to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be entered into with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum of 10 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM to be held in 2009 or 26 July 2009.
No shares have been bought back under the authorities given at the 2008 AGM.
Under Sections 164 and 165 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, under the rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing Rules the Company may not purchase its shares at a time when any director is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would normally be made in periods when the Directors might be in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Close Periods.
Typically, these include the periods from the Companys half year end up to the announcement of its interim results in September and the January year end up to the announcement of full year results in March each year.
These Close Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares the Company is able to purchase.
In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable and nondiscretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during Close Periods.
Another method of providing flexibility in its share purchase activities, and reducing the cost of share buybacks, is for the Company to enter into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Close Periods.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2008 AGM, the Company entered into agreements with the Banks the Existing Agreements and the Company intends to terminate the Existing Agreements and enter into new agreements.
The Company proposes to enter into an agreement with each of the Banks the Programme Agreements, under which it may although it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
Under the terms of each CFT, the Company may purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 50,000 shares per week.
Details of each CFT will be announced to shareholders on the day it is entered into by the Company.
Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the Companys share price not reaching a level set at the time that contract is entered into the Suspension Level.
The Suspension Level is determined by the Company and must be between 104% and 110% of the Companys share price as at the start of the CFT.
The price at which the Company may purchase shares during the term of a Contingent Forward Trade the Forward Price shall also be fixed at the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, for so long as the Suspension Level is not reached, without breaching the Listing Rules.
If the Suspension Level is reached, the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no further shares would be purchased under that contract.
In such circumstances, a reduced number of shares would be purchased by the Company for cancellation under that contract.
95 Notice of Meeting Under the provisions of sections 164 and 165 of the Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to be entered into between the Company and each of the Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration of the shorter of the period to the date of the AGM to be held in 2010 or 1 August 2010 and will incorporate the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT will be effected outside a Close Period but shares may be purchased during a Close Period by the Company.
The minimum and maximum amount of time between a CFT being effected and shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT may be effected with the Banks at any time, provided that: the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 9.8 million, representing less than 5.0% of its issued share capital at 24 January 2009: the total cost of shares that the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not exceed 150 million including costs : the Forward Price may not exceed 105% of the average middle market closing price of the Companys shares as derived from the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five days immediately preceding the day on which the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the Contingent Forward Trade was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 0.10: and only one Contingent Forward Trade will be entered into on any particular day.
Subject to the limits set out above, the Company will select the Suspension Level and the duration of each CFT, and the Forward Price will be determined by the relevant Bank.
Shares purchased via the Programme Agreements will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under any authority granted at the AGM on 19 May 2009 for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
The authority granted to the Company under this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2010 or on 1 August 2010, whichever is the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected before the expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase of shares under the Programme Agreements will always be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination events.
A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be available at the AGM on 19 May 2009.
Copies will also be available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester LE19 4AT or at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during usual business hours until the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2009 was 12,717,625.
This represents 6.45% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this special resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2009 would represent 6.79% of the reduced issued share capital.
96 Notice of Meeting Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
A proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please either sign and return a hard copy form of proxy so as to reach the Companys registrars at least 48 hours before the meeting or follow the instructions for electronic proxy appointment through CREST set out below.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the paragraphs headed Electronic proxy appointment through CREST below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and its articles of association, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 17 May 2009 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm on 17 May 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
All resolutions will be put to poll votes.
This means that the votes of all shareholders, including those who cannot attend the meeting but who validly appoint a proxy, are counted.
The procedures for the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
In respect of resolution 12 on contingent share purchase contracts, the Companies Act 1985 provides that this resolution will not be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights carried by any of those shares in voting on the special resolution and the resolution would not have been passed if they had not done so.
Therefore, Next intends to disregard the poll votes which have been cast in favour of resolution 12 attaching to 9.8 million shares being the total maximum number of shares which the Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
As at 23 March 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 197,096,687 ordinary shares.
All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in Treasury.
97 Notice of Meeting Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Documents available for inspection The register of the transactions if any of each director and of their family interests in the shares of the Company, copies of the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, the Companys memorandum and articles of association, a copy of the rules of the Next 2009 Sharesave Plan pursuant to resolution 7 and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 12 are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and will be available for fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
A copy of the proposed Next 2009 Sharesave Plan will be available for inspection at Hewitt New Bridge Street at 6 More London Place, London SE1 2DA and copies of each of the Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 12 will be available for inspection at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during normal working hours until the close of the Annual General Meeting.
