Directors Report and Business Review Next has continued to investigate opportunities to reduce the total waste it produces and to increase the amount it is able to recycle.
Stores and warehouses, where the majority of the waste the business generates is produced, recycled 47% of their total waste 2008: 45% which included over 14,591 tonnes of cardboard 2008: 16,197 tonnes, 1,429 tonnes of polythene 2008: 1,701 tonnes, and 18,813 tonnes of general waste 2008: 22,361 tonnes.
Next reverse hauls all cardboard and polythene from its stores to be recycled and is also working to minimise packaging on its products.
The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations came into effect on 1 July 2007.
Next complies with this legislation through participation in a UK wide WEEE collection system to enable its customers to recycle electrical products free of charge at UK recycling sites.
Community Next aims to make a positive impact in its local communities through a programme of support involving sponsorship, donations and employee time.
Next has offered the following financial support: 2009 2008 Registered charities 839,130 730,978 Individual requests, local and national groups and organisations 56,669 42,969 Commercial support 54,018 146,156 This support has been complemented with the following fundraising activities to generate additional funds for registered charities, groups or organisations: Next charity events 24,346 433,204 Gifts in kind product donations 764,034 394,178 Charity linked sales 181,681 263,058 Employee fundraising 20,960 11,201 Ventura fundraising 11,701 61,461 An example of the positive contribution Next endeavours to make elsewhere in the world is its participation in Soul of Africa.
This is an imaginative self-help initiative which resources groups of unemployed workers in Africa with materials and skills to make hand stitch shoes and t-shirts.
For each of these products it orders, Next makes a donation to a charitable trust that channels much needed funds into schemes to benefit children orphaned by AIDS.
No donations were made for political purposes 2008: nil.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING & OTHER MATTERS Notice of the Annual General Meeting is on pages 89 to 98 and includes the following business: Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 37p per share be paid on 1 July 2009 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 29 May 2009.
The Trustee of the Next Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on shares held by the ESOT, see Note 29.
Directors The current Board, including biographical details, is shown on page 22 of this report.
Mr Netherton retired as a director on 13 May 2008.
Mr Angelides and Mr Barton will retire at the 2009 AGM in accordance with the Companys articles of association and, being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election.
The Board has formally reviewed the performance of these directors and concluded that they remain effective and are committed to their roles at Next.
The interests of the directors who held office at 24 January 2009 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
16 Directors Report and Business Review Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Sharesave plan The Company has operated a Sharesave scheme since 1980.
The current scheme expires early next year and the Board believes that it has been very successful in fostering a common interest between employees and shareholders and encouraging employees to take an interest in the Companys success.
Accordingly, it is proposed to implement a replacement plan for which approval from shareholders is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This will be known as the Next 2009 Sharesave Plan the Plan.
A summary of the main features of the Plan is set out in the Appendix 1 on pages 92 and 93.
Risk Reward investment plan The Company first implemented its Risk Reward investment plan in July 2004 the 2004 Plan.
The retail employment sector was highly competitive and Nexts staff were frequently targeted by its rivals for recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee considered that Next offered competitive base salaries, annual bonuses and an appropriate long term incentive plan compared with most publicly listed retailers.
However, unlike private companies, publicly listed companies such as Next were unable to offer key executives the opportunity to invest in their equity with the prospect of a leveraged capital profit.
The 2004 Plan was introduced by Next to address this issue and assist in the retention and recruitment of its key executives.
As the retail sector remained very competitive in 2005, a revised structure approved by shareholders was implemented in July 2005 the 2005 Plan which included enhanced retention features.
Both plans required that Nexts share price meet demanding thresholds before any return is achieved and details of the 2005 Plan are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Approval for further plans was given by shareholders at the 2006, 2007 and 2008 Annual General Meetings.
However, in the light of prevailing market conditions, the Remuneration Committee did not consider it appropriate to implement a new plan for these years.
Over the six years to January 2009, the management team has achieved total shareholder return of 87%, including share price growth of 44%.
During this period, earnings per share have increased by 128%, dividends have grown by 77% and 1.3 billion has been returned to shareholders through the Companys share buyback programme.
Notwithstanding the fact that no returns were realised from the 2004 Plan, nor are any expected on maturity of the 2005 Plan, the Remuneration Committee believes that this incentive is a potentially valuable way to retain and align the interests of key directors and senior management.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed to approve a further plan the 2009 Plan, thereby allowing the Company flexibility to offer a similar incentive to its key executives and attract new talent to the management team.
The structure of the 2009 Plan would be the same as the 2005 Plan and the cost to the Company would be limited to a maximum of 2 million.
All participants would be required to make a significant investment of personal funds.
The principal features of the 2009 Plan are summarised in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Renewal of authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 9 will, if passed, renew the Directors authority pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 1 August 2010.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, the proposed new authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares equal to an amount of up to one third of the Companys existing issued share capital plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a further amount of up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
As at 23 March 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document the Companys issued share capital amounted to 19,709,668.70, comprising 197,096,687 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in treasury.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
17 Directors Report and Business Review Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Special resolution 10 will, if passed, renew the Directors authority pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the Directors to 985,000, being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 23 March 2009.
This authority also allows the Directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 or, if earlier, 1 August 2010.
Nor do the Directors intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of shareholder representative organisations.
On-market purchase of own shares Next has been returning capital to its shareholders since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering long term sustainable growth in earnings per share.
Over this period, Next has returned over 2.0 billion to shareholders by way of share buybacks and in excess of 806m in dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced earnings per share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital as well as revenue returns and has been transparent to the financial markets.
Special resolution 11 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 29,500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or no more than 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 12: Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than the higher of 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 and 1 August 2010.
The Directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors will also give careful consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
It is the Directors present intention to cancel the shares purchased under this authority.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
The total number of share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2009 was 12,717,625.
This represents 6.45% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 23 March 2009 would represent 7.59% of the reduced issued share capital.
Contingent contracts and off-market share purchases The Directors consider that share buybacks are an important means of returning value to shareholders and maximising sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases are an integral part of the Companys buyback strategy and offer a number of additional benefits compared to on-market share purchases: 18 Directors Report and Business Review Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
Due to the deteriorating economic environment, the Directors did not consider it appropriate to use the authority granted at the 2008 AGM.
However, in December 2007 and January 2008 the Company bought back shares for cancellation under such contracts at a discount of up to 11.75% compared with market prices prevailing when the relevant contract commenced.
Low share liquidity often prevents the Company from purchasing a large number of shares on a single day without affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase blocks of shares over a period of time without distorting the prevailing share price.
This purchase method is also cash flow advantageous insofar as it defers the cash outflow of any related buybacks.
Contingent contracts enhance flexibility in the Companys buyback activity when trading volumes are low or the Company would otherwise be restricted from buying on-market, e. g. during close periods.
The Company has previously entered into irrevocable and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares during close periods.
By entering into contingent contracts prior to any close period, the Company is also allowed to purchase shares off-market during these periods.
Clearance from the FSA for use of contingent contracts, including for settlement in close periods, has been obtained.
Competitive tendering involving up to four banks is used which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The tender pricing mechanism ensures that the Company retains the benefit of forecast dividends, as well as any dividends declared, on share purchase commitments covered by contingent contracts.
As with any on-market share buyback decision, the Directors would use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate financial gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase shares for cancellation using such contracts if, based on the discounted price contracted rather than any subsequent changes to the share price that cannot be predicted, it is earnings enhancing and promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders generally.
Special resolution 12 will give the Company authority to enter into further contingent purchase contracts with each of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The total number of shares which the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be 9,800,000 and would not exceed a total cost of 150 million.
The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix 3 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of each contract will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London, E1 6AD during normal working hours up to the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the Meeting itself.
14 day notice period for Extraordinary General Meetings Special resolution 13 is required in view of the proposed implementation in the UK in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive SRD.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with its articles of association and would like to preserve the ability to do so.
The regulation implementing the SRD will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Under the terms of the SRD, the resolution will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the SRD before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation Your Directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting will promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are shown in Note 26 to the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares for cancellation.
During the year the Company purchased a total of 3,900,000 ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation at a cost of 53.6m, representing 1.9% of its issued share capital.
19 Directors Report and Business Review On 24 January 2009 the Company had 197,096,687 shares in issue.
As at 23 March 2009, there had been no changes to the issued share capital of the Company.
As at 23 March 2009 the following notifications had been received from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
9,985,271 5.07 Barclays Global Investors 7,018,926 3.56 Additional information Shareholder and voting rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 97 to 98 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election at general meeting at least every three years.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, in the event of a change of control, the Companys medium term borrowing facilities may be subject to early repayment if a majority of the lending banks gave written notice to the Company within 30 days of the change of control.
In addition, should a change of control cause a downgrading in the credit rating of the Companys 2013 and 2016 corporate bonds to sub-investment grade which is not rectified within 120 days after the change in control, holders of the bonds have the option to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
This option is restricted only to a downgrade which occurs as a direct consequence of a change in control.
The Companys share option plans and the long term incentive plan contain provisions regarding to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may vest on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
By order of the Board A J R McKinlay Secretary 26 March 2009 20
