56 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors responsibilities set out in their report, is made financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They with a view to distinguishing, for shareholders, the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and to the financial statements.
detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare the comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. financial statements for the Group in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements present fairly for each financial period, the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and a whole: and b the management report, which is incorporated into the recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and IFRS.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: uncertainties they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable By order of the Board information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements in IFRS is sufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
S Barden A M Booker Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 27 May 2009 27 May 2009
