Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 115 N 115 No or rt th he er rn n Fo Foo od ds p s pllc c A An nnu nual r al re ep po or rtt a an nd a d ac cc co ou un ntts s 2 20 00 08 8 0 09 9 Shareholder information Shareholder services and helpline by phone or online.
The commission to deal online is just 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 20, and 1.5% to deal by phone Shareholders who change address, or who want to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account may do so with a minimum charge of 25.
In addition stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no need to open an on the following website www.
com shareholders, or can write to the Registrar, Capita Registrars, Northern House, account in order to deal and you will be able to buy and sell at live prices during market hours.
In addition there is a convenient Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA.
If they require other information about their holding shareholders facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To find out more or to use the can contact the Registrar on the dedicated Northern Foods shareholder information telephone line: 0871 664 0444 calls cost service simply log on at www.
Please have your share certificate to hand when you log-in or 10p per minute, including VAT plus network extras or email their enquiry, indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, call, together with a bank debit card if you wish to purchase additional shares.
These services are offered on an execution only basis and Shareholder information on the internet The Northern Foods website www.
com provides terms and conditions will apply.
This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in Northern Foods plc.
Shareholders access to shareholder information, including our annual and half year reports, share price and recent share price trends, who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up financial highlights and results presentations to analysts as well as a link to our Registrar www.
which may result in a shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
The link to our Registrar allows shareholders to access their Capital gains tax individual shareholder details.
Shareholders will be required to pass an identity check to access their personal information.
The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence.
This figure This link also allows shareholders to download stock transfer, dividend mandate and change of address forms.
is the adjusted price to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, the one-for-one capitalisation issue in August E-communications of the same year, and the demerger of Express Dairies plc Shareholders may also now receive reports electronically now Arla Foods UK on 30 March 1998. by logging onto the Registrars website at www.
Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted com shareholders and follow the instructions by clicking on Manage my eComms or simply follow the link from the Northern to take account of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders Foods website.
If you have any problems registering or would like further information, please contact the Registrars helpdesk are recommended to consult their financial advisers.
on 0871 664 0444 calls cost 10p per minute, including VAT, plus Boiler rooms network extras.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Electronic proxy voting advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas based Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy electronically via the internet should refer to the instructions contained in the circular brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in sent to shareholders with this report.
These operations are commonly known Dividend mandates as boiler rooms.
Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: into their United Kingdom bank or building society account, using the BACS system.
This process ensures that the amount Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Confirmation of payment Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register: is contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time of payment.
Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk: This voucher should be kept safely for future reference.
If the calls persist, hang up.
Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation attached to the last dividend warrant.
Alternatively, a form can be downloaded from the Registrars website or requested by Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts calling the telephone helpline on 0870 664 0444 calls cost 10p per minute, including VAT, plus network extras.
The following share dealing services are available through Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will only be included in company mailings.
More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: Online and telephone Share Dealing This service is provided by Capita Share Dealing Services www.
and offers shareholders a quick and easy way to buy or sell Northern Foods plc ordinary shares at the latest price available on the London Stock Exchange.
You can buy or sell shares
