Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 99 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Independent auditors report to the members of Northern Foods plc We read the other information contained in the Annual report We have audited the parent company financial statements of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
which comprise the Company balance sheet, the Company cash flow statement, the Company statement of recognised We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with income and expense, and the related notes 38 to 57. the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free have formed.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Opinion IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 28 March 2009: and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Deloitte LLP report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Leeds financial statements.
27 May 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
