Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 5 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Northern Foods many opportunities We have successfully adapted our business in the food sector Food is a good market in which to operate to the current retail environment.
Today, total UK food expenditure continues to grow, as it has in working hard to create a strong business previous downturns.
Management believes that there are many pro table opportunities to serve the millions of people who buy our available for an innovative manufacturer like Northern Foods.
products every day Over the past few years, the big four Dear Shareholder, retailers have seen relatively similar Northern Foods a stronger, market share growth.
Despite much press better balanced business comment, absolute changes in their sales Three years ago, management laid out are small from year to year: but all are a clear, simple strategy focussed on the growing.
A key plank in each retailers single key performance indicator KPI of strategy is to win more sales from each creating above market average rate of customer already within their store and to sale products.
The strategy is built on a increase their customers loyalty.
As they foundation of producing great tasting food seek to build loyalty through greater from superior insights into recipe science differentiation in their product offerings, and food technology, together with our we believe they will focus more on building long standing culinary capabilities.
Today, this strategy is beginning to show Northern Foods is well positioned to results.
Northern Foods is now less reliant support speci c retailers achieve their on any single retailer and has a growing differentiation goals: representation with discount retailers and we have created and supported many in value products, which now account of the new food markets over the past for around a fifth of our business.
This 30 years, especially in chilled food: for complements our strength in the premium example chilled ready meals, chilled market.
Our 2008 09 year end results sandwiches and chilled salads: demonstrate Northern Foods ability to we have a deserved reputation in the continue delivering a resilient performance industry for being a leader in quality in challenging economic conditions.
and innovation, which we value and want to build upon: During 2008 09 we overcame 52.3m of we are investing in new initiatives in in ation.
A quarter of the products which we recipe science and food technology.
sell in the UK are manufactured in Ireland so we also tackled the appreciation of the In addition, we have two strong brands, Euro head on.
This was a further headwind with opportunities of their own: of 5m.
the Foxs management team has rebuilt the Foxs brand and refreshed customer Despite all this we have been able to report: relationships.
In 2008 09 we grew brand sales up 4.6% to 975.2m underlying 7 sales by 10.5% to exit the year with a revenue up 5.0% : 52 week value brand share of 9.3% pro t from operations up 8.9% to 52.7m.
ACN Scantrack 52 w e 21 03 09 : whilst Goodfellas has been impacted Whilst these results underline our resilience, recently by a strong Euro all our frozen the management team remains determined pizza is made in Ireland and will be again to drive further growth from this stronger this year, we are working on restaging and more sustainable business.
our brand and manufacturing base.
Revenue by division 2008 09 Profit by division 2008 09 01 Chilled 22.9m 01 Chilled 486.8m 02 Frozen 9.3m 02 Frozen 272.4m 03 Bakery 20.5m 03 Bakery 216.0m 01 01 03 03 7 Underlying revenue excludes the impact of currency rate changes, product categories no longer manufactured, 02 02 acquisitions and discontinued operations, including Fenland 6 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Northern Foods working hard to capitalise upon new opportunities We target attractive We have key initiatives in hand and investment opportunities are anticipated to materialise as the recession ends.
growing markets We are in the detailed planning stages of several important projects: our investment in a new facility, together with DHL, will deliver on-board catering Ready Meals to British Airways: this investment offers Our Ready Meals continue to deliver high British Airways better quality food at substantially lower costs than incumbent repeat purchase for our customers suppliers: we are evaluating a state of the art biscuit facility, which offers good cost saving potential compared to our two existing facilities at Batley and Uttoxeter: it is our intention, in due course, Pizza to re-open our Fenland site with a We have a good market position in number of next generation technologies.
both Frozen and Chilled pizza Although acquisitions are not essential to our strategy, we are alert to opportunities.
We believe further opportunities may begin to crystallise as the full extent of the recession become clear.
A number Sandwiches & Salads of food companies, historically funded by cheap debt, are in a weak position.
Our Sandwiches & Salads business The credit crunch will expose the poor is in tune with the healthier lifestyle pro tability of the private label UK food manufacturing base over the next five years branded manufacturers have always made strong returns, and continue to do so.
We believe that the current changes in Biscuits the economic environment have yet to be Our premium Foxs brand and own label fully understood.
Your management team remains cautious for 2009 10.
We do not business have seen strong sales growth want to undermine our strong industry position by moving too quickly.
We intend this year to restart investment when we see the economy recover and when we have greater clarity on financial markets.
Puddings We have the expertise to deliver a unique range of Christmas puddings for our customers Our strategy is built on a foundation Northern Foods is of producing great tasting food from a stronger, better superior insights into recipe science balanced business X and food technology, coupled with today than it was our long standing culinary capabilities three years ago Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 7 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Northern Foods preparing for Looking ahead investment Northern Foods is a stronger, better 4.6% Management continues to strengthen the balanced business today than it was three business, generating cash and ensuring years ago, as we continue to strengthen sales up 4.6% to 975.2m that we operate from a position of financial our position within the UK food industry.
We underlying sales up 5.0% strength: are investing in the business to ensure that in 2008 09 we generated 35.4m of free it can capitalise upon the new opportunities 8 cash ow before restructuring, which in the food sector which are emerging in 52.7m covers our dividend payment of 20.7m these turbulent times.
at 4.50p per share 1.7 times: pro t from operations up 8.9% we have secured a new revolving credit Your management team, indeed everyone to 52.7m facility with completion of a new 250m at Northern Foods, is excited about the Forward Start banking facility through opportunities that are developing.
We are to July 2012, which replaces the existing all working hard to create a strong business 460m facility in July 2010.
Effective to serve the millions of people who buy our April 2009, the current 460m facility products every day the fide nitive sign of was reduced to 305m.
This new facility quality and value for money.
positions us well in these uncertain times: we co ntinue to manage our pension Stefan Barden schemes.
In consultation with employees, Chief Executive we have ended our fide ned bene t 27 May 2009 schemes for existing employees in the leadership population, moving to a fide ned contribution scheme.
In parallel we are working to reduce the volatility of historic liabilities.
We continue to invest in talent, hiring more senior management with global FMCG experience as well as investing in our own.
Today our senior teams are well balanced, with about a third being new hires over the last two years.
Above all, we continue to invest in the fundamentals of what we do making great tasting food that people want to buy, again and again... and again.
We have created a new role of Chief Scientist, and have rede ned roles to focus on innovation through science and technology.
Our initial progress in this area has already been noted with interest by our customers, who know that our goal is simply to continue giving them the highest rate of sale products in the market place.
8 Free cash ow is net cash from operating activities, adjusted for special pension contributions, less net capital expenditure, plus interest received.
Net capital expenditure is purchase of property, plant and equipment PPE less grants received and proceeds from sale of PPE Chilled page 14 Frozen page 18 Bakery page 22
