Directors report and business review 2.
Operating environment Our external environment intensify the pressure on the balance The largest of NWGs businesses, NWL, between supply and demand.
NWL is operates in the north east and south implementing long term plans to ensure east of England.
The two areas have the availability of water supplies to meet very different economic, demographic both current and future demand in a and water resource characteristics.
region where water resources are already constrained.
The project to increase In the north east there has been a the capacity of Abberton reservoir gradual fall in overall water demand in near Colchester, which has recently recent decades as a consequence of obtained full planning approval, coupled a reduction in industrial demand for with ongoing demand management water.
This trend is expected to continue measures, will secure supplies to the for at least the next five years with a Essex area for the foreseeable future.
faster decline in the short term due to the impact of the economic recession.
The current pressures within financial The north east compares well to the markets have been well documented rest of the country as far as water and the credit crunch has resulted in resources are concerned and our major reduced availability of certain types of regional rivers can all be supported by finance such as index linked bonds.
This provides very high is highly unlikely there will be a return security of supply for our customers.
to the exceptionally low cost of debt experienced from late 2005 to early In contrast, NWLs southern operating 2007.
It is not clear how long current area is in a water scarce region that is difficult market conditions will persist.
forecast to experience further economic With the nancing we have already and population growth in the medium put in place, we are well sheltered term.
While this area has also seen from the current short term volatility in a reduction in demand from heavy the debt markets as we will not need industry and the recession is likely to to raise any new debt before 2011. dampen housing growth in the near future, we have a current deficit, Regulatory environment meaning supplies are not secure in As a monopoly supplier of an a severe drought.
Future growth will essential public service, the UK Abberton plans move forward Essex is the driest county in the UK receiving on average less than 600mm of rain a year.
In a dry year Essex already has a deficit of water supply to demand, making development of the Abberton scheme essential for the area.
Demand for water is predicted to continue to rise, almost entirely due to a significant increase in population in the area.
This means there is a need for a long term and sustainable increase in water resources for the Essex area.
We need to enlarge the existing reservoir at Abberton by 58 per cent as part of the Abberton Scheme to ensure that Essex has a secure water supply for future generations.
Planning permission has been granted to enlarge the reservoir, and build a new pumping station, a pipeline between Wormingford and the reservoir and a further pipeline between Kirtling Green and Wixoe as part of the scheme.
As well as providing a vital new water resource, the scheme has been designed to enhance the reservoir for both people and wildlife.
The plan to enlarge the reservoir is the culmination of 15 years of investigation and consultation, during which over 250 locations for a new reservoir were considered.
Construction work is due to start at the reservoir in 2010 and it is expected that the enlarged reservoir will be fully operational by 2014.
12 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources water industry operates within a saving.
The second and final stage of the demanding regulatory environment.
transfer will happen in January 2010.
The Water Services Regulation We are pleased that the draft River Basin Authority Ofwat regulates prices and Management Plan published by the EA levels of customer service, while the for the rivers in our regions proposed an Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI appropriate balance between challenging monitors drinking water quality and environmental targets and a clear the Environment Agency EA covers evidence base for action.
We support the environmental protection.
Customers emphasis on tackling diffuse pollution at interests are represented by the source rather than end of pipe solutions.
Consumer Council for Water CCWater.
NWL intends to increase the emphasis NWL aims to maintain good working given to catchment management across relationships with its regulators and its operating areas.
This will help tackle with regional organisations, such as emerging challenges from water soluble local authorities, which have an interest pesticides and also bring a range of other in the services it provides and can benets in terms of habitat protection, inuence the companys business.
The Cave Review: competition and Putting customers first innovation in water markets Cave As in the prior year, we have only Review published its final report in April increased our prices for 2009 10 by 2009.
Government has welcomed the ination and have not used the real report and intends to bring forward increase that Ofwats price limits measures into the Flooding and allow.
This is the third consecutive year Water Management Bill in light of its in which we have not implemented recommendations.
In our view, the the maximum price increase.
vital test for any change must be will it improve outcomes for customers?.
By 2010, we expect our combined While the essential characteristics of the water and sewerage bill in the north sector mean the scope for competition east to be one of the lowest in the is likely to be less than in other utilities, country and, in our Essex and Suffolk we agree that there are opportunities to regions, our water bills will compare expand competition beyond its current favourably with other local suppliers.
We remain to be convinced that retail business separation We submitted our Final Business would bring benets for customers.
We Plan, covering the period from April welcome the emphasis in the report 2010 to March 2015, to Ofwat in on measures to increase innovation.
April 2009 setting out the short term proposals to deliver our 25 year strategy Protecting supplies to customers is published in Looking to the future.
We submitted our Our significant investment programme Water Safety Plan to the DWI in will continue to deliver high levels of October 2008 and this underpins our service to our customers and value drinking water quality proposals.
However, within the investment programme, there is We commenced Phase I of Operator a change in emphasis from achieving Self Monitoring in April 2009.
This new quality standards to maintaining involves NWL taking on responsibility the high standards already achieved.
for sampling and analysing the final We will also be working to tackle the efuent at sewage treatment works challenges posed by climate change, for compliance purposes.
This task reducing our operational carbon had previously been undertaken by emissions and improving the resilience the EA.
The transfer is consistent with of our assets.
We believe we are well the Better Regulation principles and placed to deliver these objectives and we expect it to result in a small cost propose raising prices by the minimum 13 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 2.
Operating environment continued amount consistent with both maintaining and raw water but also access to safe and secure water supplies and our reliable efuent treatment services.
commitment to protect the environment.
Stakeholder relations Our customers NWG has a code of ethics, Our Code Our relationship with our customers is of Conduct, which is available on vital to the success of our business.
the Companys website, covering its relationships with customers, We keep our customers informed about employees, suppliers, local communities, our activities through leaets sent out shareholders, other investors and with bills and also through an annual regulators.
NWG meets its stakeholders magazine called Source.
Customers regularly and also communicates also have access via our website at by printed and electronic forms of www.
communication and through the media.
co. uk to a range of information about our services and any supply issues.
National NWL is an active member of Water Customers directly affected by our work UK, the industry association which receive prior notication explaining represents all UK water and waste both the need for, and timing of, the water service suppliers at national work we intend to carry out.
We also and European level.
It provides a very communicate more broadly with local effective framework for the industry to communities through public meetings engage with Government, regulators, and written material explaining the stakeholder organisations and the impact of any work we are planning.
public and helps to develop policy and improve understanding of the industry.
We carry out regular surveys and focus group research to understand our We also meet regularly with national, customers needs, and their perceptions regional and local authorities and other of our service and its value for money.
appropriate organisations to explain Affordability and value for money are NWLs activities and related issues.
important to our customers and are, therefore, key issues for the business.
Political During the year, the Group has worked Our reputation for providing value for with politicians of all parties, ofcials money and working to maintain high and opinion formers.
This work has levels of customer satisfaction has included making representations on undoubtedly helped achieve a positive issues which NWG feels are important response to our appeals to use water to our customers and communities carefully.
such as competition, adoption of private sewers, water for health, NWG is actively involved in the business climate change, the Water Framework community in both of its operating Directive and other legislative issues areas through direct membership and which could affect our customers.
involvement in the councils boards of the CBI, Chambers of Commerce We do not support any political party and other similar organisations.
and we do not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly NWL has longstanding relationships regarded as donations to any political with its key industrial and commercial party or other political organisations.
customers in the areas it serves.
However, the wide denition of The north east, in particular, has a donations in the Political Parties, significant industrial base and existing Elections and Referendums Act 2000 customers and potential investors covers activities which form part of in the region value the availability the necessary relationship between of not only high quality potable the Company and political parties and 14 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources Shareholder authority to permit the Castle View Enterprise Academy Company to continue with these activities until the 2010 AGM will be sought at this years AGM.
We are lead sponsors for Castle View Enterprise Academy in Sunderland, which Our investors will have a business and enterprise specialism.
Our aim is to use our expertise Our main communication with to support academic and vocational attainment and help bring lasting shareholders is through the publication improvement to this community.
The area contains some of the most deprived of the annual report and financial wards in the region: it relied heavily on employment in mining and shipbuilding neither of which has been available for over 20 years.
In many cases, families statements, half-yearly financial report, are experiencing third generation unemployment and ACORN classies interim management statements and 61%-80% of the school catchment population as being struggling families.
through information on the Companys We have committed funding, work in kind, and many work hours from senior website.
In addition, the executive employees to the Academy.
More importantly, when the Academy opens its directors have regular contact with doors to 850 pupils in September 2009, we are committed to supporting the new Principal to run and manage a successful school.
We intend to do this the Companys large institutional through our involvement on the Academys Trust Board, employee volunteers investors, as well as giving presentations and community partnerships.
During Our support has leveraged in 16 million of Government funding to build a state the year, the executive directors met of the art new building and ICT facilities.
This is the largest investment ever 29 times with a range of institutional made in this community and will provide the young people of Castle View with excellent opportunities for a successful future.
Further information on NWGs shareholder relations is contained in the corporate governance report on page 53.
Employees Each company within the Group has developed its own employee policies, reecting the framework set out in NWGs Our Code of Conduct.
These policies are tailored to specic business objectives and operating environments.
Each company aims to recruit and retain the best people, with a diverse range of skills, experience and backgrounds, who are committed to making the company successful.
In return, each company aims to provide opportunities and training for employees to develop their skills and capabilities to equip them to meet the challenges of their roles, while rewarding the contributions of both teams and individuals.
John Cuthbert, Managing political organisations.
These activities Director, and Janet Bridges, include attending Party Conferences, Equality and diversity Principal Designate of Castle as these provide the best opportunity The Group operates an equal View Enterprise Academy, to meet a range of stakeholders, both opportunity policy and promotes laying one of the first bricks of the Academys new building.
national and local, to explain our equality of opportunity in recruitment activities, as well as local meetings and selection, terms and conditions of Photo credit: Sunderland Echo.
with MPs, MEPs and their agents.
The employment, and training and career costs associated with these activities development.
The policy is designed to during 2008 09 were as follows: ensure that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the Name of political party grounds of age, gender, marital status, disability, race, ethnic or national origin, Conservative 4,118 religion or sexual orientation.
NWL Labour 8,247 monitors its workforce prole against Liberal Democrats 2,025 the communities it operates in and Total 14,390 aims to ensure it takes full advantage of the rich backgrounds and abilities of current and potential employees.
15 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 2.
Operating environment continued We properly consider employment is the identication of training needs, applications from people with disabilities in recognition of the importance of and, where existing employees develop training and development in achieving disabilities, it is our policy, wherever the Groups goals and policies.
practicable, to support them through providing appropriate adjustments Communication to their roles and or effective The Group uses a wide range of redeployments.
Our Occupational communication methods including Health Physicians assist this process magazines, newsletters, intranet, notice with professional medical advice.
boards and regular team meetings.
Unplugged, the Group magazine, Consultation and engagement contains articles on activities and news Each company engages with its from across the business, focusing on employees through a variety of employees and their achievements.
NWL means appropriate to its working issues all employees with a series of environment.
The importance of an information booklets clearly explaining inclusive and engaging management areas such as the companys mission style is fully recognised and, in 2008, and values, terms, conditions and NWL continued to develop in this area benets of employment, occupational through over 120 workshops covering health and wellbeing programmes all our employees.
The aim was to and People Plan objectives.
engage employees in a dialogue on improvements to our working practices Disclosure Whistleblowing and environment and seek their views The Group encourages open feedback on the areas that should be covered in and is committed to protecting our 2010-15 People Plan.
In March 2009, employees who wish to voice concerns the Chartered Institute of Personnel about behaviour or decisions that and Development presented NWL with they believe to be illegal or unethical.
the Employee Engagement Award in The Audit Committee regularly recognition of its proactive and inclusive reviews the Disclosure Policy.
Health and safety Training and development A safe working environment is given All Group companies train and develop high priority across the Group.
A health their employees to benefit both the and safety policy is maintained and Employees celebrate their company and the individual.
Annual implemented at each subsidiary.
success at the northern skills appraisals are given high priority, as awards with Kriss Akabusi.
16 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources John Cuthbert and Ceri Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP priorities underpins all of our Jones with players from the The directors believe that employee activities and is an integral part Newcastle Eagles basketball investment strengthens the ties between of the way we do business.
team l-r Darius Defoe, Lynard the Group and its employees.
More Stewart and Reggie Jackson supporting Children in Need.
than a third of employees participate We have significant resources in in the SIP, with an interest in 0.5% of our assets, land and employees and the issued share capital.
The scheme believe we have a responsibility to provides one free matching share use these resources for the benefit of for every three shares bought by our customers, our shareholders and an employee.
Shares for the SIP are the wider communities we serve.
purchased at market price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash directly to The Managing Director is directly participants.
There are no performance accountable to the NWL and NWG conditions attached to the SIP but free boards for both the environment and shares not held in trust for at least sustainable development policies.
Employees participating in the SIP are given the We have developed our own model opportunity to exercise their voting to integrate corporate responsibility as rights through the Trustee of the SIP.
an essential part of normal business practice in NWL.
This model is published Corporate responsibility on our websites with links to our NWL is expected to provide a policy, action plan, key performance secure supply of water, a basic indicators, trend data and case studies necessity for health, and to protect for 25 key areas of our business.
or enhance the environment when we return waste to it.
However, our The Corporate Responsibility Committee stakeholders also expect us to: CRC is a subcommittee of the NWL N behave fairly and responsibly: board and comprises non-executive N use resources wisely: directors, management team members N improve quality of life: and and senior managers from the business.
The CRC maintains a strategic overview of corporate responsibility policies We take our corporate responsibilities and issues.
Our aim of balancing Corporate Responsibility Management economic, social and environmental Group CRMG drives and manages our 17 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 2.
Operating environment continued corporate responsibility programme communication and inuence is as both prioritising activity and facilitating effective and widespread as possible.
We also have specialist working groups responsible for investigating, advising The CRMG is supported by two regional on and driving change on specic groups and by teams of community projects, such as climate change, energy and environmental champions drawn use, transport, waste and recycling.
from across the business to ensure NWLs corporate responsibility model.
18 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
