Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance Helen Charlton, NWL uses a range of indicators to team each month.
In addition purpose and source of the main KPIs to the financial indicators shown on are shown on pages 44 and 45. page 19, NWL also uses non-financial indicators throughout the business.
NWL performance against nonPerformance against these indicators financial KPIs unaudited is is reviewed by the management shown in each section.
Customer satisfaction North N Target Performance South S 2008 09 2008 09 1 Overall service % N S 90 88 1 Value for money % N S 85 84 Note: 1.
Satisfaction measured on a net basis see appendix to the directors report and business review.
NWL carries out regular quarterly CCWater has carried out its third tracking surveys of domestic annual survey for domestic customers customers and, during the year, on a number of key themes, including customer satisfaction levels remained value for money.
This years survey very high, with 90% of customers again concluded that, of all water satisfied or very satisfied with the companies customers, ours are the service NWL provides and 87% most satisfied with the fairness of feeling it provides value for money.
charges and value for money.
26 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources Domestic customers North N Target Performance South S 2008 09 2008 09 Properties at risk of low pressure N 274 271 S 126 40 1 Properties subject to unplanned interruption N 3,000 8,278 2 of six hours or more S 2,000 3,353 Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N S 0 0 Properties subject to sewer ooding incidents other causes N 150 286 Properties at risk of sewer ooding incidents once in ten years N 61 189 Properties at risk of sewer ooding incidents twice in ten years N 41 370 Billing contacts responded to N 99.2 99.2 within five working days % S 99.2 99.6 Written complaints responded to N 99.8 99.9 within ten working days % S 99.8 99.7 Bills based on meter readings % N 99.95 99.90 S99.9599.95 All telephone lines busy % N 0.25 0.07 S 0.25 0.06 Abandoned telephone calls % N 2.50 3.43 S 2.50 1.95 Notes: 1.
Performance affected by a major burst in Northumberland.
Performance affected by a major burst in Suffolk.
Understanding and meeting the needs of feedback on our performance which customers is at the heart of our strategy helps to identify areas for further and NWL is committed to providing a improvement to our high standards.
high standard of customer service that meets those needs and those of our In a further reection of focus on regulators.
The introduction of our right customer service excellence, one of first time every time philosophy during a number of awards for NWL this 2008 09 was part of the re-launch year was the North East Contact of our customer care charter and a Centre of the Year 2008. campaign to reinforce a strong customer service ethos across the business.
Business customers The economic situation has had a Ensuring we receive payment for the significant impact on some business services we provide remains a priority sectors which are important in our and our ongoing focus on debt recovery operating regions and NWL has inevitably generates contact from been working closely with major customers in arrears.
In the current customers in those sectors to mitigate economic climate we expect the level of the impact where possible.
It has our debt recovery activity to increase.
also taken the opportunity to work with potential new businesses in During the year, CCWater introduced its regions and with the regional a new quality assessment process for economic agencies to both secure complaint handling.
We work very existing and encourage new business.
closely with CCWater and welcome 27 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued Leisure customers NWL is one of the founding members of Kielder Water & Forest Park Charitable Trust.
This will replace the existing Kielder Partnership and seek to promote sustainable development, recreation, access and leisure, education, infrastructure and a range of other charitable purposes at Kielder and in the surrounding area.
The Trust is seeking registration as a charity and will be chaired by John Cuthbert, Managing Director.
The development of Kielder Water & Forest Park is supported by the Northumberland Strategic Partnership, Kielder Water & Forest Parks Government Ofce Northeast and new website at www.
This year has seen provides further details of all facilities.
the completion of a 27 mile lakeside multi-user track and water access NWL continues to develop its leisure points as well as the opening of an facilities at all strategic sites, investing in award winning observatory and a shing facilities, holiday accommodation range of mountain biking tracks.
The and supporting Access for All.
Biogas holding vessels at Bran Sands, on Teesside.
Bran Sands turns anaerobic This autumn, work will be completed on a green energy scheme at one of our largest treatment works at Bran Sands, on Teesside, which will help generate energy to run the plant.
The thermal hydrolysis advanced anaerobic digestion will enable us to use waste sludge to generate methane to fuel gas engines and produce c. 4.7MW of green electricity.
This will reduce the site demand for grid electricity by half.
Raw sludge is placed in stainless steel vessels, injected with steam and held under pressure at high temperatures to break the sludge down.
The pressure and temperature is reduced and the sludge is then passed to the next step to be digested by billions of tiny methane producing bacteria.
This methane will be used to fuel the gas engines and reduce our carbon footprint.
We plan to build a similar plant on Tyneside and, together with the Teesside plant, this will increase our use of renewable energy to over 20%.
The sludge cake that remains after this process is odourless, harmless and can be used as a fertiliser for agricultural land.
28 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources Water As shown in the table below, the quality of drinking water supplied by NWL remained excellent in 2008 09.
North N Target Performance South S 2008 09 2008 09 DWI Mean Zonal Compliance % N 99.90 99.92 S99.98 99.99 DWI Operational Performance Index % N 99.65 99.67 S99.9899.98 Distribution Maintenance Index % N 99.70 99.52 S99.8099.96 During the year, projects to improve in April 2009, with the granting of water treatment processes were planning permission for the reservoir completed at a number of sites.
At raising, pipelines and pumping stations.
Lartington, in County Durham, a new This successful conclusion was the sludge treatment process was installed.
culmination of years of extensive Sludge from this facility is now recycled, work with environmental scientists, increasing the recycled volumes of lawyers and planners to produce sludge from water treatment works the environmental statement and to above 50%.
Work to increase the supporting documentation submitted output from Layer water treatment to the planning authorities.
The EA is works in Essex, by 20%, was completed continuing to prepare the application successfully, improving the resilience to vary its licences at Denver and of supplies throughout the region.
Blackdyke, in Norfolk, which, together with the enhanced transfer facilities One of NWLs key priorities is to continue and the enlarged reservoir, will secure to reduce the amount of water lost water supplies for customers in one from its networks and the leakage of the driest areas in the UK.
targets agreed with Ofwat have been met despite increases arising from the Our long running water efficiency colder than average winter.
The leakage promotions and good relationship with in our southern operating area remains our customers continue to produce a amongst the lowest in the country positive response.
This will become even as it has been for many years.
NWL more important in future following aims to set best practice standards the introduction by Ofwat of water to manage leakage and is playing a efficiency targets for companies.
leading role in a review of leakage methodologies with the EA and Ofwat.
Metering also has an important role to play in managing the demand for water.
A large diameter mains cleaning For several years we have been installing programme, which began in February water meters on change of occupier 2007 and will be complete by 2011, in properties in the Essex area.
This is will improve tap water quality to in addition to the optional metering 500,000 customers in south east scheme available to all customers.
Northumberland, north Tyneside and Around 43% of domestic households the north of Newcastle.
This work in Essex, 56% in Suffolk and over 20% is progressing well and will make a of Northumbrian are now metered.
significant contribution to the planned reduction in customer complaints.
Although supplies are plentiful in the north east, we believe it is still important Water resources to manage the demand for water so Our plan to increase the capacity of that it does not exceed levels that can Abberton reservoir near Colchester be supplied in a sustainable way.
by 58% reached a key milestone, 29 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued Environment Target Performance Northern operating area only 2008 09 2008 09 Sewage treatment works % 99.7 100 Bathing waters Mandatory Standard % 100 100 Pollution incidents 96 94 All 33 bathing waters in NWLs area works in Darlington, Sunderland passed the EU Mandatory Standard and Browney County Durham.
and 20 of these also met the more demanding Guideline Standard, despite NWL continues to benefit from its poor weather in the summer of 2008. ongoing investment in real time We are working with the EA to identify monitoring devices in the sewer network the impact of other stakeholders, which provide information on ow including local authorities, highway levels.
Further improvements linking authorities, farmers and land holders, this data with rainfall information allow on the quality of bathing waters.
operational teams to focus on significant overows from the network which All 158 2008: 157 consented can cause pollution.
The downward sewage treatment works met their trend of pollution incidents over the required standards during the year.
last five years has been maintained.
Improved operating practices based Last year, there were 94 incidents upon timely interventions from our attributed to our assets, mainly from foul enhanced performance monitoring sewers and combined storm overows system, together with focused capital 25 less than the previous year.
The Right Honourable Hilary maintenance investment, contributed Benn MP, Secretary of State to this performance.
significant Intense rainfall during localised summer for Environment, Food and investment was made at strategic storms caused extensive ooding Rural Affairs on his recent visit to view the radar.
Understanding the weather We are committed to reducing the risk of ooding for our customers but the lack of reliable weather data in the north east has meant that predicting storms and the subsequent impact of rainfall on our sewerage network has been problematic.
We need access to information to make accurate network performance predictions and understand how our 16,000km long sewerage network copes in different weather conditions, including the severe localised storms we have seen in recent years.
We have joined forces with the Meteorological Ofce and the Environment Agency to install a 1 million rain radar at High Moorsley, near Durham City, which will record the location and intensity of rainfall.
The central location of the radar will provide excellent coverage of the major urban areas, including those most vulnerable to ooding.
The coverage we currently receive is in 5km grids but will reduce to 1km grids.
The radar will help us to focus ood alleviation work in the risk areas and help the Meteorological Ofce and the Environment Agency give more accurate and timely ood warnings.
The rain radar is a perfect complement to the NWL sponsored network of 85 school weather stations as part of the Northumbrian Water GLOBE project.
This unique project forms part of the international GLOBE programme, a network linking weatherstations in schools in 110 countries, the data from which can be used by us locally but which can also be accessed by scientists internationally including those at NASA.
30 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources during the year with 829 properties N contributing to the project in the ooded internally, well above the North Pennines, which has 27% of long term average and second only Englands peat-forming blanket bog to 2005 06 with 1,160 properties.
which locks in carbon, preventing it Investment to reduce the risk of being released into the atmosphere: sewer ooding has been increased.
N encouraging customers, through our During the year, 20 schemes were Water is precious campaign, to use completed to alleviate ooding risk water wisely and recognise that if they for 114 properties and we improved waste water, they also waste energy 102 combined sewer overows.
This a water carbon footprint calculator will further improve rivers and water is now available for customers on our courses, enhance their visual appearance websites to emphasise this link : and David Chapman, NWLs and reduce pollution incidents.
N introducing a new work management Climate Change Manager.
system which will improve Climate change customer service and efficient The water industry is one of the working, and will also signicantly largest users of energy in the UK and reduce mileage in our vehicles.
we aim to play a full part in support of Governments plans to reduce Through these projects we have reduced emissions.
We have been working the amount of energy used by almost over recent years to reduce our carbon 9% over the last five years.
We are footprint while preparing ourselves continuing to develop our understanding for the future challenges of a change of the potential impacts of a changing in climate and the weather events we climate.
The UK Climate Projections may face as a consequence.
We will will be published later this year and shortly commence commissioning of an we will be revisiting our assessment in advanced anaerobic digestion plant at light of the new science that emerges.
Bran Sands which, when operational, will provide 50% c. 4.7 MW of the Our work to date includes: N energy requirements of the site.
A similar publishing our Water Resource investment for our site at Howdon, Management Plan and our strategic on Tyneside, has been included in direction statement Looking to the our Final Business Plan submission.
future which include an assessment of climate change on water resource Detailed below are some of our projects needs for the next 25 years: N to reduce our impact on climate change: undertaking an assessment of the N limiting tertiary UV disinfection main threats to service provisions outside the bathing water season and continuity from ooding, in at five major works reduces energy response to the oods seen elsewhere consumption and carbon emissions in 2007 and the subsequent Pitt with no detrimental effect on Review: Lessons learned from the marine environment: the 2007 oods Pitt Review : N N introducing anaerobic digestion, aiming by 2013 to have completed, as part of our sludge strategy, will with relevant agencies, a major study generate power at three smaller sites on Tyneside to explore sustainable initially, and at two larger sites Bran drainage options that take into Sands will be complete in 2009 and account regional development and the Howdon is planned for the next five impact of climate change building on year investment period increasing our similar work carried out in Hartlepool total renewable energy to over 20%: as part of the Defra Making N generating our own renewable space for water scheme : and energy with hydroelectric plants at N working with experts to understand Kielder, Derwent, Lartington and the potential impact on our assets Wear Valley reservoirs and biogas and sharing information with combined heat and power at the North East Climate Change Stressholme, Hexham and Aycliffe: Adaptation Study and Action Plan published on 1 May 2008.
31 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued Quality The company also achieved NWL has maintained its certication to companywide certication to the the international quality standard ISO international occupational health and 9001:2000 and to the international safety management standard OHSAS environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 18001 in 2007. across all areas of the business, including operational sites and ofce based teams.
Employees Throughout the Group we have 3,147 employees, as set out below: Average number of Group business unit employees % Northumbrian Water Limited 2,966 94 Water and waste water contracts 156 5 Other 25 1 Total employees 3,147 100 NWGs key asset is its employees and Currently 62% of employees participate one of the strengths of NWL is employee in the scheme, up from 27% last year.
loyalty: employee turnover is relatively low at 6.4%, well below the UK water NWG places great emphasis on industry average of 10.4%.
NWG ensures health and safety and employees are its terms and conditions both attract and actively encouraged to be involved retain the best employees in the areas it in identifying and eliminating serves.
NWL employees also have access hazards in the workplace.
This has to a scheme which provides a wide resulted in a significant reduction range of benets including childcare in accidents over recent years.
vouchers and discounted store vouchers.
North N Target Performance South S 2008 09 2008 09 1 Employee turnover rolling % N SIndustry 6.4 average 10.4 Lost time reportable accidents per 1,000 employees N S 5 6 Sickness absence % N S 2.85 2.94 Notes: 1.
No target set, data for information.
The active involvement and engagement are proud to work for the company of everyone across the business is an and 71% telling us that NWL is a important part of delivering performance great organisation to work for.
and NWL continues to formally seek the views of employees through an annual Training and development employee attitude survey.
This years NWL introduced an extensive People Plan survey was completed by 57% who in 2007 in which it set out a programme gave their views on their working life, to support and develop employees.
training, communications, managers and the company.
The results were Everyone who joins NWL receives a reported back to all employees at personalised induction plan outlining workshops and employees participated their familiarisation and training in the development of action plans programme for the first weeks of with their managers.
In addition they satisfaction levels remain very high with are invited to an induction day where over 77% of respondents stating they they meet senior managers and are 32 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources introduced to the company and our business.
In 2009, we plan to recruit approach to key areas including health nine new apprentices, including the and safety, terms and conditions, first apprentice for our information pensions and Just an hour.
Candidates undertake a four year development programme and We are committed to the continuous have excellent career prospects when development of occupational skills they complete their apprenticeships and signed the Governments Skills being guaranteed employment on Pledge, committing to 90% of successful completion of their training.
employees achieving the National Vocational Framework NVQ Level Our Graduate Development Programme 2 standard by December 2009 and was re-launched in 2008, to provide 95% as soon as possible thereafter.
potential leaders for the future.
Candidates undertake a two year An ambitious NVQ programme is programme with three to six month being rolled out in our customer placements in different parts of and operational areas.
In addition to a line been secured from the Learning manager they are also given a senior and Skills Councils Train to Gain management mentor.
Employment is fund and also through Business Link.
guaranteed on successful completion In December 2008, NWL was the of the programme.
We recruited four first water and sewerage company graduates in 2008 and plan to recruit in the UK to have all its 138 water an additional four to start in 2009. treatment production operators meet the requirements of the Competent One of the objectives of the People Operator Framework and achieve a Plan is to develop leadership skills in nationally recognised qualication, the current and potential managers.
NWL NVQ Level 2 in Operating Process Plant.
continues to implement its Management Development Framework which is Since the re-introduction of our structured to cover the training needs apprenticeship scheme in September of those who show the potential 2007 we have recruited 18 apprentices for management right through to for the maintenance area across the development at director level.
As part John Cuthbert and Kriss Akabusi present Kenny Allport his award at the southern skills awards.
Investing in our people As a business we rely on our people and are committed to giving them the best training possible.
We encourage them to gain qualications even if they lack self confidence when it comes to formal study.
National Vocational Qualications NVQs measure and recognise competence at work and are designed around the skills and knowledge people use in their jobs.
We are making great progress towards our published skills pledge target of 90% of our workforce to be qualied to a minimum of level 2 NVQ by the end of 2009.
In 2006, when the programme began, this gure was only 60% but since then NVQs have been achieved in a wide range of areas including customer service, business administration, engineering maintenance, team leading and assessing.
We were the first water and sewerage company in the country to have all of our 138 treatment works operators gain the new NVQ in Operating Process Plant.
This has been developed specically to meet the national occupational standards set by the water, electricity, gas and waste management industries to achieve competent operator status.
This qualication incorporates the best possible working practices and means we are setting the standard of best practice in our eld.
Everyone who achieves a qualication is invited to annual skills awards ceremonies to celebrate their success and applaud their dedication and hard work.
33 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued NWLs Management Development of this framework we are working in by providing a wide range of services, Framework model.
partnership with Newcastle Business support and resources relating to School to provide qualications from occupational health, with the Groups a Diploma to a Masters degree in medical advisor providing comprehensive leadership and management.
occupational health services, general health promotion and stress Employees academic achievements management.
NWL employees also have were celebrated this year at our third on and offsite access to specialist advice annual skills awards.
Attended by and treatment to support recovery senior managers from around the from musculoskeletal disorders MSD.
business, and with guest speaker Kriss Akabusi, the events were again We continue to promote healthy motivational and memorable.
eating, hydration and discourage smoking in our workforce and offer Health and safety excellent health screening and medical Our emphasis on the importance of insurance schemes.
Around 1,700 health and safety within NWL has employees have been through our resulted in major improvements to our health screening and tness standards safety record in recent years.
This year programmes, both of which now we experienced six lost time reportable include lifestyle advice elements.
In accidents per 1,000 employees, the first year we have reduced sickness which is a 57% reduction over the absence due to MSD by just over 9%.
This has been accompanied by a further reduction NWLs current level of sickness absence is in days lost through accidents.
2.94% which is the lowest ever achieved and well below the norm for the sector.
We have established a medium term plan for taking health and safety forward Research and development in the business to 2014.
We aim to We run a programme of research further reduce the number of accidents and development linked to our core by 10% each year and to reinforce business operations.
This includes the the safety culture in the business.
development of technical solutions for water and waste water management, NWL proactively supports and collaborative research within the encourages employees to strive for sector and through partnerships with high standards of health and wellbeing academic and research organisations.
34 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources During the year, the Group invested two new reverse osmosis plants to 1.8 million 2008: 1.8 million replace ageing and relatively inefficient in research and development.
distillation plants, a 3.4 million investment, has been completed.
Water and waste water contracts Revenue for the Groups water and Other waste water contracts was 39.8 Agrer million for the year to 31 March 2009 Revenue for the year to 31 March 2009 2008: 35.5 million and profit on was 7.2 million 2008: 6.9 million.
ordinary activities before interest During the year, the level of new projects was 9.1 million 2008: 8.4 million.
has been lower than the previous year The increase is principally due to a but the order book at the end of the credit in respect of gas indexation period, as Agrer enters its 50th year, 2.4 million on tariffs at Caledonian is reasonable.
Several contracts have Environmental Services offset slightly been extended and the most significant by increased power and sludge disposal new contracts are: technical assistance costs.
All contracts are performing to the management and development well, in line with expectations.
of natural resources in Chad 0.9 million two years : a study for the The Group is a member of two privatisation of the coffee sector in consortiums delivering long term Burundi 0.6 million ten months : private finance initiative contracts and the study of the agricultural with Scottish Water for waste water development of the Guiers Lake area treatment.
At Levenmouth, the Group in Senegal 0.4 million one year.
has a 75% shareholding in both project and operating companies and the Corporate responsibility benefit of a 40 year contract.
Funding NWL supports the communities we was provided through a 37 year xed serve in a number of different ways.
As interest rate corporate bond with the well as providing financial support and principal amortising from 2008. facilities, we encourage employees to volunteer their time, skills and expertise.
In Ayrshire, the Group has a 75% These activities generally support shareholding in the project company projects that make the areas we serve and a 100% shareholding in the better places in which to live, work or company that operates the three invest.
The programme focuses on key efuent treatment plants that make themes throughout these communities up this 30 year contract.
Finance but, increasingly, we are developing was provided through a 27 year loan initiatives designed to tackle lasting and on a xed interest basis with the sustainable change in specic areas.
In April 2009, NWL received the In Ireland, the Group is part of a Queens Award for Enterprise, contractual consortium that designed in the category of Sustainable and built a waste water treatment Development and the citation read: plant for Cork City Council.
Under the consortium agreement, the Northumbrian Water Limited receives Group has responsibility for a 20 the Award for its ongoing and impressive year contract for the operation commitment to sustainability.
and maintenance of the plant.
It has actively striven to promote AquaGib Limited, two thirds owned best practice within its sector and by the Group in a joint venture with is committed to ongoing review the Government of Gibraltar, operates and continuous improvement.
Gibraltars dual drinking water and sea water distribution systems under its With a commendable and ever 30 year contract with the Government improving environmental performance of Gibraltar.
The project to install in place, it is, however, Northumbrians 35 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued extremely impressive social and N the employee engagement winner economic initiatives which elevate at the North East of England it to the status of sector leaders.
Chartered Institute of Personnel Development HR&D awards: and A diverse suite of programmes have N the category winner of Culture been implemented, encompassing local for Success Large Employer Award procurement, strong apprenticeship for employee development, programmes, individual up skilling customer service, business growth and the continuous leverage of their and the contribution we have spending power, employment and made to the community.
wider economic presence to ensure maximum benefit for local communities.
Over many years, we have donated at least 1% of our pre-tax profits Northumbrians driving commitment through cash, employee time and to sustainability governance provides expertise, or use of our facilities an example and benchmark across to projects which benefit the sectors, demonstrating that strong communities we serve.
We reported leadership and ambition can make a this publicly as part of BITCs Per tangible difference to communities Cent Club standard and, although both local and more widely.
this ended in October 2007, NWG has maintained this commitment.
NWL was also named Utility Company of the Year at the Utility The Group made charitable donations Week Awards in December 2008. totalling 134,415 during the year.
Steve Hobson, the Editor said: Community support Last year for the first time we asked our Employees and volunteering panel of eminent judges to nominate Currently 22% of employees participate and vote for the utility they felt deserved in the Just an hour volunteering the accolade Utility Company of the scheme and last year gave over 6,500 Year.
The aim was to open this top hours to the community.
Over 500 category to companies that deserve different organisations were given such recognition but often dont financial and in-kind support during enter awards for various reasons.
The Care for safety scheme, which encourages employees to Northumbrian Water was a worthy reduce accidents and associated lost winner for the way it builds its business time, has triggered payments totalling around customers and the community, 52,655 for our nominated charities principles that usually do not make Great North Air Ambulance Service, headlines but show that a successful Mencaps Dilston College, RNLI, St utility really does put customers Teresas Hospice and East Anglias at the heart of its business.
Since it began over 250,000 has been raised for charity.
In addition to the awards outlined above we were: Education N members of the Further to the launch of the FTSE4GoodIndex again: Northumbrian Water GLOBE N ranked by Business in the programme, which saw us link up Community BITC as one of the with the international environmental top 100 Companies for corporate education initiative set up by Al Gore in responsibility and as a Platinum 1996, we donated 85 fully automated ranked company.
It also awarded weather stations and associated the company its Big Tick award training to schools throughout the for its impact on society and for northern region, to collect weather being a healthy workplace: data in areas where Meteorological N leading water company in Britains Ofce coverage is poor.
This data is Most Admired Companies survey: now helping to increase understanding N North East Call Centre of the Year of the impact of climate change, in the 2008 contact centre awards: and is a valuable curriculum tool.
36 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources that employees have adequate access to drinking water.
Environmental Key partnerships have been developed with NWL to help the conservation of biodiversity on our sites.
Our contribution to the partnerships includes funding project ofcers and current partnerships include: N Northumberland Wildlife Trust Kielder and Bakethin : N Durham Wildlife Trust: N Essex Wildlife Trust Hanningeld : N Broads Authority Lound and Trinity Broads : and N Davy Down Trust.
Sustainable communities We have a continuing commitment to support projects and organisations within the areas in which we work and Just an hour employees at The Northumbrian Water Schools contribute to the long term sustainability Percy Hedley School, Newcastle, Awards, now in their third year in not only of our business, but also of the l-r Ash Harrison, Andy the northern region, are designed environment, society and communities Armstrong, Jayne Simpson, to recognise and celebrate the we serve.
Corporate responsibility is Dave Allen, Fay Pickup and Andrew Blenkharn.
achievements being made by our integral to how we do business and schools.
They cover both community and as part of this commitment we are curriculum based projects and honour working in different ways within our whole schools, classes and individuals.
communities to promote lasting change.
In our southern operating area, we We are working with partners to support Cash for Schools along create models of sustainable change with the Essex Chronicle.
This and also methods of evaluating their recognises excellence, with a focus on success, which can be replicated in environmental projects from primary other communities.
The focus has been and secondary schools, within the on health, education, economy and newspapers distribution area.
affordable housing as well as creating new ways to support areas helped A wide range of educational by our chosen charity WaterAid.
materials are available on our websites for children and teachers.
Health Healthworks has been open for nearly Partnerships two years now after we reached an Water for health agreement with County Durham Primary NWL is at the forefront in the water Care Trust PCT granting them a 99 industry in communicating the year lease on a redundant building health benets of drinking tap water.
We To date, over 244,000 has been worked in partnership with the PCT, provided for mains-fed water coolers the District of Easington Council, the in schools and around 600 have been Neighbourhood Management Pathnder supplied in nearly 300 schools.
We and other stakeholders to develop also continue to promote bottleservices for the local community in an free water coolers as a sustainable area where census records show one of alternative to bottle-fed coolers.
the worst health records in the country.
We also support the Water UK and Our commitment has gone beyond Unison led Water@work initiative providing the building.
There is a to encourage employers to ensure natural synergy between our own 37 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 4.
Operational performance continued Tony Blair with Just an hour employees at the launch of The Tony Blair Sports Foundation, l-r Mike Ciaraldi, Sharon Stewart, Simon May, Jane Morland, Jane Davison, Sharon Martin, Karen Scott and Leanne Clough.
Water for health campaign and the supported by sponsorship of Everyday Healthy Living agenda, so we devised Swim an innovative swimming new ways for NWL to work at a programme run by the Amateur strategic level with the partners of the Swimming Association to promote Healthworks to ensure the sustainability physical exercise and an arts programme of the building and its facilities for the run by Creative Partnerships to use community.
We contributed research, arts-based activities to change childrens marketing and communications support attitudes to eating and drinking, to improve awareness of the centre supported by research from Durham and helped with events to promote University.
Our contribution to the work healthy living, targeted at primary and of Healthworks is a unique approach secondary schools and day centres.
to tackling the poor long term health of the residents in Easington.
We sit on the steering group for Healthworks which achieved almost Sporting partnerships 10,000 visitors in its first year alone and NWL prides itself on being immersed in now provides more than 30 health and the community and working with a wide community support services.
It acts as and diverse range of sporting partners a community focal point where service is a natural extension of our Water for providers and community groups can Health campaign, which encourages come together to address issues that people to lead a healthy lifestyle.
affect the quality of life in the local Working with our sporting partners we community.
Facilities range from a juice support a diverse range of sports to get bar to a gym and information kiosks, people active as well as educating them some of which can be used in a privacy on healthy eating and good hydration.
setting with many more planned.
Through our partnerships we Healthworks has been so successful reach over 55,000 children and that the plans for phase two have been adults annually.
We provide: brought forward and will include a GP N links and networks to enable walk-in surgery thus securing the future sporting partners to get together of Healthworks for the community.
to share ideas and resources: N financial support of over 50,000 As part of the support, we developed per annum which then levered over the Oceans of Fun activity which is 80,000 from other sources: 38 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 N approximately 200 employee management arrangements.
The volunteer hours per annum: Academy will open in September 2009 N advice and marketing support and the company will use its business on programme development: networks to complement the specialism N bottled tap water, sports bottles which is business and enterprise.
or mains-fed bottle-free coolers to reinforce the importance of Economy drinking tap water to re-hydrate North East Enterprise Bond during sporting activities: and Our investment in the bond is a five year N help with fundraising and interest free loan, which helped fund raising the prole to attract the purchase and running of a number additional investment.
of Launch Pads mobile vehicles that tour the region to help trigger and We can generate wider support encourage enterprise start-ups to make for projects by adding our name real, long term change.
Working with and commitment to them and by creative enterprise promoters such encouraging others to get involved as Big Ideas, People into Enterprise thus generating additional funding and Newcastle Education Business sources for projects.
Our involvement Partnership, the bond serves as a catalyst acts as a key catalyst to raise to encourage people to set up their confidence that projects present real own business or social enterprise.
opportunities for the private sector.
NEL Growth Fund Education Our investment in the fund is to provide NWL is lead sponsor for Castle View start up capital in eligible high growth Enterprise Academy, a new and exciting businesses based in the north east of independent school for 11-16 year England.
The fund is managed by NEL olds serving the areas of Castletown, Capital the specialist venture capital Town End Farm and Hylton Castle in division of NEL Fund Managers.
The area contains some of the most deprived wards in the WaterAid region and 61%-80% of the school NWL has continued to raise funds and catchment population is categorised awareness for the work of WaterAid as being struggling families.
which brings sustainable water and sanitation solutions as well as hygiene Castle View Enterprise Academy will education to the poorest parts of Africa offer a new approach to education and and Asia.
The employee fundraising is one of three academies being created committee has raised more than 3 in Sunderland with the City Council as million, since 1997, with the help of co-sponsor.
It is a unique model under the company and last year focused the Building Schools for the Future its fundraising support on specic programme.
Our aim as lead sponsor projects in Malawi and Burkina Faso.
is to create a centre of excellence with a clear focus on raising standards of Community Foundations academic performance and enabling Community Foundations covering our every student to achieve their personal areas of supply hold endowment funds best in all areas of academy life within totalling nearly 1 million contributed a safe, secure and stable environment.
by NWL over the last 17 years.
These The project is now in its third year are long term investments with the and we have committed time and income from the funds used to support resources to support the Principal of community initiatives.
The Managing Director chosen by committees of our own chairs the Trust Board and employees employees 64 groups this year.
have helped in the design, build and 39 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
