PayPoint plc STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, Directors responsibility statement the Remuneration Committee Report and the financial We con rm to the best of our knowledge: statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
1. the financial statements prepared in accordance Company law requires the directors to prepare financial with International Financial Reporting Standards statements for each financial year.
The directors are as adopted by the European Union give a true required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards position and pro t or loss of the company and the IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also undertakings included in the consolidation as a elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in whole: and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly 2. the management report which is incorporated prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and into the Directors Report, includes a fair review Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial undertakings included in the consolidation taken statements present fairly for each financial year the companys as a whole, together with a description of the financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This principal risks and uncertainties they face.
requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of By order of the Board.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: Dominic Taylor present information, including accounting policies, in a Director manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 28 May 2009 understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in IFRS is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
