NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or 1.
Accounting policies after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
These financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis and on the policies set out below.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because it is the currency of the primary economic environment Basis of preparation in which the group operates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore Basis of consolidation comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
PayPoint plc the company acts as a holding company.
The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company and The directors are satis ed that the group has adequate entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries drawn up resources to continue in operational existence for the to March each year.
Control is achieved where the company foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from has the power to govern the financial and operating policies the date of this report.
The groups liquidity review can be of an entity in which it invests, so as to obtain bene ts from found in the Operating and Financial Review on page 10.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are groups going concern position is further discussed in the consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which Directors Report on page 18. control passed.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The group has adopted with effect from 31 March 2008, IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the The adoption of this interpretation has not led to any changes purchase method.
Investments are stated at cost less any in the groups accounting policies.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, following Standards and Interpretations which have not been and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to effective: the business combination.
The acquired identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for IFRS 1 amended Cost of an Investment in a recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at IAS 27 amended Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity the acquisition date, except for non-current assets that are or Associate classi ed as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 NonIFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, Conditions and Cancellations which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments Goodwill IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Statements cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs the identi able assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill Financial Statements is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
IAS 32 amended and Puttable Financial Instruments and IAS 1 amended Obligations Arising on Liquidation For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments each of the groups cash-generating units expected to bene t IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury share from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units transactions to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of real estate the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then Foreign Operation to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss IFRIC 39 Financial Instruments recoginition for goodwill is recognised immediately in pro t or loss and is and measurement: Eligible not reversed in a subsequent period.
hedged items The group does not consider that these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group when the respective standards or interpretations come into effect except for treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 comes into effect for 32 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 31 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 31 0 02 06 2009 11:59 2 06 2009 11:59
