NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or 1.
Accounting policies after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
These financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis and on the policies set out below.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because it is the currency of the primary economic environment Basis of preparation in which the group operates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore Basis of consolidation comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
PayPoint plc the company acts as a holding company.
The group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company and The directors are satis ed that the group has adequate entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries drawn up resources to continue in operational existence for the to March each year.
Control is achieved where the company foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from has the power to govern the financial and operating policies the date of this report.
The groups liquidity review can be of an entity in which it invests, so as to obtain bene ts from found in the Operating and Financial Review on page 10.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are groups going concern position is further discussed in the consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which Directors Report on page 18. control passed.
All intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The group has adopted with effect from 31 March 2008, IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the The adoption of this interpretation has not led to any changes purchase method.
Investments are stated at cost less any in the groups accounting policies.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, following Standards and Interpretations which have not been and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to effective: the business combination.
The acquired identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for IFRS 1 amended Cost of an Investment in a recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at IAS 27 amended Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity the acquisition date, except for non-current assets that are or Associate classi ed as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 NonIFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, Conditions and Cancellations which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments Goodwill IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Statements cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs the identi able assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill Financial Statements is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
IAS 32 amended and Puttable Financial Instruments and IAS 1 amended Obligations Arising on Liquidation For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments each of the groups cash-generating units expected to bene t IFRIC 11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury share from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units transactions to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of real estate the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then Foreign Operation to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss IFRIC 39 Financial Instruments recoginition for goodwill is recognised immediately in pro t or loss and is and measurement: Eligible not reversed in a subsequent period.
hedged items The group does not consider that these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group when the respective standards or interpretations come into effect except for treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 comes into effect for 32 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 31 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 31 0 02 06 2009 11:59 2 06 2009 11:59 PayPoint plc Impairment of tangible and intangible Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair assets other than goodwill value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, whether there is any indication that those assets have based upon independent advice that the shares will suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of either a the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to Monte Carlo simulation or Black Scholes model depending determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the upon the scheme.
The expected life used in the model has asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
intangible asset with an inde nite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial pre-tax discount rate that re ects current market assessments asset to that assets net carrying amount.
of the time value of money and the risks speci c to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been Taxation adjusted.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying pro t as reported in the income statement because it excludes amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an other years and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the The reversal of any impairment loss is limited by the net book balance sheet date.
value to which the relevant asset would have been reduced, had no impairment occurred.
A reversal of an impairment loss Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences is recognised as income immediately.
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue The provision is calculated using tax rates that have been Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred received or receivable and comprises the value of sales of tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that services excluding VAT in the normal course of business.
future taxable pro t will be available against which the tax will be realised.
Revenue and cost of sales are recorded according to the actual transactions that occur in a given period.
In Ireland and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Romania, PayPoint is principal in the supply chain for prepaid differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests mobile telephone top-ups mobile top-ups.
Accordingly, in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the revenue includes the sale price of the mobile top-ups and reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the cost of sales includes the cost of the mobile top-ups to the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable PayPoint.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the shareholders rights to receive payment have been each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no established.
longer probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it Cost of sales relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which Cost of sales includes agents commission, the cost of mobile case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
top-ups where PayPoint acts as principal in their purchase and sale, consumables, communications, maintenance, depreciation and eld service costs and in respect of PayPoint.
Foreign currency net, external processing charges levied by acquiring banks.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional All other costs are allocated to administrative costs.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are Pension costs retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
The group makes payments to a number of fide ned contribution Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that pension schemes.
The amounts charged to the pro t and loss are denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates account in respect of pension costs represent contributions prevailing at the date when fair value was determined.
Gains payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable and losses arising on retranslation are included in net pro t or in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either loss for the year, except for exchange differences arising on accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
