PayPoint plc Explanatory notes to certain of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting Resolutions 10 and 11: Adopting the Deferred Bonus Plan and LTIP The rules of the companys existing deferred share bonus plan and long-term incentive plan will both expire on 13 September 2009 the Existing Plans.
The terms of the DSB and the LTIP are materially similar to those of the Existing Plans.
The key terms of the DSB and the LTIP and the Remuneration Committees current intention as to the operation of the two plans are summarised on pages 50 to 53.
Resolution 12: Directors authority to allot shares By virtue of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the directors require the authority of shareholders of the company to allot shares or other relevant securities.
The resolution numbered 12 authorises the directors to make allotments of up to an additional 22,576,821 ordinary shares representing approximately one-third of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of this document.
This amount is in line with ABI guidelines.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2010, whichever is the sooner.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority proposed to be conferred pursuant to resolution 12.
Resolution 13: Authority for disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights By virtue of section 89 of the Act, any issue by the company of equity capital for cash made otherwise than to existing shareholders on a proportional basis requires the consent of shareholders of the company unless the company has obtained their authority under section 95 of the Act.
The resolution numbered 13 is for that purpose.
It authorises the directors to allot shares by way of rights issue or pursuant to an open offer or otherwise than strictly pro rata when the directors consider that it is expedient to do so and also allows them to issue for cash up to 3,386,523 ordinary shares representing approximately five per cent.
of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of this document other than on a pre-emptive basis.
Resolution 14: Authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares By virtue of section 166 of the Act, the company may make market purchases of its own ordinary shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
Under resolution 14, the directors seek to renew an annual authority to make market purchases of shares: each year the directors will seek to further renew this authority at the companys annual general meeting.
Any ordinary shares purchased under this authority would either be i cancelled immediately on completion of the purchase and the number of ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly: ii held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or iii transferred to an employee bene t trust for the satisfaction of awards under the companys existing share schemes.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which could be purchased pursuant to this authority is 10,152,796, being 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of this document.
Any repurchase of ordinary shares carried out by the company would be at a maximum price per ordinary share of 105 per cent.
of the average middle market price of such a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase, the price equal to the last independent trade or the highest current independent bid and at a minimum price equal to the nominal value.
The authority to repurchase ordinary shares will, if approved by shareholders, only be exercised after careful consideration by the directors and if such exercise would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
If approved at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the authority will expire no later than 15 months from the date on which the resolution is passed, or on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company to be held in 2010, whichever is he sooner.
