Derivatives and other financial instruments continued All sterling funds earn interest at the prevailing rate.
The f Market price risk funds are deposited on short-term deposits normally weekly The groups exposure to market price risk comprises interest or monthly or held in current accounts in cash.
Group funds are invested in money market seeks to maximise interest receipts within these parameters.
cash deposits with the objective of maintaining a balance Finance leases have been previously used to finance certain between accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
asset purchases within the group.
Interest is charged on these In practice, this has meant that no deposits were made with a maturity greater than 30 days during the year.
leases at xed contractual rates.
g Capital risk management Further analysis of the interest rate pro le of the xed rate financial liabilities as at 29 March 2009 and 30 March 2008 is provided below: The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for Weighted average interest rate on xed rate financial liabilities: other stakeholders.
2009 2008 % % h Credit risk Finance leases n a 4 The groups financial assets are cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
The groups credit risk is Weighted average period for which interest rate is xed: primarily attributable to its trade receivables and off balance 2009 2008 sheet agent debt to the extent that PayPoint bears the credit risk.
Clients, agents and merchants are credit checked to mitigate credit risk and in all new client contracts we have Finance leases n a 14 the right of set-off of funds collected against monies due.
The groups policy throughout the period ended 29 March i Financial instrument sensitivities 2009 regarding liquidity has been to maximise the return on funds placed on deposit whilst minimising the associated risk.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include deposits, trade receivables and trade payables.
Any changes in market The group had no financial liabilities at 29 March 2009 variables exchange rates and interest rates will have an other than short-term payables, such as trade payables and immaterial effect on these instruments.
Related party transactions To date, the group has not engaged in an active programme Remuneration of the directors, who are the key management of of foreign exchange risk management.
Given the size and the group, is disclosed in the audited part of the Remuneration nature of the groups non-sterling denominated balances, the Committee Report on pages 19 to 24. directors do not consider hedging necessary.
The groups currency exposures comprise those transactional In March 2008, the company invested 375,000 for 1.05% of the ordinary share capital of OB10 Limited, a company exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and that specialises in electronic invoicing.
In the view of the losses recognised in the income statement.
Such exposures directors, the cost of 375,000 represents the fair value of the comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the group that are not denominated in the operating or functional investment in shares.
David Newlands, Chairman of PayPoint currency of the operating unit involved.
At 29 March 2009 plc, is also Chairman of OB10 and a shareholder with direct and indirect holdings of 4.10% of the issued share capital and these exposures were 9,000 2008: 70,000. both Dominic Taylor and George Earle are directly or indirectly interested in 0.42% each.
d Borrowing facilities The group has a undrawn 35 million revolving loan facility The company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service with a remaining term of over two years.
transactions with joint ventures and associates and others in which the group has a material interest.
These transactions are e Fair value of financial assets and liabilities under terms that are no less favourable than those arranged The directors consider there to be no material difference with third parties.
These transactions are not considered to be signi cant.
between the book value and the fair value of the groups financial instruments at 29 March 2009.
