PayPoint plc NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders and will only be valid, if appropriate, must be deposited with the companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the annual general meeting.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the annual general meeting and voting in person.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting may appoint one or more proxies who need not be a member of the company to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, and in each case must be received by the company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment, or instruction, made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI speci cations and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments speci ed in the notice of annual general meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI does not make available special procedure in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is therefore the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, in order to be able to attend and vote at the annual general meeting or any adjournment thereof and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the register of members of the company by 6 pm on 6 July 2009 or 6 pm on the date being two days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Biographical details of the directors of the company are shown on page 16 of the 2009 annual report.
The issued share capital of the company as at 12 May 2009 was 67,728,431 ordinary shares of pence each, carrying one vote each.
The company holds 152,378 shares for the purpose of employee share schemes, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the company on 28 May 2009 was 67,577,265.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the company during normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: The directors service agreements and letters of appointment: Copies of the current articles of association of the company: The draft rules of the DSB: The draft rules of the LTIP.
Recommendation and voting intentions The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole and most likely to promote the success of the company for the bene t of those shareholders.
Those directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of the resolutions and unanimously recommend that you do so as well.
