Appendix to the Notice of annual general meeting Summary of the principal terms of the proposed PayPoint plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the PayPoint plc Long-Term Incentive Plan Introduction The terms of the PayPoint plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB and the PayPoint plc Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP together the Plans are materially the same as those of the existing deferred share bonus plan and the long-term incentive plan, which will both expire on 13 September 2009.
The main terms of the Plans are summarised below in sections A and B respectively and the features common to both of the Plans are set out in section C below.
Key features 1.1 The DSB is designed to operate in conjunction with the annual bonus arrangements operated by the company.
1.2 The DSB comprises two main elements: 1.2.
1 the voluntary deferral of a cash bonus: and 1.2.
2. the grant of conditional matching share awards Matching Awards in respect of a voluntary bonus deferral which may vest in due course, subject to performance conditions.
Bonus deferral 2.1 As is the case under the current plan, in each financial year of the company, the board may invite an eligible employee to elect to defer up to 50% of the bonus before tax which he becomes eligible to receive pursuant to the companys annual bonus arrangements.
2.2 The amount of deferred bonus will be applied to acquire shares Bonus Shares which will be held on his behalf in the companys employee bene t trust during a required holding period of not less than three years.
Matching Awards 3.1 The Remuneration Committee shall determine the extent of a Matching Award granted in respect of a bonus deferral, provided that the aggregate market value of the shares subject to a Matching Award on the date of grant will not exceed the value of the participants deferred bonus before applicable taxes.
This is the same matching limit applied under the current plan.
3.2 The existing deferred share bonus plan provides that the participants cash bonus, the value of Bonus Shares and Matching Shares taken together shall not exceed 100% of his salary.
Under the new plan, the Remuneration Committee intends as a matter of policy to retain this overall limit for participation in 2009 and subsequently to increase this overall limit to 150% of basic salary for participation from 2010 onwards.
This will allow for potential increase in bonus opportunity although no such increase is currently proposed.
Under the new plan, the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to operate the annual bonus and deferred plan by applying a greater or lower overall limit taking into account the appropriate level of total compensation for executives of the company.
3.3 All Matching Awards will be subject to a performance condition determined by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to market practice in the companys sector, the need to retain the best people and aligning executives interests with those of shareholders.
3.4 In normal circumstances, a Matching Award will not be capable of vesting prior to the third anniversary of grant subject to the participants continuing service.
In certain good leaver circumstances, an award may vest early as set out in paragraph 5 of section C below.
3.5 A Matching Award will lapse to the extent that any associated Bonus Shares are sold or transferred prior to the end of the applicable holding period.
Performance condition for Matching Awards 4.1 For the Matching Awards granted following commencement of the Plan and during the first financial year, the Remuneration Committee has resolved to retain the existing earnings per share EPS condition applicable to matching awards granted under the companys existing deferred bonus plan.
Matching Awards will vest in full if growth in EPS equals or exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus three per cent 3% per annum over the three financial years beginning with the year of grant.
4.2 Additionally, the Remuneration Committee must satisfy itself that the EPS growth over the performance period is a genuine re ection of the underlying financial performance of the company before the vesting of any Matching Awards.
50 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 49 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 49 0 02 06 2009 12:01 2 06 2009 12:01 PayPoint plc 4.3 In order to avoid the plan acting as a disincentive from making capital investments in the business which would be in the long term interest of the company but which could have a material impact on a particular years EPS gure, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust the EPS gure by reference to the business plan for a new capital investment, and its projected level of return, approved by the board.
This is designed to focus management on the successful implementation of investment strategies.
Further general provisions applicable to both plans are set out in section C below.
Key Features 1.1 The LTIP will be used to provide equity incentives over shares to selected employees including executive directors.
1.2 The LTIP provides bene ts in the form of free shares subject to challenging performance conditions.
Awards under the LTIP may be structured as either conditional awards which are capable of vesting on a pre-determined date Performance Share Awards or options exercisable over a xed period for a nominal exercise price Nil-Cost Options together LTIP Awards.
1.3 Unless stated otherwise, the same terms apply to Nil-Cost Options and LTIP Awards.
1.4 As is the case with the current long-term incentive plan, the Remuneration Committee currently intends to structure award as Performance Share Awards.
Individual limit LTIP Awards may not be granted over shares with an aggregate value measured at the time of grant of more than one hundred and fty per cent.
150% of the participants basic salary.
However, in exceptional circumstances, this limit may be exceeded but grant levels will be subject to acceptable market practice and remain below a maximum approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Exercise or vesting of options and Performance Share Awards 3.1 Nil-Cost Options may be exercised and Performance Share Awards shall vest subject to the following conditions: i the award holder remaining in service with the group for such service period as the Remuneration Committee shall determine being not less than 3 years from the date of grant: and ii satisfaction of appropriate and challenging performance conditions determined by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to market practice within the companys business sector and relating to the overall performance of the company.
3.2 Nil-Cost Options shall lapse on or prior to the tenth anniversary of grant to the extent unexercised.
Performance condition 4.1 The Remuneration Committee has determined that Performance Share Awards granted during the first financial year of commencement of the LTIP will vest subject to the achievement of a performance condition relating to growth in total shareholder return TSR over the three year period from the date of grant relative to the TSR growth over the same period of the companies included in the FTSE 250 Index on the date of grant excluding investment trusts the Comparator Group.
4.2 TSR is calculated by taking growth in share price and assuming that net dividends declared during the performance period are reinvested.
4.3 The TSR condition provides for vesting as follows: Company rank within the Comparator Group Percentage of Shares vesting within top quartile 100% at median 30% below median 0% 4.4 The number of shares which shall vest on performance by the company between the median and top quartiles shall be determined on a straight-line interpolation between the relevant percentages.
4.5 The Remuneration Committee may in its absolute discretion adopt such methodology for calculating the calibration of TSR as it determines to be appropriate.
4.6 Additionally, the Remuneration Committee will, in any event, satisfy itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine re ection of the underlying financial performance of the company before the vesting of any Performance Share Award.
51 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 50 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 50 0 02 06 2009 12:01 2 06 2009 12:01 C Provisions applicable to the DSB and the LTIP The following terms are applicable to DSB and Matching Awards under the DSB and the LTIP Awards together the Awards.
Operation and administration 1.1 The Plans shall be administered and operated by the board provided that the terms of Awards granted to directors and the exercise of any discretion in relation to a directors Award must be determined and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
1.2 The Remuneration Committee will oversee the Plans and determine applicable performance conditions having regard to market practice within the companys business sector and the need to incentivise and retain the best people whilst aligning their interests with those of the companys shareholders.
Eligibility Employees and executive directors of the group will be eligible but not entitled to participate in, and be granted Awards under, the Plans.
Participation will be at the boards and, in the case of directors, the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Grant 3.1 No payment is required for the grant of an Award.
3.2 Eligible employees may be granted Awards under the Plans: a during the period of 42 days following an announcement by the company of its interim or final results for any period: or b at any time that the board determines that exceptional circumstances have arisen such as a high level recruitment, provided that a grant shall not be made at a time when dealings are prohibited by the Model Code of the UK Listing Authority.
3.3 No Awards may be granted after the tenth anniversary of adoption of the Plans.
Plans Limits 4.1 Bonus Shares and Awards may be satis ed by the allotment or transfer of existing shares or by the issue of treasury shares.
4.2 At any time, in the case of each Plan, the total number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable pursuant to the Plan and options and awards granted in the previous ten years under all employees share schemes established by the company may not exceed ten per cent.
10% of the shares in issue at that time.
4.3 At any time, in the case of each Plan, the number of shares which have been issued or remain issuable pursuant to the Plan and any options or awards granted in the previous ten years under any executive discretionary share scheme established by the company may not exceed five per cent.
5% of the shares in issue at that time.
4.4 For the purposes of the above limits, treasury shares will be treated as issued and shares which are the subject of lapsed options or awards or long-term share awards granted prior to the admission of the companys shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange, shall be excluded.
Performance conditions 5.1 For future Awards, the committee will review whether the performance conditions remain appropriate and challenging taking into account for example the industrys outlook and shareholders interests.
The Remuneration Committee may adopt a revised condition, but one which will be no less demanding.
5.2 If an event occurs which causes the Remuneration Committee to consider that a performance condition applicable to a subsisting Award has become unfair or impractical, it may, in its discretion provided that such discretion is exercised fairly and reasonably amend the performance condition so that in the reasonable opinion of the committee it shall be no more or less dif cult to abide by or satisfy as when it was originally imposed or last amended.
Cessation of employment 6.1 If the participants employment ceases due to death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy or on a sale of the participants business or employing subsidiary out of the group or for any other reason speci cally permitted by the board, shares subject to an Award shall vest in due course subject to the performance condition to the extent applicable.
However the number of shares capable of vesting shall be pro-rated down to re ect the reduced service period.
The board may resolve to allow the Award to vest earlier based on the extent to which the performance condition to the extent applicable has been met up to the date of cessation or is deemed likely to be met over the full performance period.
6.2 If a participants employment with the group ceases for any other reason, his Award shall immediately lapse in full on his cessation.
52 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 51 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 51 0 02 06 2009 12:01 2 06 2009 12:01 PayPoint plc 6.3 If a participant ceases to bene cially own his Bonus Shares prior to the end of the relevant holding period, any Matching Award granted in association with such Bonus Shares will lapse pro-rata to the number of Bonus Shares so alienated.
Takeover, change of control and winding-up 7.1 In the event of a takeover, change of control or winding up, options shall become exercisable and Awards shall vest, based on the extent to which the Remuneration Committee determines that any performance condition has been met or is likely to be met over the full performance period and the number shall be pro-rated down to re ect the reduced service period.
7.2 In the event of an internal reorganisation of the company, all Awards will be automatically exchanged for awards subject to the terms of the Plan over an appropriate number of new securities.
Dividends The number of shares subject to an LTIP Award or a Matching Award may be increased to re ect any dividends declared by the company from the date of grant and until the shares are delivered.
The number of additional shares will re ect the net dividends which would have been received by the participant if he had been the owner of the shares subject to the Award to the extent such shares vest and will be determined using the ex-dividend value of the shares.
Voting and other rights 9.1 Prior to the exercise or vesting of Awards as appropriate, participants will have no voting rights in respect of the shares subject to the Award.
9.2 On the exercise or vesting of Awards as appropriate, application will be made to the UK Listing Authority for all such shares to be listed.
9.3 All Awards are non-transferable and non-pensionable.
Variation of share capital and special dividends In the event of any variation in the ordinary share capital of the company or any capitalisation of pro ts or reserves by way of any consolidation, sub-division or reduction of the share capital of the company and in respect of any discount element in any rights issue or any other variation in the share capital of the company or upon payment of a special dividend, the number of shares subject to an Award may be varied in such manner as the board considers appropriate.
Amendments 11.1 The Plans may be amended in any respect by the Remuneration Committee provided that the prior approval of the company in general meeting is required before amendments may be made to the material bene t of participants to any provisions relating to: a the persons who may be invited to participate in or be granted Awards under the Plans: b the overall and the individual limits on the number of shares in respect of which Awards may be granted: c the basis for determining participants entitlements to, and the material terms of, Awards to be provided under the Plans: d the adjustment of Awards in the event of a variation of capital: and e the rules relating to amendments to the Plans.
11.2 No amendment may be made to the rules of either of the Plans if it would adversely affect the rights of participants without the approval of participants holding Awards under the relevant Plan over the majority of shares.
11.3 However, minor amendments to the bene t of the administration of the Plans, to take account of changes in legislation, to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control, or regulatory treatment or to take account of a corporate transaction, may be made without the need for either of the approvals set out above where such amendments do not alter the basic principles of the Plans.
12. International When granting Awards, or issuing invitations to participate in the Plans, to employees resident outside the United Kingdom, the board may modify the terms of the Plans to take account of tax laws or other legal or regulatory requirements in the relevant country and, if considered necessary and expedient, adopt additional plans suitable for operation in the relevant country, provided that neither the terms of participation of, or grant of Awards to, such employees shall not be more favourable overall than the terms of participation of, or Awards granted to, employees resident in the United Kingdom and the Plans limits are not exceeded.
