On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups charged to the pro t and loss account over the period of the overseas operations are translated at exchange rates leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the remaining prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense balance of liability.
items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates uctuate signi cantly.
Exchange Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straightdifferences arising, if any, are classi ed as equity and line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not transferred to the groups translation reserve.
Such translation made on such a basis.
Bene ts received and receivable as differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the an incentive to sign an operating lease are similarly spread year of disposal of the operation.
on a straight line basis over the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is shorter than Intangible assets the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used.
On acquisitions the group has recognised contracts with Rentals received for ATMs from retail agents under operating merchants and technology, based on their estimated fair leases are credited to income on a straight line basis over the values as intangible assets.
Contracts with merchants are amortised on a straight line basis generally between one and five years and technology is Dividends amortised over its estimated useful economic life of ten years.
Final dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are approved by the companys Software development expenditure shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when declared.
The group develops computer software for internal use.
Software development expenditure on large projects is Own shares recognised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the PayPoint purchases own shares for the purpose of employee asset will generate future economic bene ts.
The costs that share based payment schemes.
Such shares are deducted are capitalised are the directly attributable costs necessary from equity and no pro t or loss is recognised on the to create and prepare the asset for operations.
development costs recognised as an intangible asset are amortised on a straight line basis over the useful life.
Other Cash and cash equivalents software costs are recognised in administrative expenses For the purpose of the cash ow statement, cash and cash when incurred.
equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and shortterm deposits maturing within three months and are subject to Property, plant and equipment insigni cant risk of changes in value.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation less provision for impairment.
Depreciation is Critical accounting judgements provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated The critical accounting judgements and key sources of residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimation uncertainty in the business are the valuation of expected useful life.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: goodwill 27.6 million 2008: 27.4 million and other intangible assets 2.0 million 2008: 2.7 million.
Management reviews freehold building - 50 years: goodwill for any impairment on an annual basis, see note 10. leasehold improvements over the life of the lease: Intangible assets are amortised over their economic useful terminals 5 years: life, see note 11.
The accounting policies for goodwill and automatic teller machines 4 years: and intangible assets are included above in this note 1. other classes of assets 3 years.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an 2.
Segmental reporting, net revenue asset is determined as the difference between the sales analysis, gross throughput and cost of proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is sales recognised as income.
i Segmental information Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable a Geographical segments value.
The group operates in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and Romania but the group has only one reportable Joint ventures geographical segment as fide ned in International A joint venture entity is an entity in which the group holds a Accounting Standard 14 Segment Reporting due to the long term interest and shares joint control over the strategic, fact that principally all operations occur in the UK.
financial and operating decisions with one or more other b Classes of business ventures under a contractual arrangement.
The groups share The group has one class of business, being payment of assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash ows are collection and distribution services.
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
ii Analysis of net revenues by sector, gross throughput and cost of sales Leases Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and Revenue comprises the value of sales excluding VAT of obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, services in the normal course of business and includes are capitalised as property, plant and equipment and are amounts billed to clients to be passed on to retail agents as depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their commission payable, the face value of mobile top-ups where useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease obligations PayPoint acts as principal and for PayPoint.
net bureau sales, are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are 34 2 213614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 33 13614 PAYPOINT P1 56 N. indd 33 0 02 06 2009 12:22 2 06 2009 12:22
