Section 5 Governance 61 Bonus share matching Real earnings per share Proportion of maximum matching growth per annum award released In 2008, shareholders approved the renewal of the Less than 3% 0% annual bonus share matching plan first approved by 3% 50% shareholders in 1998.
Between 3% and 5% Sliding scale between Invested and matching shares 50% and 100% The plan permits executive directors and senior 5% or more 100% executives around the company to invest up to 50% of any after-tax annual bonus in Pearson shares.
Performance condition Earnings per share growth is calculated using the If the participants invested shares are held, they are point-to-point method.
This method compares the matched subject to earnings per share growth over the adjusted earnings per share in the companys accounts three-year performance period on a gross basis i. e. the for the financial year ended prior to the grant date with maximum number of matching shares is equal to the the adjusted earnings per share for the financial year number of shares that could have been acquired with ending three years later and calculates the implicit the amount of the pre-tax annual bonus taken in compound annual growth rate over the period.
Real growth is calculated by reference to the UK 50% of the maximum matching award is released if Governments Retail Prices Index All Items.
We choose the companys adjusted earnings per share increase to test our earnings per share growth against UK inflation in real terms by 3% per annum compound over the over three years to measure the companys financial three-year performance period.
100% of the maximum progress over the period to which the entitlement to matching award is released if the companys adjusted matching shares relates.
earnings per share increase in real terms by 5% per annum compound over the same period.
Dividend shares Where matching shares vest in accordance with the For real growth in adjusted earnings per share of plan, a participant also receives dividend shares between 3% and 5% per annum compound, the rate representing the gross value of dividends that would at which the matching award is released is calculated have been paid on the matching shares during the according to a straight-line sliding scale.
