42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Our impact on society: Progress and plans continued 2 Valuing our people continued Target 2009 Progress Plan 2010 Increase our capacity to combine Ongoing.
Edexcel staff in London Continue to develop our capacity to training opportunities for our staff have partnered with a nearby school combine training opportunities for our with opportunities to partner with to provide career coaching and staff with opportunities to partner with schools, colleges and not-for-profits.
Students in schools, colleges and not-for-profits.
the UK now benefit from a Pearson Student Advisory Board, mirroring the established PSAB in the US to provide student feedback and input to Pearson, while offering mentoring and internship opportunities to talented students.
3 Sustainable business practice Continue to expand our network of Ongoing.
Our Green Teams are now Continue to expand and consolidate environmental teams across our flourishing in Pearson facilities across our network of environmental teams businesses.
Directly involving many the UK, the US, Canada, Australia, India across our businesses.
Hold training refresher seminars Achieved.
We are working with with key Pearson production relevant production staff at the departments on labour standards Financial Times to review processes and environmental issues.
Continue the process of becoming Achieved.
Pearson reached climate Having completed our 2007 a climate neutral company neutrality at the end of 2009 following commitment, we are considering our a two-year programme of investment next steps and will communicate and offset activity.
our longer term environmental commitment later this year.
Programmes of activity include: Highlights include: Programmes of activity will include: Extend Planet Pearson, a new website International roll-out of Planet Pearson Further development of the Planet designed by Pearson staff in the US, is ongoing, but the site is now Pearson website by Pearson staff.
available to staff in Canada and at many locations in the US.
Continue programme to ensure our Carried out substantial investment Continuation of our programme key buildings are energy efficient.
in server virtualisation across US, to make our key buildings energy Australia and the UK.
ISO 14001 environmental management system for businesses in the UK.
FT newspaper to assess feasibility of FT newspaper successfully set up its Completing the ISO 14001 setting up its own offset programme.
own offset programme by developing environmental management system the FT Rainforest in Costa Rica.
for our business in Australia.
Purchase green energy where Shifting to purchase green electricity available and affordable.
wherever possible in the UK and US, equivalent to 100,000 metric tonnes of CO2.
Generating renewable electricity via the solar panels on the roof of our Old Tappan site in New Jersey, US.
Continue to work with industry Ongoing.
Penguin UK has now Continue to work with industry partners to establish a methodology measured the carbon footprint of a partners to establish a methodology to assess the carbon footprint of medium size paperback book, and this to assess the carbon footprint of a book.
is in progress at Pearson Education.
