Section 5 Governance 55 office of the company or any other place decided by the determined by lot.
In addition, any director who would board, and is accompanied by the certificate for the not otherwise be required to retire shall retire by rotation share to which it relates and such other evidence as the at the third AGM after they were last re-elected.
board may reasonably require to show the right of the However, although not required by the Articles, the transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only board has resolved that for this year, and in future years, one class of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more all directors offer themselves for re-election annually, than four transferees.
in accordance with good corporate governance.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out The company may by ordinary resolution remove any using CREST and the board can refuse to register a director before the expiration of his her term of office.
transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with In addition, the board may terminate an agreement the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
or arrangement with any director for the provision of his her services to the company.
Variation of rights If at any time the capital of the company is divided into Powers of the directors different classes of shares, the special rights attaching Subject to the companys Articles, the Act and any to any class may be varied or revoked either: directions given by special resolution, the business of i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% the company will be managed by the board who may in nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or exercise all the powers of the company, including powers relating to the issue and or buying back of ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a shares by the company, subject to any statutory separate general meeting of the holders of the shares restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders of the class.
Without guidance to any special rights previously Significant agreements conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, The following significant agreements contain provisions deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, entitling the counterparties to exercise termination whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or other rights in the event of a change of control of or otherwise as the company may from time to time by the company: ordinary resolution determine.
Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility Appointment and replacement of directors agreement dated July 2004 as amended of which $92,000,000 matures in May 2011 and the balance Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors may of $1,658,000,000 matures in May 2012 between, be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or amongst others, the company, HSBC Bank plc as facility by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall agent and the banks and financial institutions named hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into facility agent must, upon a change of control, cancel account in determining the directors or the number of the total commitments of the lenders under such Credit directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Facilities and declare all outstanding advances, together The board may from time to time appoint one or more with accrued interest and any other amounts payable directors to hold executive office with the company for in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due such period subject to the provisions of the Act and and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control upon such terms as the board may decide and may occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
other company or one or more persons acting either At every AGM of the company, one third of the directors individually or in concert, obtains control as defined shall retire by rotation or, if their number is not a in Section 840 of the Income and Corporation Taxes multiple of three, the number nearest to one third.
The first directors to retire by rotation shall be those Shares acquired through the companys employee share who wish to retire and not offer themselves for replans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no election.
Any further directors so to retire shall be those special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the other directors subject to retirement by rotation of these plans set out the consequences of a change of who have been longest in office since they were last recontrol of the company.
elected but, as between persons who became or were last re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be
