Section 5 Governance 67 We summarise the service agreements that applied during 2009 and that continue to apply for 2010 as follows: Compensation on termination by the Name Date of agreement Notice periods company without notice or cause Glen Moreno 29 July 2005 12 months from the director: 100% of annual fees at the date 12 months from the company of termination Marjorie 27 February 2004 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date Scardino 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive David Bell 15 March 1996 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date stepped down 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of on 1 May 2009 pension and all other benefits and see note 50% of potential annual incentive Will Ethridge 26 February 2009 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and target annual incentive Rona Fairhead 24 January 2003 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive Robin Freestone 5 June 2006 Six months from the director: No contractual provisions 12 months from the company John Makinson 24 January 2003 Six months from the director: 100% of annual salary at the date 12 months from the company of termination, the annual cost of pension and all other benefits and 50% of potential annual incentive Note No compensation was paid to David Bell when he retired from the company on 31 December 2009.
Retirement benefits The pension arrangements for all the executive directors include life insurance cover while in employment, and We describe the retirement benefits for each of the entitlement to a pension in the event of ill-health or executive directors.
Details of directors pension disability.
A pension for their spouse and or dependants arrangements are set out in table 2 on page 72 of is also available on death.
In the US, the defined benefit arrangement is the Executive directors participate in the pension Pearson Inc. Pension Plan.
This plan provides a lump arrangements set up for Pearson employees.
sum convertible to a pension on retirement.
The lump Marjorie Scardino, Will Ethridge, John Makinson, sum accrued at 6% of capped compensation until Rona Fairhead and Robin Freestone will also have 31 December 2001 when further benefit accruals ceased other retirement arrangements because of the cap for most employees.
Employees who satisfied criteria of on the amount of benefits that can be provided from age and service at that time continued to accrue benefits the pension arrangements in the US and the UK.
Will Ethridge is included in this group and continues to accrue benefits under this plan.
The differences in the arrangements for the current Marjorie Scardino is not and her benefit accruals under executive directors reflect the different arrangements this plan ceased at the end of 2001. in the UK and the US and the changes in pension arrangements generally over the periods of their employment.
68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Report on directors remuneration continued The defined contribution arrangement in the US is a Marjorie Scardino 401 k plan.
At retirement, the account balances will be Marjorie Scardino participates in the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan and the approved 401 k plan.
In the event of death before retirement, the account balances will be used to provide Additional pension benefits are provided through an benefits for dependants.
unfunded unapproved defined contribution plan.
Notional annual contributions to this plan are based on In the UK, the pension plan is the Pearson Group a percentage of salary and a fixed cash amount indexPension Plan and executive directors participate in linked to inflation and the notional cash balance of this either the Final Pay or the Money Purchase 2003 section.
plan increases annually by a specified notional interest Normal retirement age is 62, but, subject to company rate.
The unfunded plan also provides the opportunity to consent, retirement is currently possible after age 50 convert a proportion of this notional cash account into a age 55 from April 2010.
In the Final Pay section, the notional share account reflecting the value of a number accrued pension is reduced on retirement prior to age of Pearson ordinary shares.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase the notional share account is determined by reference each year at 5% or the increase in the Index of Retail to the market value of Pearson shares at the date of Prices, if lower.
Pensions for a members spouse, conversion.
Part of the unfunded plan is replaced dependant children and or nominated financial by a funded defined contribution plan approved by dependant are payable in the event of death.
In the HM Revenue and Customs as a corresponding plan.
Money Purchase 2003 section the account balances are used to provide benefits at retirement.
In the event David Bell of death before retirement pensions for a members David Bell is drawing his pension from the Pearson spouse, dependant children and or nominated financial Group Pension Plan.
He began to receive his pension dependant are payable.
effective 30 September 2008 on attainment of Normal Retirement Age.
Members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who joined after May 1989 are subject to an upper limit of earnings Will Ethridge that can be used for pension purposes, known as the Will Ethridge is a member of the Pearson Inc. Pension earnings cap.
This limit, 108,600 as at 6 April 2006, Plan and the approved 401 k plan.
He also participates was abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
However the in an unfunded, unapproved Supplemental Executive Pearson Group Pension Plan has retained its own Retirement Plan SERP that provides an annual accrual cap, which will increase annually in line with the of 2% of final average earnings, less benefits accrued in UK Governments Index of Retail Prices All Items.
the Pearson Inc. Pension Plan and US Social Security.
Additional defined contribution benefits are provided through a funded, unapproved 401 k excess plan.
As a result of the UK Governments A-Day changes effective from April 2006, UK executive directors and Rona Fairhead other members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who Rona Fairhead is a member of the Pearson Group are, or become, affected by the lifetime allowance are Pension Plan.
Her pension accrual rate is 1 30th of provided with a cash supplement as an alternative to pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan further accrual of pension benefits on a basis that is earnings cap.
broadly cost neutral to the company.
In 2009, the only executive director to whom this was applicable was Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a David Bell.
He was offered the allowance alternative but Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme declined and continued as an active member of the plan.
Since April 2006, she has With his retirement there are no executive directors who received a taxable and non-pensionable cash received the offer of an allowance alternative.
supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
Robin Freestone Robin Freestone is a member of the Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
Company contributions are 16% of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap.
Until April 2006, the company also contributed to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS on his behalf.
Since April 2006, he has received a taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in replacement of the FURBS.
