Section 5 Governance 57 Summary of policy changes in 2009 The performance conditions that we select for the companys various performance-related annual or There were no changes to remuneration policy that took long-term incentive plans are therefore linked to the effect during 2009. companys strategic objectives set out above and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
We determine Remuneration policy whether or not targets have been met under the This report sets out the companys policy on directors companys various performance-related annual or remuneration that applies to executive directors for long-term incentive plans based on relevant internal 2010 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
information and input from external advisers.
The committee considers that a successful remuneration In light of the prevailing economic conditions and the policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of impact of these on the companys objectives and future changes in the companys business environment strategy, we continue to keep our remuneration policy and in remuneration practice.
Future reports, which will under review particularly with regard to its approach to continue to be subject to shareholder approval, will annual and long-term incentives.
describe any changes in this policy.
Our starting point continues to be that total Pearsons goal remains unchanged: to help people remuneration base compensation plus annual and make progress in their lives and thrive in a brain-based long-term incentives should reward both shortand economy through learning.
The basic strategy to achieve long-term results, delivering competitive rewards for that goal is pursued by all Pearsons businesses in some target performance, but outstanding rewards for shape or form and has four fundamental parts: long-term exceptional company performance.
organic growth investment in content: adding services to our content: international expansion: and efficiency.
Generally speaking, we have concluded that no fundamental changes are required to the performance One of the most important measures of our strategy measures used in the companys annual and long-term is, of course, financial performance.
Here, our goal is incentive plans.
to produce consistent growth in three key financial measures adjusted earnings per share, cash flow We will however continue to give careful consideration to and return on invested capital.
We believe those are, the selection and weighting of these measures and the in concert, good indicators that we are building the targets that apply taking into account the companys long-term value of Pearson.
So those measures or shortand longer term strategy and risk and the impact others that contribute to them, such as operating on the sustainability and future development of margins and working capital form the basis of our the company.
annual budgets and plans, and the basis for bonuses and long-term incentives.
