86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in 2009 Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group are international media IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, businesses covering education, business information effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or and consumer publishing.
The amendments require a number of presentational changes including the requirement to The company is a limited liability company incorporated present a statement of changes in equity as a primary and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered statement and the introduction of the statement of office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
comprehensive income, which presents all items The company has its primary listing on the London of recognised income and expense, either in one Stock Exchange but is also listed on the New York statement or in two linked statements.
have elected to present two statements.
These consolidated financial statements were approved Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, effective for for issue by the board of directors on 10 March 2010. annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires capitalisation of 1.
Accounting policies borrowing costs that relate to qualifying assets ones The principal accounting policies applied in the that take a substantial amount of time to get ready for preparation of these consolidated financial statements use or sale, with the exception of assets measured at are set out below.
fair value or inventories manufactured in large quantities or on a repetitive basis.
Basis of preparation that this amendment has no impact on the Groups These consolidated financial statements have been financial statements as there are currently no material prepared in accordance with International Financial qualifying assets.
Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU Disclosures, effective for annual reporting periods and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 and or beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments the Companies Act 2006 as applicable applicable to require additional disclosures about fair value companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated measurement and liquidity risk.
For financial instruments financial statements are also prepared in accordance measured at fair value in the balance sheet disclosure is with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting required, based on observability of inputs, into a three Standards Board IASB.
In respect of the accounting level fair value hierarchy.
In addition, a reconciliation standards applicable to the Group there is no difference between the opening and closing balance for level 3 fair between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group value measurements must be presented, along with transitioned from UK GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. significant transfers between the levels of the hierarchy.
The amendments also clarify the scope of liquidity risk These consolidated financial statements have been disclosures.
Fair value measurement and liquidity risk prepared under the historical cost convention as disclosures are detailed in note 19. modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, effective to fair value.
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions and that all cancellations, whether Group or counterparty, should be accounted for the same way.
Management have determined that this does not have any impact on the financial statements for the Group.
