Section 5 Governance 53 The audit committee receives regular reports The directors are responsible for the maintenance summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditor.
and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and A full statement of the fees for audit and services is dissemination of financial statements may differ from provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 99. legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions Statement of directors responsibilities are listed on pages 44 and 45, confirm that to the best of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial their knowledge and belief: statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and parent company The Group financial statements, prepared in accordance financial statements in accordance with International with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of European Union.
Under company law the directors must the Group and company: and not approve the financial statements unless they are The directors report contained in the annual report satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of includes a fair review of the development and affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or performance of the business and the position of the loss of the Group for that period.
company and Group, together with a description In preparing these financial statements, the directors are of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
required to: The directors also confirm that, for all directors in office Select suitable accounting policies and then apply at the date of this report: them consistently: a so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant Make judgments and accounting estimates that are audit information of which the companys auditors are reasonable and prudent: unaware: and State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have as adopted by the European Union or disclose and taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of explain any material departures: and any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Approved by the board on 10 March 2010 and signed on company and or the Group will continue in business.
its behalf by The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Philip Hoffman Secretary of the company and the Group.
This enables them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
