Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 4 Our impact on society 43 3 Sustainable business practice continued Target 2009 Progress Plan 2010 Maintain our position in the key Achieved.
Pearson retained its Maintain our position in the key indices of social responsibility.
position as Global Leader for the indices of social responsibility.
Media Sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and its Platinum rating in the Business in the Community Responsibility Index.
New target Establish a total carbon footprint identification initiative for our company.
New target Establish FSC chain of custody certification for our paper use in our North American businesses.
4 Active citizenship Target 2009 Progress Plan 2010 Increase the number of children Achieved.
Booktime: 750,000 book Increase the impact on children reached through these campaigns, packs donated to children in schools and adults reached through these expanding Booktime once again and across England, Scotland and campaigns, focusing Booktime rolling out Jumpstarts Read for the Northern Ireland.
funds more strategically and rolling Record programme internationally.
out Jumpstart's Read for the Record Read for the Record: Pearson people programme further internationally.
around the world again helped set a new world record for the largest shared reading experience for Jumpstarts 2009 campaign.
Shared more than two million books and raised $1.5m for Jumpstarts year-round operations, helping to draw national attention to the US early education crisis.
Increase the number of interventions Achieved.
The FT held its first Increase the number of interventions we make to facilitate constructive conference on corporate responsibility we make to facilitate constructive debate on key contemporary issues and investing in March 2009 the FT debate on key contemporary issues Sustainable Business and Responsible Investing Conference in New York.
Plans are underway for a live panel debate at Pearsons London head office on the responsibility priorities for a 21st century media organisation, to be streamed in real-time via an interactive social media platform.
New target Launch the Pearson Prize in the US, identifying students currently in a twoor four-year college university who are working on specific projects that support their Target ongoing institution and or local communities, and providing a package of financial Target achieved and in-kind support to help these New target for 2010 students finish their college careers.
i For a more in-depth look back over our activity as a corporate citizen in 2009, please go to our Always learning: Our impact on society 2009 report www.
