Section 5 Governance 59 For benchmarking purposes, the main elements of Annual incentives remuneration are valued as follows: The committee establishes the annual incentive plans for the executive directors and the chief executives of Element of remuneration Valuation the companys principal operating companies, including Base salary Actual base salary performance measures and targets.
These plans Annual incentive Target level of annual incentive then become the basis of the annual incentive plans Bonus share matching Expected value of matching below the level of the principal operating companies, award based on 50% of target particularly with regard to the performance measures level of annual incentive used and the relationship between the incentive plan Long-term incentive Expected value of long-term targets and the relevant business unit operating plans.
incentive award We will continue to review the annual incentive plans Pension and benefits Cost to company of providing each year and to revise the performance measures, pension and other benefits targets and individual incentive opportunities in light of Total remuneration Sum of all elements current conditions.
We will continue to disclose details of of remuneration the operation of the annual incentive plans in the report on directors remuneration each year.
Expected value means the net present value of awards taking into account the vesting schedule, risk of Annual incentive payments do not form part of forfeiture and the probability that any performance pensionable earnings.
Performance measures The financial performance measures relate to the Base salary companys main drivers of business performance at The committees normal policy is to review salaries both the corporate, operating company and business annually taking into account the remuneration unit level.
Performance is measured separately for each arrangements and the level of increases applicable to item.
For each performance measure, the committee employees across the rest of the company as a whole.
establishes threshold, target and maximum levels of performance for different levels of payout.
For 2010, the company is reviewing salaries for employees taking into account the location and A proportion which for 2010 may be up to 30% of the economic conditions of each business.
For executive total annual incentive opportunity for the executive directors, and other members of the Pearson directors and other members of the Pearson Management Committee, we have reviewed base Management Committee is based on performance salaries in line with the general level of increases against personal objectives as agreed with the chief elsewhere.
Full details of the executive directors executive or, in the case of the chief executive, the remuneration for 2010 will be set out in the report on chairman.
These comprise functional, operational, directors remuneration for 2010. strategic and non-financial objectives relevant to the executives specific areas of responsibility and inter alia The committee reviewed executive directors base may include objectives relating to environmental, social salaries for 2009 at the end of 2008.
In light of the then and governance issues.
prevailing economic conditions and consistent with the action taken across the company to control costs and For 2010, the principal financial performance measures minimise job losses, there were no increases in base are: sales: operating profit for the operating companies salary for the executive directors and other members and growth in underlying earnings per share for of the Pearson Management Committee for 2009. continuing operations at constant exchange rates for Full details of the executive directors 2009 remuneration Pearson plc : average working capital as a ratio to sales: are set out in table 1 on page 71. and operating cash flow.
The selection and weighting of performance measures takes into account the strategic Allowances and benefits objectives and the business priorities relevant to each The companys policy is that benefit programmes should operating company and to Pearson overall each year.
be competitive in the context of the local labour market, Incentive opportunities but as an international company we require executives to In each years report on directors remuneration, operate worldwide and recognise that recruitment also we describe any changes to target and maximum operates worldwide.
incentive opportunities for the chief executive and the other executive directors for the year ahead.
60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Report on directors remuneration continued For 2010, there is no change to the target annual payouts up or down if it believes exceptional factors incentive opportunity for the chief executive which warrant doing so.
The committee may also award remains at 100% of base salary.
We reviewed the chief individual discretionary incentive payments although no executives maximum opportunity in light of competitive such payments were awarded in respect of 2009. market data and practice elsewhere in the company and For 2009, total annual incentive opportunities were have increased it to 180% of base salary 150% in 2009. based on Pearson plc and operating company financial For the other members of the Pearson Management performance and performance against personal Committee, we have reviewed individual incentive objectives as follows: opportunities taking into account their membership of Operating that committee and the contribution of their respective company Personal Name Pearson plc companies objectives businesses or role to Pearsons overall financial goals.
In the case of the executive directors, the target Marjorie Scardino 100% individual incentive opportunity is in a range up to 87.5% David Bell 75% 25% of base salary.
The maximum opportunity remains at Will Ethridge 30% 60% 10% twice target as in 2009.
Rona Fairhead 30% 60% 10% The annual incentive plans are discretionary and the Robin Freestone 90% 10% committee reserves the right to make adjustments to John Makinson 30% 60% 10% 2009 performance Performance in 2009 against the relevant incentive plans was as follows: Performance against incentive plan Between Between Below threshold target and Above Incentive plan Performance measure threshold and target maximum maximum Pearson plc Sales Underlying growth in adjusted earnings per share at constant exchange rates Average working capital to sales ratio Operating cash flow Sales Pearson Education North America Operating profit Average working capital to sales ratio Operating cash flow FT Publishing Sales Operating profit Operating cash flow Pearson VUE Sales Operating profit Average working capital to sales ratio Operating cash flow Penguin Group Sales Operating profit Operating margin Average working capital to sales ratio Operating cash flow Details of actual payouts for 2009 are set out in table 1 on page 71.
