54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Board governance continued Additional information for shareholders shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he she can value assets and determine how the division shall be carried Amendment to Articles of Association out as between the members or different classes of Any amendments to the Articles of Association the members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or Articles of the company may be made in accordance any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act benefit of the members.
by way of a special resolution.
Voting at general meetings Rights attaching to shares Any form of proxy sent by the company to shareholders The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to in the companys Articles.
A shareholder whose name the company, whether in written or electronic form, not appears on the companys register of members can less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding choose whether his her shares are evidenced by share the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person certificates i. e. in certificated form or held electronically named in the appointment proposes to vote.
i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred attend any general meeting of the company and, by being a shareholder if he she or any person with an on a show of hands, every shareholder or his her interest in shares has been sent a notice under section representative who is present at a general meeting has 793 of the Act which confers upon public companies the one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of power to require information with respect to interests in which they are the registered holder.
A resolution put to their voting shares and he she or any interested person the vote at a general meeting is decided on a show of failed to supply the company with the information hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded.
A poll The board may also decide, where the relevant can be demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal at least three shareholders or their representatives value of the issued shares of that class, that no dividend present in person and having the right to vote, or is payable in respect of those default shares and that no by any shareholders or their representatives present transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their Pearson operates two employee benefit trusts to hold representatives present in person holding ordinary shares, pending employees becoming entitled shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up to them under the companys employee share plans.
of at least 10% of the total sum paid up on all There were 9,664,922 shares so held as at 31 December ordinary shares.
Each trust has an independent trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
At this years AGM voting will be conducted on a poll.
A dividend waiver operates on the shares held in Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing these trusts.
an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding cannot exceed the amount recommended by the board.
arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares The board can pay interim dividends on any class of on behalf of employees.
There were 2,747,925 shares so shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the held as at 31 December 2009.
The trustees holding these periods they decide, provided the distributable profits shares seek voting instructions from the employee as of the company justify such payment.
The board may, if beneficial owner, and voting rights are not exercised if no authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, instructions are given.
offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, Transfer of shares instead of their cash dividend.
The board may refuse to register a transfer of a Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that after it became due for payment will be forfeited and the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the will then belong to the company, unless the directors company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless i the instrument of transfer is If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered sanction of a special resolution passed by the
