86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in 2009 Pearson plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group are international media IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, businesses covering education, business information effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or and consumer publishing.
The amendments require a number of presentational changes including the requirement to The company is a limited liability company incorporated present a statement of changes in equity as a primary and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered statement and the introduction of the statement of office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
comprehensive income, which presents all items The company has its primary listing on the London of recognised income and expense, either in one Stock Exchange but is also listed on the New York statement or in two linked statements.
have elected to present two statements.
These consolidated financial statements were approved Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, effective for for issue by the board of directors on 10 March 2010. annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires capitalisation of 1.
Accounting policies borrowing costs that relate to qualifying assets ones The principal accounting policies applied in the that take a substantial amount of time to get ready for preparation of these consolidated financial statements use or sale, with the exception of assets measured at are set out below.
fair value or inventories manufactured in large quantities or on a repetitive basis.
Basis of preparation that this amendment has no impact on the Groups These consolidated financial statements have been financial statements as there are currently no material prepared in accordance with International Financial qualifying assets.
Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU Disclosures, effective for annual reporting periods and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 and or beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments the Companies Act 2006 as applicable applicable to require additional disclosures about fair value companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated measurement and liquidity risk.
For financial instruments financial statements are also prepared in accordance measured at fair value in the balance sheet disclosure is with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting required, based on observability of inputs, into a three Standards Board IASB.
In respect of the accounting level fair value hierarchy.
In addition, a reconciliation standards applicable to the Group there is no difference between the opening and closing balance for level 3 fair between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
The Group value measurements must be presented, along with transitioned from UK GAAP to IFRS on 1 January 2003. significant transfers between the levels of the hierarchy.
The amendments also clarify the scope of liquidity risk These consolidated financial statements have been disclosures.
Fair value measurement and liquidity risk prepared under the historical cost convention as disclosures are detailed in note 19. modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, effective to fair value.
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions and that all cancellations, whether Group or counterparty, should be accounted for the same way.
Management have determined that this does not have any impact on the financial statements for the Group.
Accounting policies continued In the 2008 accounts the Group early adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for annual reporting a.
Basis of preparation continued periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective in 2009 continued The standard requires a management approach to reporting segmental information and six reporting Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: segments have been identified under IFRS 8 as detailed Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial in note 2.
Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, effective for annual IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July The amendments require puttable financial instruments 2008.
IFRIC 13 explains how entities that grant loyalty or investments that impose on the entity an obligation to award credit to customers should account for their another party in respect of a share of net assets only on obligations to provide free or discounted goods or liquidation to be classified as equity.
Management have services to customers who redeem award credits.
As no determined that this has no impact on the financial Group entities operate a customer loyalty programme statements of the Group.
management have assessed that IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, Recognition and Measurement, effective for annual effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or reporting periods ending on or after 30 June 2009. after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 15 addresses the accounting The amendments clarify the position on embedded by entities that undertake the construction of real estate derivatives following the earlier amendments to IAS 39 with guidance on determining whether an agreement for regarding reclassification.
The amendment to IFRIC 9 the construction of real estate falls within the scope of requires an entity to assess whether an embedded IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue.
As no derivative must be separated from a host contract when Group entities undertake the construction of real estate the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the management have assessed that IFRIC 15 is not relevant fair value through profit or loss category.
states that if an embedded derivative cannot be reliably IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in Foreign measured, the entire hybrid instrument must remain classified as at fair value through profit and loss.
Operations, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 provides Management have determined this has no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
guidance on net investment hedging including which foreign currency risks within the Group qualify for Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards 2008, hedging and where the hedging investments can be held mostly effective for annual reporting periods beginning within the Group.
Management have assessed that this on or after 1 January 2009.
This is the first standard has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
published under the IASBs annual improvements process which is designed to deal with non-urgent minor amendments to standards.
Of the 35 amendments issued, the adoption of the following amendment resulted in a change to accounting policy but did not have any significant impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible Assets require expenditure on advertising and promotional activities to be recognised as an expense when the Group either has the right to access the goods or has received the service, rather than when the Group uses the goods or service.
Other amendments did not have any impact on the accounting policies or financial statements of the Group.
88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. a.
Basis of preparation continued The new standard details the requirements for the 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to classification and measurement of financial assets.
published standards that are not yet effective The Group has not early adopted the following new Improvements to IFRSs 2009 effective dates vary upon the amendment.
This is the second set of pronouncements that are not yet effective: amendments published under the IASBs annual IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and improvements process and incorporates minor amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate amendments to 12 standards and interpretations.
Financial Statements, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers effective for transfers of assets from customers received on or after The amendments affect the accounting for business combinations, including the requirement to re-measure 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 states that when an item of property, plant and equipment is received from a customer and it the fair value of previously held interests in step acquisitions with any gain or loss arising being meets the definition of an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the recipient should recognise the asset recognised in the income statement, the requirement to expense acquisition costs and the requirement to at its fair value at the date of transfer and recognise the credit in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
recognise adjustments to contingent consideration in the income statement.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual reporting periods Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, effective for annual beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
IFRIC 19 clarifies accounting by entities issuing equity instruments to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. extinguish all or part of a financial liability.
These amendments clarify that inflation may only be hedged where changes in inflation are a specified Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum portion of cash flows of a financial instrument, and also Funding Requirement, effective for annual reporting clarify hedging with options.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
This amendment remedies a consequence of IFRIC 14 Amendments to IAS 24 Related Parties, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January where, in certain circumstances, an entity was not permitted to recognise prepayments of a minimum 2011.
The amendments simplify disclosure for government related entities and clarify the definition funding requirement as an asset.
Management are currently assessing the impact of these Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: Group new standards, interpretations and amendments on the Groups financial statements.
cash-settled share-based payment transactions, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or In addition, management has assessed the relevance after 1 January 2010.
This amendment clarifies the scope of the following interpretation with respect to the Groups and accounting for group cash-settled share-based operations: payment transactions.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment clarifies that rights, options or warrants issued to a acquire a fixed number of an entitys own non-derivative equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency are classified as equity instruments provided the offer is made pro-rata to all existing owners of the same class of the entitys own non-derivative equity instruments.
Accounting policies continued Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed a.
Basis of preparation continued in a business combination are measured initially at 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to their fair values at the acquisition date.
For material published standards that are not yet effective continued acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, assets is determined by an external, independent valuer.
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 17 provides guidance on the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity is recorded as goodwill.
See note 1e 1 for the accounting distributes assets other than cash as dividends, policy on goodwill.
including recognition upon authorisation and 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which measurement at fair value of assets distributed, with the Group has the power to govern the financial any difference between fair value and carrying value of and operating policies generally accompanying a these assets being recognised in the income statement shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
when an entity settles the dividend payable.
This does Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on not apply to distributions of non-cash assets under which control is transferred to the Group and are common control.
This interpretation will have no impact fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
on the Groups financial statements as the Group does not currently distribute non-cash assets.
Transactions with minority interests Transactions with minority interests are treated as transactions 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements with shareholders.
Any surplus or deficit arising from disposals to a minority interest is recorded in equity.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting For purchases from a minority interest, the difference between consideration paid and the relevant share assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups acquired of the carrying value of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
The areas requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions 4.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are and estimates are significant to the consolidated entities in which the Group holds an interest on a longfinancial statements, are discussed in the relevant term basis and which are jointly controlled, with one or accounting policies under the following headings: more other venturers, under a contractual arrangement.
Associates are entities over which the Group has Intangible assets: Goodwill significant influence but not the power to control the Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets financial and operating policies, generally accompanying Royalty advances a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting Taxation rights.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are Employee benefits: Pension obligations accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
Revenue recognition The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates b.
Consolidation post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the 1. Business combinations The purchase method of income statement and its share of post-acquisition accounting is used to account for the acquisition of movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cost of an acquisition is The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity results is recognised as a component of operating profit instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed as these operations form part of the core publishing at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable business of the Group and are an integral part of to the acquisition.
The cumulative postWhere the settlement of consideration payable is acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying deferred, or contingent on future events, the fair value of amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of the deferred component is determined by discounting losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds the amount payable or probable to be paid to its present its interest in the joint venture or associate, the Group value using an appropriate discount rate.
does not recognise further losses, unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
90 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The principal overseas currency for the Group is the US dollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling c. Foreign currency translation was $1.57 2008: $1.85 and the year end rate was 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included $1.61 2008: $1.44.
in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary d. Property, plant and equipment economic environment in which the entity operates Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical the functional currency.
The consolidated financial cost less depreciation.
statements are presented in sterling, which is the Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the companys functional and presentation currency.
straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useful lives 2.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency as follows: transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of Buildings freehold : 2050 years the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease resulting from the settlement of such transactions Plant and equipment: 310 years and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, currencies are recognised in the income statement, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
except when deferred in equity as qualifying net The carrying value of an asset is written down to its investment hedges.
recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset 3.
Group companies The results and financial position is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
of all Group companies that have a functional currency e. Intangible assets different from the presentation currency are translated 1.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost into the presentation currency as follows: of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary, at the date of the balance sheet: associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in ii income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates: intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised associates and joint ventures.
as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and On consolidation, exchange differences arising from carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, An impairment loss is recognised to the extent and of borrowings and other currency instruments that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the designated as hedges of such investments, are taken recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the to shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific interhigher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
company loan balances, which are not intended to These calculations require the use of estimates and be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net significant management judgement.
When a foreign operation is sold, such the key assumptions and sensitivities is included in exchange differences are recognised in the income note 11.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is At the date of transition to IFRS the cumulative made to those cash-generating units that are expected translation differences in respect of foreign operations to benefit from the business combination in which the have been deemed to be zero.
Any gains and losses on disposals of foreign operations Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the will exclude translation differences that arose prior to the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Accounting policies continued The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as part of cash generated from operations in e. Intangible assets continued the cash flow statement see note 31.
Goodwill continued The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied assets and the determination of the amortisation profile retrospectively to business combinations before the involve a significant degree of judgement based on date of transition to IFRS.
Subject to the transition historical trends and management estimation of future adjustments to IFRS required by IFRS 1, the accounting potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile could for business combinations before the date of transition result in excess amounts being carried forward as has been grandfathered.
intangible assets that would otherwise have been 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for written off to the income statement in an earlier period.
internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired Reviews are performed regularly to estimate in material business combinations is capitalised at recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying its fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20.
Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between three and f. Other financial assets eight years.
Other financial assets, designated as available for sale investments, are non-derivative financial assets 3.
Internally developed software Internal and external measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the fair costs incurred during the preliminary stage of developing value are recorded in equity in the fair value reserve.
computer software for internal use are expensed as On the subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair incurred.
Internal and external costs incurred to develop value gains or losses are taken to the income statement.
computer software for internal use during the application development stage are capitalised if the Group expects g. Inventories economic benefits from the development.
Capitalisation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net in the application development stage begins once the realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in first Group can reliably measure the expenditure attributable out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work to the software development and has demonstrated in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, its intention to complete and use the software.
Internally other direct costs and related production overheads.
developed software is amortised on a straight-line basis Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in over its estimated useful life of between three the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs and eight years.
necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for slow moving and obsolete stock.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include customer lists and relationships, trademarks h. Royalty advances and brands, publishing rights, content and technology.
Advances of royalties to authors are included within These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and trade and other receivables when the advance is paid included in intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired less any provision required to adjust the advance to in material business combinations are capitalised at its net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty their fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
advances relies on a degree of management judgement Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated in determining the profitability of individual author useful lives of between two and 20 years, using a contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author depreciation method that reflects the pattern of their contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect consumption.
on operating profits as these excess amounts will be written off.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets represent direct costs incurred in the development The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an of educational programmes and titles prior to their annual detailed management review of the age of the publication.
These costs are recognised as current advance, the future sales projections for new authors intangible assets where the title will generate probable and prior sales history of repeat authors.
The royalty future economic benefits and costs can be measured advance is expensed at the contracted or effective reliably.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon royalty rate as the related revenues are earned.
publication of the title over estimated economic lives Royalty advances which will be consumed within of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected one year are held in current assets.
Royalty advances operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion which will be consumed after one year are held in of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
92 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Newspaper development costs Investment in the development of newspaper titles m. Derivative financial instruments consists of measures to increase the volume and Derivatives are recognised at fair value and re-measured geographical spread of circulation.
The measures at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives include additional and enhanced editorial content, is determined by using market data and the use of extended distribution and remote printing.
These costs established estimation techniques such as discounted are expensed as incurred as they do not meet the criteria cash flow and option valuation models.
The Group under IAS 38 Intangible Assets to be capitalised as designates certain of the derivative instruments within intangible assets.
its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in j.
Cash and cash equivalents foreign operations net investment hedges.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are other short-term highly liquid investments with original designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
in the income statement, together with any changes in Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are liabilities in the balance sheet.
attributable to the hedged risk.
Short-term deposits and marketable securities with The effective portion of changes in the fair value maturities of greater than three months do not qualify of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these as net investment hedges are recognised in other financial instruments are classified as cash flows from comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated financing activities in the cash flow statement as these in equity are included in the income statement when the amounts are used to offset the borrowings of the Group.
corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised k. Share capital immediately in finance income or finance costs in the Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated of new shares or options are shown in equity as a as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
at fair value and any movement in their fair value is Where any Group company purchases the companys recognised immediately in finance income or finance equity share capital treasury shares the consideration costs in the income statement.
paid, including any directly attributable incremental n. Taxation costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to be attributable to the companys equity holders until paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, sheet date.
any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs and the related income Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the method, on temporary differences arising between the companys equity holders.
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax l. Borrowings rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost the deferred income tax liability is settled.
with any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value being Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it recognised in the income statement over the period is probable that future taxable profit will be available of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying where it is intended that those undistributed earnings value in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
will not be remitted in the foreseeable future.
Accounting policies continued The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is included in the income statement as an n. Taxation continued operating cost.
The unwinding of the discount rate on the Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme statement, except when the tax relates to items charged assets are presented as finance costs or finance income.
or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also recognised in Obligations for contributions to defined contribution equity or other comprehensive income.
pension plans are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement as incurred.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance benefits provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions are accrued over the period of employment, using a and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination similar accounting methodology as for defined benefit is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The liabilities and costs relating to The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit material other post-retirement obligations are assessed issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters 3.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, shares granted under the Groups share and option such differences will impact the income tax and deferred plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking tax provisions in the period in which such determination into account the Groups best estimate of the number is made.
of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
The fair value of the options In particular, significant judgement is used when granted is measured using an option model that is assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should most appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares be recognised with consideration given to the timing and awarded is measured using the share price at the date level of future taxable income together with any future of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
Any proceeds received are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Employee benefits The Group has applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment 1.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and retrospectively to all options granted but not fully obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents vested at the date of transition to IFRS.
the net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the p. Provisions balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present calculated annually by independent actuaries using the legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, projected unit credit method.
The present value of the it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting will be required to settle the obligation and the amount estimated future cash flows using yields on high can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted to quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity present value where the effect is material.
approximating the terms of the related liability.
The Group recognises a provision for deferred The determination of the pension cost and defined consideration when the payment of the deferred benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit consideration is probable.
pension schemes depends on the selection of certain The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation contracts when the expected benefits to be derived rate, salary growth, longevity and expected return on from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs scheme assets.
of meeting the obligations under the contract.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from differences The provision is based on the present value of between actual and expected returns on plan assets, future payments for surplus leased properties under experience adjustments on liabilities and changes in non-cancellable operating leases, net of estimated actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in sub-leasing income.
94 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued r. Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the q.
Revenue recognition Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance received or receivable for the sale of goods and services leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease net of value-added tax and other sales taxes, rebates at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when and finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental made based primarily on historical return rates.
If these obligations, net of finance charges, are included in estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods financial liabilities borrowings.
The interest element then revenues could be understated or overstated for of the finance cost is charged to the income statement a particular period.
over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired when the newspaper or other publication is published.
under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
basis over the life of the subscription.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor separate elements that can be provided to customers are classified as operating leases by the lessee.
either on a stand-alone basis or as an optional extra, Payments made under operating leases net of any such as the provision of supplementary materials with incentives received from the lessor are charged to textbooks, revenue is recognised for each element as the income statement on a straight-line basis over if it were an individual contractual arrangement.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, s. Dividends such as contracts to process qualifying tests for Dividends are recorded in the Groups financial individual professions and government departments, statements in the period in which they are approved is recognised as performance occurs.
The assumptions, by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are risks, and uncertainties inherent in long-term contract recorded in the period in which they are approved accounting can affect the amounts and timing of and paid.
revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of these arrangements, either as a result of a single service t. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale spanning more than one reporting period or where the Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and contract requires the provision of a number of services stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value that together constitute a single project, are treated less costs to sell if it is intended to recover their carrying as long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a amount principally through a sale transaction rather than percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts are through continuing use.
No depreciation is charged in recognised in the period in which the loss first becomes respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Contract losses are determined to be the Amounts relating to non-current assets and liabilities amount by which estimated total costs of the contract held for sale are classified as discontinued operations exceed the estimated total revenues that will be in the income statement where appropriate.
Trade receivables On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, only Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision commissions and fees receivable for services rendered for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales are recognised as revenue.
Any third-party costs incurred returns see also note 1q.
on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included in revenue.
Income from recharges of freight and other activities which are incidental to the normal revenue generating activities is included in other income.
