45 Directors Remuneration Report Both the PRSS and the LTIP were available to senior executives Directors service contracts as well as the executive directors.
The service contract for each of the executive directors and that of the chairman provide for a period of notice of one year except during the six The performance conditions described above for the PRSS and months following either a takeover of or by the company or a company LTIP were chosen to align executives bonus payments to company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the performance both in the short-term and over a five to seven year period.
notice period reverts to two years for each of the executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this condition is appropriate Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS in relation to the shareholding structure of the company.
This scheme was approved by shareholders at the annual general The executive and non-executive directors have no contractual meeting held on 19th May, 2003 but no options have been awarded.
entitlement to compensation payments in the event of loss of office other than those related to their period of notice.
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, there are two further elements which are available to all employees.
The current policy of the group is for the executive directors service contract notice periods to be normally no longer than 12 months.
All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP The AESOP is HMRC approved and the executive directors participate The service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of in both sections of the scheme, which is open to all employees.
appointment for the non-executive directors include the following terms: The partnership share element provides that for every three shares that a Unexpired Notice period Notice period participant purchases in A. G. BARR p. l. c. up to a maximum contribution Date of term required from required from of 125 per month, the company will purchase one matching share.
The Director contract months director company matching shares purchased are held in trust in the name of the individual.
There are various rules as to the period of time that the shares must Executive be held in trust but after five years the shares can be released tax free W. R. G. Barr 16th February, 2005 2 6 months 1 year to the participant.
B. C. Short 28th May, 2008 12 6 months 1 year The free share element allows participants to receive shares to the value J. D. Kemp 11th October, 2003 12 6 months 1 year of a common percentage of their earnings, related to the performance A. L. Memmott 1st March, 2008 12 6 months 1 year of the group.
The maximum value of the annual award is 3,000 and the shares awarded are held in trust for five years.
Non-executive J. S. Espey 1st April, 2008 0 3 months 3 months Under the terms of this scheme, the matching shares will be forfeited R. G. Hanna 19th June, 2006 3 3 months 3 months if the participant leaves the employment of the company within three years of the award.
All other partnership, matching and free shares must Performance review be removed from the trust if employment with the company ceases.
The graph below plots the total shareholder return for the ordinary share capital of the company against the FTSE small-cap index which Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE has been selected as the most appropriate measure.
In the opinion of The SAYE is HMRC approved and is available to all employees including the board no readily identifiable benchmark group of companies exists.
It is based on a five year savings contract which provides the participant with an option to purchase shares after five years The FTSE small-cap index has been selected as it represents a broad at a discounted price fixed at the time when the contract is taken out, equity market in which the company was a constituant member for most or earlier as provided by the scheme rules.
In the later part of the year the company entered the FTSE 250.
Due to this change an additional comparison has been included Pension schemes on the graph for the FTSE 250.
Executive directors are all members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
The scheme has a defined benefit 250 section and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to new entrants from 14th August, 2003.
200 Details of the entitlements accruing to the three directors who are 150 currently members of the defined benefit section are detailed in the table on page 49.
The contributions paid to the defined contribution section in respect of three directors are disclosed on page 50.
100 Non-executive directors remuneration 50 Non-executive directors receive remuneration for their services as disclosed in the table of directors detailed emoluments on page 46.
0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Non-executive fees are reviewed by the board annually.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys share option schemes, Year to January share award schemes, bonus schemes or pension schemes.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. FTSE small-cap FTSE 250 Index
