44 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Accounts Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee The balance of these elements is intended to align executives longer term interests with those of shareholders.
In 2009 the The Remuneration Committee comprised: performance related elements of the remuneration package J. S. Espey chairman amounted to approximately one third of the executives total R. G. Hanna package 2008: approximately one quarter.
J. S. Espey is the senior non-executive director of the company and Annual bonus has served from 16th April, 1999.
R. G. Hanna, non-executive director, This scheme is available to create focus within the senior executives, was appointed to the Committee on 19th June, 2003. including executive directors, on the annual financial performance of the group.
It is principally based on Profit Before Tax excluding Exceptional The Committee has access to professional advice, both inside items.
A maximum of 75% of each executives base salary is currently and outside the company, and consults with the chairman and payable in cash under the scheme.
Performance Related Share Scheme PRSS Remit The purpose of this scheme was to reward executive directors and other The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from the senior employees for achieving above average performance in the profits company on application to the company secretarial department.
of the group which would also benefit shareholders.
The final award under this scheme was provided for the year to 25th January, 2003 The Committees principal function is to determine the policy on and the scheme has been replaced by the LTIP below.
Subject to the remuneration for the most senior executives of the group and to discretion of the Remuneration Committee, participants were awarded approve the specific remuneration of the executive directors and 1 bonuses following an increase in earnings per share of at least 2 2% the company secretary, including their service contracts.
above the Retail Price Index providing the executive was still in the employment of the company at the end of the scheme year.
The annual The Committee also has responsibility for recommending the bonus value awarded to a participant in respect of a scheme year was remuneration of the chairman to the board.
The Committees remit 1 on a sliding scale commencing at 8 3% and could not exceed 50% therefore includes, but is not restricted to, basic salary, benefits in of the executives annual base salary.
kind, performance related awards, share options and share awards, Long-Term Incentive Plans, pension rights, and any compensation The bonuses are released as follows: or termination payments.
Normally one third of the value of the bonus was in cash and released immediately on award.
There are a number of external advisors appointed by the company The remainder of the value of the bonus was in the form of shares who advise on remuneration matters for the wider workforce and also which would not normally be released earlier than five scheme years provide advice to the Committee from time to time.
after the end of the relevant scheme year.
During the year, advice was obtained from Mercer Human Resource If the average earnings per share for not less than five nor more than Consulting who provided advice on retirement benefits and administered seven scheme years following the year of award exceeds the earnings the groups defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
per share of that scheme year by no less than the average annual percentage rate of inflation for the comparative scheme years plus Policy and objectives 1 2 2%, additional matching shares will be awarded to participants under The ongoing policy of the Committee is to reward the executive the rules of the scheme.
directors in line with the current remuneration of directors in comparable businesses taking into consideration the advice of independent benefit Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP consultants in order to recruit, motivate and retain high quality executives This scheme was approved by shareholders at the annual general within a competitive marketplace.
meeting held on 19th May, 2003 and replaced the PRSS above.
It is available to reward senior executives, including executive directors, Executive directors remuneration if the average earnings per share of the three years running up to and including the year of calculation exceeds the average of the three years Salary and benefits preceding that period, both being adjusted for Retail Price Index, by Basic salaries and benefits in kind are reviewed within the policy each a sliding scale from 10% to over 50%.
The award, payable in shares, year.
Salaries are reviewed each year to take account of movements is valued as a percentage of the basic salary of executives on a scale in the marketplace and individual contribution.
from 12.5% to 75% for the maximum award.
Performance related elements of remuneration The Remuneration Committee consider it appropriate that the revised A significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration vesting conditions for the LTIP scheme, as outlined in the Notice of is performance related through an annual bonus plan, payable the Annual General Meeting, should apply to outstanding awards under in cash, and share award elements.
the scheme as well as to new awards.
However the total amount which may vest under outstanding awards and the maximum potential award The elements of the executive directors remuneration are: for each existing award holder will not be altered.
The change in vesting Basic salary and benefits: conditions will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM as part Performance related components.
In the year to 31st January, of the adoption of the revised LTIP scheme rules.
2009 these were the free share element of the AESOP, the PRSS, the annual performance bonus and the LTIP.
