43 Statement on Corporate Governance At the Audit Committee meeting on 15th January, 2009, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Committee concluded that the group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
The board requires the departments within the company to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the current year and up to the date of the approval of this annual report, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Following a review of the internal control processes further improvements were identified and have been put into place during the course of the year.
The main elements of the groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The board The board has overall responsibility for the groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The board meets at 12 arranged board meetings each year and has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee, which, with the finance director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported.
The board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against budget and forecast.
Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the group are all subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm who are independent from the board and the company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The group maintains that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
