NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. criticaL accountinG JuDGementS anD eStimateS The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates and assumptions in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believes require the most critical accounting judgements are: Underlying business performance Underlying business performance is presented to provide more useful information on underlying trends.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS, and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
Reconciliations between underlying and reported measures are included in note 10 and in the Directors report on page 4.
Environmental and landfill restoration provisions Restoration and aftercare provisions are recognised in the financial statements at the net present value of the estimated future expenditure required to settle the Groups restoration and aftercare obligations.
A discount is applied to recognise the time value of money and is unwound over the life of the provision.
This is included in the income statement as a financial item within interest payable.
As at 31 March 2009 the Groups environmental and landfill restoration provisions were 97.5m.
Where a provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised and depreciated in accordance with the Groups depreciation policy.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs The Group capitalises material borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying assets assets necessarily taking a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended use.
At the balance sheet date only the assets under construction in the Lakeside Energy from Waste joint venture meet the criteria for capitalisation of related borrowing costs.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for which actuarial valuations are carried out as determined by the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
The pension cost under IAS 19 is assessed in accordance with Directors best estimates using the advice of an independent qualified actuary and assumptions in the latest actuarial valuation.
The assumptions are based on information supplied to the actuary, supplemented by discussions between the actuary and management.
The principal assumptions used to measure schemes liabilities, sensitivities to changes in assumptions and future funding obligations are set out in note 28 of the financial statements.
Cash-generating units For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The waste management segment is considered to be a single cash-generating unit as it is an integrated business.
Areas which management believes require the most critical accounting estimations are: Landfill costs The estimation of landfill reserves is of particular importance in assessing landfill costs, since the cost of a landfill site is depreciated over its estimated operational life taking into account the usage of void space and gas production at the site post closure.
The estimates of landfill reserves are regularly reviewed and updated during the financial year for usage and other events for example site extensions.
Estimates are also subject to physical review by external advisors.
A number of factors impact on the depreciation of landfill reserves including the available landfill space, future capital expenditure and operating costs.
The assumptions are revised as these factors change.
The estimate of gas production at landfill sites post-closure reduces the depreciation of landfill reserves.
An assessment is undertaken for individual sites of the historic profile of gas production during landfilling activity and the projected generation post-closure according to the type of waste contained in the landfill and expected profile of gas production over time.
68 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
