NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GeneraL information Pennon Group Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 42.
Pennon Groups business is operated through two main subsidiaries.
South West Water Limited holds the water and sewerage appointments for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
Viridor Limiteds business is waste treatment and disposal.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
a Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the requirements of the Financial Services Authority.
A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
At the date of approval of these financial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised IFRS 3 Business combinations revised IAS 32 Financial instruments : presentation amendment and consequential amendments to IAS 1 IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS and amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements Improvements to IFRS IAS 39 Financial instruments : recognition and measurement amendment IAS 39 Financial instruments : recognition and measurement amendment and consequential amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments : disclosures IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction IFRIC 15 Agreement for the construction of real estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net position in a foreign operation IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers The presentational impact of these standards and interpretations is being assessed.
The Directors expect that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions which affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best assessment of the amounts, actual events or actions and results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of Pennon Group Plc and its subsidiary and joint venture undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries and joint venture undertakings are included from the date of acquisition or incorporation, and excluded from the date of disposal.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated where the Group has the power to control a subsidiary.
The results of joint venture undertakings are accounted for on an equity basis where the Group exercised joint control under a contractual arrangement.
Intra-group trading and loan balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
58 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
