NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued o taxation including deferred tax The tax charge for the year is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the future for it to be utilised.
p Provisions Provisions are made where there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that there will be an outflow of economic benefits to settle this obligation and a reliable estimate of this amount can be made.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material the current amount of a provision is the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations.
The unwinding of the discount to present value is included as a financial item within finance costs.
The Groups policies on provisions for specific areas are: i Landfill restoration costs Provisions for the cost of restoring landfill sites are made when the obligation arises.
Where the obligation recognised as a provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset in property, plant and equipment is recognised.
Provisions are otherwise charged against profits.
ii Environmental control and aftercare costs Environmental control and aftercare costs are incurred during the operational life of each landfill site and for a considerable period thereafter.
Provision for all such costs is made over the operational life of the site and charged to the income statement on the basis of the usage of void space at the site.
iii Restructuring costs Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when a detailed formal plan for the restructuring has been communicated to affected parties.
q Share capital and treasury shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable costs, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is included in equity.
The Group balance sheet includes the shares held by the Pennon Employee Share Trust and which have not vested by the balance sheet date.
These are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity until such time as they vest.
r Dividend distributions Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid: final dividends when approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 63
