NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued n Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group classifies its financial instruments in the following categories: i Loans and receivables All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Following initial recognition interestbearing loans and borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the instruments are derecognised or impaired.
Premia, discounts and other costs and fees are recognised in the income statement through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
ii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value for the reported balance sheet.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except for cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, when the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument which is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity, and the ineffective portion in the income statement.
The gains or losses deferred in equity in this way are subsequently recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged underlying transaction or firm commitment is recognised in the income statement.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument which shows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at the end of each reporting period to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than one year, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than one year.
Derivative financial instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting are classified as a current asset or liability with any change in fair value recognised immediately in the income statement.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
iv Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is used to calculate the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate which discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or liability or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
62 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
