NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued h Property, plant and equipment i Infrastructure assets being water mains and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, pipelines and sea outfalls Infrastructure assets were included at fair value on transition to IFRS and subsequent additions are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Expenditure to increase capacity or enhance infrastructure assets is capitalised where it can be reliably measured and it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will flow to the entity.
The cost of day-to-day servicing of infrastructure components is recognised in the income statement as it arises.
Infrastructure assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives, and are principally: Dams and impounding reservoirs 200 years Water mains 40 100 years Sewers 40 100 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
ii Landfill sites Landfill sites are included within land and buildings at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes acquisition and development expenses.
The cost of a landfill is depreciated to its residual value which is linked to gas production at the site post-closure over its estimated operational life taking account of the usage of void space.
Where the obligation to restore a landfill site is an integral part of its future economic benefits, a non-current asset within property, plant and equipment is recognised.
The asset recognised is depreciated based on the usage of void space.
iii Other assets including properties, overground plant and equipment Other assets are included at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other assets are depreciated evenly to their residual value over their estimated economic lives, and are principally: Freehold buildings 30 60 years Leasehold buildings Over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter Operational structures 40 80 years Fixed plant 20 40 years Vehicles, mobile plant and computers 3 10 years Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
The cost of assets includes directly attributable labour and overhead costs which are incremental to the Group.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of a qualifying asset an asset necessarily taking a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use are capitalised as part of the asset.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
60 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
