NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued i Leased assets Assets held under finance leases are included as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value at commencement or the present value of the minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their estimated economic lives or the finance lease period, whichever is the shorter.
The corresponding liability is recorded as borrowings.
The interest element of the rental costs is charged against profits using the actuarial method over the period of the lease.
Rental costs arising under operating leases are charged against profits in the year they are incurred.
j impairment of non-financial assets Assets with an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment, or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Value in use represents the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be derived from a cash-generating unit, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects an assessment of the market cost of capital of the cash-generating unit.
Impairments are charged to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
k investment in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are initially recorded at cost, being the fair value of the consideration paid, including associated acquisition costs.
Subsequently, investments are reviewed for impairment on an individual basis annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
l Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill and is included in the carrying value of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is adjusted for the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses recognised in the income statement.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
m cash and cash deposits Cash and cash deposits comprise cash in hand and short-term deposits held at banks.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current borrowings.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 61
