NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued s employee benefits i Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit pension schemes Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using bid price.
Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are measured by independent actuaries who advise on the selection of Directors best estimates.
The projected unit credit method is employed and liabilities discounted at the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent term to the liabilities.
The increase in liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value of scheme liabilities are included in other finance income or cost.
Changes in past service costs arising from changes in benefits are recognised immediately in income.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience items and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity through inclusion in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Defined contribution scheme Costs of the defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Share-based payment The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans for employees.
The fair value of the employee services required in exchange for the grant is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the grant.
Fair values are calculated using an appropriate pricing model.
Non market-based vesting conditions are adjusted for in assumptions as to the number of shares which are expected to vest.
t Pre-contract costs Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred, except where it is probable that the contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset which is amortised to the income statement over the life of the contract.
u fair values The fair value of the interest rate swaps is based on the market price of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date if they are publicly traded.
The fair values of short-term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their book values.
In the case of non-current bank loans and other loans the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
64 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
