NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
PrinciPaL accountinG PoLicieS continued On acquisition the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or joint venture acquired are measured at their fair values and any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired a credit is recognised in the income statement in the year of acquisition.
c revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding value added tax, trade discounts and inter company sales, in the ordinary course of business for goods and services provided.
Revenue is recognised once the services or goods have been provided to the customer.
Income from main water and waste water charges includes billed amounts for estimated usage and also an estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the period-end based upon a defined methodology reflecting historical consumption and current tariffs.
Income from electricity generated from waste management landfill gas production includes an estimation of the amount to be received under renewables obligation certificates.
Income from recycling activities within waste management includes amounts based upon market prices for recyclate products and industry schemes for waste electrical WEEE notes and packaging volumes PRNs processed.
Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the effective interest method.
d Landfill tax Landfill tax is included within both revenue and operating costs.
It is determined by the Government and is a cost to the Group but is chargeable to customers.
e Segmental reporting Each of the Groups business segments provides services which are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of the other business segments.
The Groups internal organisation and management structure and its system of internal financial reporting is based primarily on business segments.
The principal business segments comprise the regulated water and sewerage services undertaken by South West Water Limited and the waste management business of Viridor Limited.
Segmental revenue and results include transactions between businesses.
Inter-segmental transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
f Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation from the acquisition of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Further details are contained in accounting policy j.
When a subsidiary or joint venture undertaking is sold, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of unamortised goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 2004 the Groups date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written-off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 was not reinstated on transition to IFRS and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
g other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, with the expense taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 59
