APPEnDIx Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements.
Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, intends, may, will or should or in each case their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Group, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in law or regulation, currency fluctuations including fluctuations in the US Dollar or Rouble, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves and to implement its expansion plans and achieve cost reductions and efficiency measures, changes in business strategy or development, political and economic uncertainty and other risks described in the section entitled Managing Risk.
There can be no assurance that the results and events contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report will, in fact, occur.
Any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report reflect the Groups current view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations and growth strategy.
Shareholders should specifically consider the factors identified in this Annual Report which could cause results to differ before making an investment decision.
These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this Annual Report.
The Group will not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or unanticipated events occurring after the date of this Annual Report, except as required by law or by any appropriate regulatory authority.
nothing in this publication should be considered as a profit forecast.
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Basis of reporting reserves and resources Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates included within this Annual Report and Accounts are reported in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves as prepared by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geosciences and Minerals Council of Australia JORC Code 2004.
The contents of this announcement have been approved for release by Dr P. newall, BSc, PhD, CEng, FIMMM, of Wardell Armstrong International.
Dr P. newall has consented to the inclusion of the material in the form and context in which it appears.
150 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009
