Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements for the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report which complies with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 to 53, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: and The Directors Report, taken together with the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executive Officers Review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Petropavlovsk PLC and signed on its behalf by: Peter Hambro Chairman 24 March 2010 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85
