NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2009 1.
General information Petropavlovsk PLC the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The address of the registered office is 11 Grosvenor Place, London SW1x 7HH.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Petropavlovsk PLC and its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial investments, financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Going concern The Directors have reviewed the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating projections as part of their consideration of going concern.
These forecasts are primarily susceptible to gold price fluctuations over the next 12 months.
Consideration has also been given to the Groups contractual capital commitments and planned development of future projects.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has sufficient liquidity and cash resources in order to meet its commitments and existing obligations in light of the Groups cash flow forecasts as well as the availability of a US$150 million syndicated loan facility which was in place and largely undrawn at 31 December 2009 and the proceeds from the issue of the US$380 million convertible bonds in February 2010.
After making appropriate inquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations In the current year the Group has adopted the following revised standards and interpretations: Starting from 1 January 2009, the Group has adopted IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 IAS 1, IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 IAS 23.
IAS 1 revised 2007 requires the presentation of non-owner changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The Group has chosen to present two statements, the income statement and statement of recognised income and expenses which includes items of comprehensive income.
As a result, a statement of recognised income and expenses statement of comprehensive income has been included in the primary statements.
In addition, the adoption of IFRS 8 triggers the need to present a second year of comparatives for the balance sheet.
As there were no changes to the balance sheet at 31 December 2007 previously presented, this has not been disclosed.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker which is then used to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
In contrast, the predecessor standard IAS 14 Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments, business and geographical, based upon a risk and rewards approach.
A summary of the changes to the operating segments identified is set out in note 4.
IAS 23 revised 2007 requires capitalisation of borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction, or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
In contrast, the predecessor standard IAS 23 revised 1993 allowed the option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs which has been used by the Group as its accounting policy.
The change in accounting policy, which was adopted prospectively from 1 January 2009, resulted in capitalisation of borrowings costs attributed to the Groups development and construction projects: such costs comprised US$ 14.7 million during the year ended 31 December 2009 note 10.
Accounting policy on borrowing costs is set out in note 2.21.
Standards and amendments which are effective in future reporting periods are: IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business combinations, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and separate financial statements, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 28 revised 2008 Investments in associates, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
92 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Improvements to IFRSs IASBs annual improvements project published in April 2009.
The Directors anticipate that these amendments will be adopted in the Groups financial statements, where applicable, for the period beginning 1 January 2010.
Comparatives Following the adoption of IFRS 8, as well as the acquisition of Aricom plc on 22 April 2009 note 31, the composition of the Groups reportable segments has changed.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been restated accordingly.
Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries as at the balance sheet date.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency of accounting policies with the policies adopted by the Group.
Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination or acquisition of ore deposits by way of a corporate vehicle and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
2.5. Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Acquisition of assets Frequently, the acquisition of mining licences is effected through a non-operating corporate structure.
As these structures do not represent a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the definition of a business combination.
Accordingly the transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are recognised at cost.
Where the Group has full control but does not own 100% of the assets, then a minority interest is recognised at an equivalent amount based on the Groups cost, the assets continue to be carried at cost and changes in those values are recognised in equity.
Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control i. e. when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint venture require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly-controlled entities.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Interests in joint ventures continued The Groups interests in jointly-controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Interests in joint ventures are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the jointly-controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
When a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for the impairment.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in US Dollars, which is the Groups presentation currency.
The functional currency of the Company is the US Dollar.
The rates of exchange used to translate balances from other currencies into US Dollars were as follows currency per US Dollar : 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 GB Pounds Sterling 0.63 0.69 Russian Rouble 30.24 29.38 In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
94 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations which have a functional currency other than US Dollars are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the year, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that year, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and expenses and accumulated in equity, with share attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable to the shareholders of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is included in non-current assets as a separate line item.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill on acquisition of an associate or a joint venture is included in the carrying amount of investment and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired over cost is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Intangible assets Exploration and evaluation expenditure and mineral rights acquired Exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred in relation to those projects where such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale, or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves, are capitalised and recorded on the balance sheet within intangible assets for mining projects at the exploration stage.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprise costs directly attributable to: Researching and analysing existing exploration data: Conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: Examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: Compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies: and Costs incurred in acquiring mineral rights, the entry premiums paid to gain access to areas of interest and amounts payable to third parties to acquire interests in existing projects Mineral rights acquired through a business combination or an asset acquisition are capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised and mining rights are subsequently valued at cost less impairment.
In circumstances where a project is abandoned, the cumulative capitalised costs related to the project are written off in the period when such decision is made.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised and mining rights within intangible assets are not depreciated.
These assets are transferred to mine development costs within property, plant and equipment when a decision is taken to proceed with the development of the project, as outlined in note 2.12 below.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets represent licensed intellectual property purchased in relation to the processing of titanium sponge.
These intangible assets are measured at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful life, which is a period of up to ten years, but dependent upon the start-up of the titanium sponge plant.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings, plant and equipment On initial recognition, land, property, plant and equipment are valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable cost of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the location and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by the Group.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital construction in progress account.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure includes costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure.
Once a development decision has been taken, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation expenditure in respect of the area of interest is aggregated with the development expenditure and classified under non-current assets as mine development costs.
Mine development costs are reclassified as mining assets at the end of the commissioning phase, when the mine is capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
No depreciation is recognised in respect of mine development costs until they are reclassified as mining assets.
Mine development costs are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy in note 2.13.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are depreciated using a units of production method or on a straight-line basis as set out below.
Mining assets, except for those related to alluvial gold operations, where economic benefits from the asset are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level, are depreciated using a units of production method based on ore reserves, which results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of reserves.
The basis for determining ore reserve estimates is set out in note 3.1.
Where the mining plan anticipates future capital expenditure to support the mining activity over the life of the mine, the depreciable amount is adjusted for such estimated future expenditure.
Certain property, plant and equipment within mining assets are depreciated based on estimated useful lives, if shorter than the remaining life of the mine or if such property, plant and equipment can be moved to another site subsequent to the mine closure.
Mining assets related to alluvial gold operations are depreciated based on estimated useful lives.
Non-mining assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on estimated useful lives.
Mine development costs and capital construction in progress are not depreciated, except for that property plant and equipment used in the development of a mine.
Such property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on estimated useful lives and depreciation is capitalised as part of mine development costs.
Estimated useful lives normally vary as set out below.
Average life Number of years Buildings 1550 Plant and machinery 320 Vehicles 57 Office equipment 510 Computer equipment 35 Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
96 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 2.13.
Impairment of non-financial assets Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are reviewed by management for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
This applies to the Groups share of the assets held by the joint ventures as well as the assets held by the Group itself.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value less costs to sell.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash generating unit in an arms length transaction.
Future cash flows are based on: estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: future production levels: future commodity prices assuming the current market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long term average price, generally over a period of up to five years : and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, environment protection, rehabilitation and closure.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets includes a number of restrictions on the future cash flows that can be recognised in respect of future restructurings and improvement-related capital expenditure.
When calculating value in use, it also requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
For operations with a functional currency other than the US Dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
These estimates are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The discount rate applied is based upon pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows, to the extent that such risks are not reflected in the forecast cash flows.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
Deferred stripping costs In open pit mining operations, removal of overburden and other waste materials, referred to as stripping, is required to obtain access to the ore body.
Stripping costs incurred during the development of the mine before the commercial production commences are capitalised as part of mine development costs and are subsequently depreciated over the life of a mine on a units of production basis.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of a mine are deferred where this is the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic benefits as follows: Where stripping costs do not fluctuate significantly over the life of the mine, such costs are deferred as part of cost of inventory and are written off to the income statement in the following year, this being the period over which economic benefits related to the stripping activity are realised: Where stripping costs fluctuate significantly over the life of the mine, such costs are deferred based on the ratio obtained by dividing the tonnage or volume, where applicable of waste mined by the quantity of ore mined stripping ratio.
Stripping costs incurred in the period are deferred to the extent that the current period stripping ratio exceeds the life-of-mine ratio for the particular mine.
Such stripping costs are included in mining assets within property, plant and equipment and are amortised in subsequent periods to the extent that the periods stripping ratio falls below the life-of-mine ratio.
The life-of-mine ratio is based on the mineable reserves of the mine.
Where, during the production phase, further development of the mine requires a phase of unusually high overburden removal activity that is similar in nature to pre-production mine development, such stripping costs are considered in a manner consistent with stripping costs incurred during the development of the mine before the commercial production commences.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Provisions for close down and restoration costs Close-down and restoration costs include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas.
Close down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the legal or constructive obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, whether this occurs during the mine development or during the production phase, based on the net present value of estimated future costs.
Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan.
The cost estimates are calculated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments and are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown as a financing cost, rather than as an operating cost.
Other movements in the provisions for close-down and restoration costs, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance sheet date.
All other costs of continuous rehabilitation are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Financial instruments Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, other investments, trade and other receivables, borrowings, derivatives, and trade and other payables.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value when the Group becomes a party to their contractual arrangements.
Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement of financial instruments, except financial instruments classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
The subsequent measurement of financial instruments is dealt with below.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognised at trade-date, the date on which the Group commits to purchase the asset.
The Group does not hold any financial assets which meet the definition of held-to-maturity investments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current if they are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classed in any of the other categories.
They are included within non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes to the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in equity.
When available-for-sale financial assets are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables that have fixed or determinable payments are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less accumulated impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
98 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Effective interest method The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset, or where appropriate, a shorter period.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term, highly-liquid investments readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and are measured at cost which is deemed to be fair value as they have a short-term maturity.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence as a result of a loss event that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The impairment is recognised in the income statement.
Other investments Listed investments and unlisted equity investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and subsequently measured at fair value.
Fair values for unlisted equity investments are estimated using methods reflecting the economic circumstances of the investee.
Equity investments for which fair value cannot be measured reliably are recognised at cost less impairment.
Changes in fair value are recognised in equity in the period in which they arise.
These amounts are removed from equity and reported in income when the asset is derecognised or when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities, other than derivatives, are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The fair value of the liability portion of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised and included in shareholders equity, net of income tax effects.
The exchangeable bonds, after separation of the embedded options, are recognised at fair value which is determined as the net proceeds received from the issuance of the bonds less transaction costs and premiums received or paid for the embedded options.
The bonds are subsequently measured on an amortised cost basis, using the effective interest rate valuation method until redemption or maturity of the bonds.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments In accordance with IAS 39 the fair value of all derivatives are separately recorded on the balance sheet.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host-contract and the host-contract is not carried at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are recognised at fair value at inception.
Any change to the fair value of the embedded derivatives is recognised in operating profit within the income statement.
Embedded derivatives which are settled net are disclosed in line with the maturity of their host contracts.
The fair value of embedded derivatives is determined by using market prices where available.
In other cases, fair value will be calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using appropriate valuation techniques.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Financial instruments continued Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue cost.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after appropriate allowances for redundant and slow-moving items.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion.
Cost is determined on the following bases: Gold in process is valued at the average total production cost at the relevant stage of production: Gold on hand is valued on an average total production cost method: Ore stockpiles are valued at the average moving cost of mining and stockpiling the ore.
Stockpiles are allocated as a non-current asset where the stockpile exceeds current processing capacity: Consumable stores are valued at average cost: and Heap leach pad materials are measured on an average total production cost basis.
The cost of materials on the leach pad from which gold is expected to be recovered in a period greater than 12 months is classified as a non-current asset.
A portion of the related depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge relating to production is included in the cost of inventory.
As described in note 2.14, deferred stripping costs are included in inventories where appropriate.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
100 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 2.20.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue derived from goods and services comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to third parties, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.
The following criteria must also be present: The sale of mining products is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the products are transferred to the buyer: Revenue derived from services is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered: Revenue from bulk sample sales made during the exploration or development phases of operations is recognised as a sale in the income statement: Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established: and Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking account of the principal outstanding and the effective rate over the period to maturity, when it is determined that such income will accrue to the Group.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of acquisition, construction or development of qualifying assets, which are mining projects under development that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get prepared for their intended use.
Such borrowing costs are capitalised and added to mine development costs of the mining project when the decision is made to proceed with the development of the project and until such time when the project is substantially ready for its intended use, which is when commercial production is ready to commence.
To the extent that funds are borrowed to finance a specific mining project, borrowing costs capitalised represent the actual borrowing costs incurred.
To the extent that funds are borrowed for the general purpose, borrowing costs capitalised are determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount of capital expenditure incurred to develop the relevant mining project during the period.
Taxation Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all temporary differences existing at the balance sheet date with certain limited exceptions.
Temporary differences are the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability and its tax base.
The main exceptions to this principle are as follows: Tax payable on the future remittance of the past earnings of subsidiaries, associates and jointly-controlled entities is provided for except where the Company is able to control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future: Deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable profit and is not a business combination, such as on the recognition of a provision for close-down and restoration costs and the related asset or on the inception of finance lease: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
In such cases, the provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its nil income tax base.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 101 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements in place, details of which are set out in note 32.
Equity-settled share-based payment awards are measured at fair value at the grant date.
The fair values determined at the grant date are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payments reserve within the equity.
The fair values of equity-settled share-based payment awards are determined at the dates of grant using a Black Scholes model for those awards vesting based on operating performance conditions and Monte Carlo model for those awards vesting based on market-related performance conditions.
The estimate of the number of the awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in income statement so that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payments reserve within the equity.
Employee Benefit Trust Certain Ordinary Shares underlying the share-based payment awards granted are held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Details of Employee Benefit Trust arrangements are set out in note 32.
The carrying value of shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as treasury shares, shown as a deduction to shareholders equity.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty When preparing the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 2, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances and previous experience.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are set out below.
3.1 Ore reserve estimates The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment assumptions when reporting reserves, including future production estimates, expected future commodity prices and production cash costs.
Ore reserve estimates are used in the calculation of depreciation of mining assets using a units of production method, impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment of close-down and restoration costs.
Also, for the purpose of impairment review and the assessment of life of mine for forecasting the timing of the payment of close down and restoration costs, the Group may take into account mineral resources in addition to ore reserves where there is a high degree of confidence that such resources will be extracted.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period as additional geological data becomes available during the course of operations or economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change.
Such changes in estimated reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: Asset carrying values due to changes in estimated future cash flows: Depreciation charged in the income statement where such charges are determined by using a units of production method or where the useful economic lives of assets are determined with reference to the life of the mine: Provisions for close down and restoration costs where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing of the payment of such costs: Carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities where changes in estimated reserves affect the carrying value of the relevant assets and liabilities.
102 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Change in ore reserve estimates Prior to 1 January 2009, the Group estimated its ore reserves and mineral resources based on the Russian Reserves and Resources Classification System, being the reporting system under which it is legally required to operate in the Russian Federation and which was approved by the State Committee of Reserves GKZ in 1965 amended in 1981 and 2008.
Ore reserves represented A, B, C1 and C2 category reserves, estimated according to the Russian Reserves and Resources Classification System.
The Russian Reserves and Resources Classification System is based primarily on the degree of geological knowledge and the technical ability to extract a mineral reserve.
Although economic considerations form a part of the justification for A, B, C1 and C2 category reserves, the system does not take into account the economic viability of extraction in the same way as the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code does.
If the Group continued using the Russian Reserves and Resources Classification System to estimate its ore reserves and life of the mine, depreciation charged in the income statement where such charges are determined by using a units of production method would have been US$3.8 million lower note 6.
3.2 Exploration and evaluation costs The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure being capitalised for those projects where such expenditure is considered likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether the Group will proceed with development based on existence of reserves or whether an economically-viable extraction operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions may change from period to period as new information becomes available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the relevant capitalised amount will be written-off to the income statement.
3.3 Impairment The Group reviews at least annually the carrying values of its tangible and intangible assets and goodwill to determine whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
In making the assessment for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to CGU or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the related business combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset, or CGU, is measured as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Management necessarily apply their judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, in estimating the profitability, timing and value of underlying cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied within the value in use calculation.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or estimates and assumptions in the value in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
3.4 Close down and restoration costs Costs associated with restoration and rehabilitation of mining sites are typical for extractive industries and are normally incurred at the end of the life of the mine.
Provision is recognised for each mining site for such costs discounted to their net present value, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
The costs are estimated on the basis of the scope of site restoration and rehabilitation activity in accordance with the mine closure plan and represent managements best estimate of the expenditure that will be incurred.
Estimates are reviewed annually as new information becomes available.
The initial provision for close-down and restoration costs together with other movements in the provision, including those resulting from updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of the mines, and revisions to discount rates are capitalised within mine development costs or mining assets of property, plant and equipment.
Capitalised costs are depreciated over the live of the mine they relate to and the provision is increased each period via unwinding the discount on the provision.
Changes to the estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the asset and the provision.
The actual costs may be different from those estimated due to changes in relevant laws and regulations, changes in prices as well as changes to the restoration techniques.
The actual timing of cash outflows may be also different from those estimated due to changes in the life of the mine as a result of changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close down and restoration costs established which would affect future financial results.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 103 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued 3.5 Tax provisions and tax legislation The Group is subject to income tax in the UK, Russian Federation and Cyprus.
Assessing the outcome of uncertain tax positions requires judgements to be made.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due, such estimates are based on the status of ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities and advice from independent tax advisers.
Russian tax and currency control legislation is subject to varying interpretations.
Fines and penalties for any errors and omissions could be significant.
The Directors believe that there have been no material breaches of Russian tax regulations and that these financial statements contain all necessary provisions in respect of the Groups tax liabilities in Russia.
3.6 Recognition of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets, including those arising from tax losses carried forward for the future tax periods, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The likelihood of such recoverability is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits which relevant deferred tax asset can be utilised to offset.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty and there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding charge or credit to the income statement.
Segmental information Business segments The Group has five reportable segments under IFRS 8: Precious metals segment, comprising gold operations at different stages, from field exploration through to mine development and gold production.
The Gold segment includes the Groups principal mines Pokrovskiy and Pioneer, the Groups alluvial operations, the Groups operations under Omchak and Odolgo joint venture arrangements as well as various gold projects at the exploration and development stages.
Non-precious metals segment, comprising iron ore projects.
The Iron segment includes the Kuranakh project, the K&S project, the Garinskoye project and the Bolshoy Seym project as well as the Kostenginskoye and Garinskoye Flanks projects.
Exploration, comprising in-house geological exploration expertise performed by the Groups exploration companies Regis and Dalgeologiya.
Construction and Engineering segment, comprising in-house construction and engineering expertise.
The Construction and Engineering segment includes construction performed by the Groups specialist construction company Kapstroi and the engineering and scientific operations represented by PHM Engineering, Irgiredmet and Giproruda.
The Other segment primarily includes procurement of materials such as reagents and consumables and equipment for third parties undertaken by Irgiredmet, the Groups interest in joint venture arrangements for design and development of a titanium sponge production plant in China, the Groups interest in joint venture arrangements for production of vanadium penoxides and related products in China as well as various other projects.
The Group has changed the composition of its reportable segments from 1 January 2009, following the adoption of IFRS 8, as well as following the acquisition of Aricom plc on 22 April 2009.
The key changes in the basis of segmentation from the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 are set out below: Projects at the exploration stage have been moved from the Exploration and Evaluation segment reported in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 into the Gold segment.
This change primarily affected segmental assets, namely, exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised and shown within the intangible assets category.
Construction and engineering in-house expertise, which has been identified as a separate segment under IFRS 8, was included in the Construction and other services segment reported in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The acquisition of Aricom plc has resulted in a new reportable segment Non-precious metals.
104 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Segment information Segment information about the Groups reportable segments is presented below.
Amounts reported for the prior year have been restated to conform with the requirements of IFRS 8.
Precious Non-precious Construction and metals metals Exploration Engineering Other Consolidated 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold sales 426,956 426,956 Silver sales 2,856 2,856 Other external sales 802 2,508 20,245 18,964 42,519 Total Group revenue from external customers 430,614 2,508 20,245 18,964 472,331 Inter-segment sales 274 24,941 85,862 31,764 142,841 Net operating expenses 181,461 6,456 5,800 22,455 25,050 241,222 including Depreciation and amortisation 32,156 867 2,834 3,193 1,472 40,522 Impairment 4,243 4,243 a Share of results in joint ventures 2,470 253 2,723 Segment result 251,623 6,456 3,292 2,210 5,833 233,832 Central administration 54,063 Foreign exchange losses 5,905 Operating profit 173,864 Fair value change on derivatives 819 Financial income 31,480 Financial expenses 7,140 Taxation 52,601 Profit for the period 144,784 Segment assets 808,100 432,512 15,885 74,129 123,157 1,453,783 Segment liabilities 31,717 9,768 3,238 11,059 23,453 79,235 a Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 88,260 Derivative financial instruments net 96 Unallocated cash 56,677 Loans given 30,574 Borrowings 95,546 Net assets 1,299,764 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 11,694 36 302 465 12,497 Other additions to intangible assets 56 107 163 Capital expenditure 180,661 61,239 804 4,885 2,854 250,443 Other items capitalised 17,063 17,063 Average number of employees 3,510 567 880 1,750 1,059 7,766 a In making the assessment for impairment, goodwill is allocated to the Group of cash-generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies, altogether comprising the Precious Metals Segment note 14.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Segmental information continued Segment information continued Precious Construction and metals Exploration Engineering Other Consolidated 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Revenue Gold sales 288,029 288,029 Silver sales 383 383 Other external sales 2,368 6,027 50,418 34,463 93,276 Total Group revenue from external customers 290,780 6,027 50,418 34,463 381,688 Inter-segment sales 261 30,184 38,181 22,534 91,160 Net operating expenses 145,065 8,759 50,007 31,241 235,072 including Depreciation and amortisation 16,782 2,384 1,918 1,202 22,286 Impairment 3,240 3,240 Share of results in joint ventures 1,261 1,261 Segment result 144,454 2,732 411 3,222 145,355 Central administration 36,054 Foreign exchange losses 25,013 Operating profit 84,288 Fair value change on derivatives 18,307 Financial income 7,709 Financial expenses 33,302 Taxation 17,643 Profit for the period 22,745 Segment assets 618,675 20,119 51,692 76,990 767,476 Segment liabilities 21,578 2,162 8,153 16,133 48,026 a Goodwill 21,675 Deferred tax net 15,523 Derivative financial instruments net 40,601 Unallocated cash 5,479 Loans given 25,570 Borrowings 373,724 Net assets 342,326 Other segment information Additions to non-current assets: Exploration and evaluation expenditure capitalised within intangible assets 53,522 187 2,642 56,351 Other additions to intangible assets 364 1,723 2,087 Capital expenditure 86,268 5,914 10,228 1,330 103,740 Other items capitalised 3,407 3,407 Average number of employees 3,237 869 1,465 973 6,544 106 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Entity wide disclosures a Revenue by geographical location 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Russia and CIS 433,126 272,821 UK 39,205 30,002 Rest of Europe 78,865 472,331 381,688 a Based on the location to which the product is shipped or in which the services are provided.
b Non-current assets by location of asset 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Russia 1,200,090 615,887 China 31,619 1,231,709 615,887 b Excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Information about major customers During the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, the Group generated revenues from the sales of gold to a number of financial institutions, namely, to Russian banks for Russian domestic sales of gold and to foreign banks for sales of gold outside of Russia.
Included in gold sales revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009 are revenues of US$356 million which arose from sales of gold to three banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue 2008: US$231 million revenues from sales of gold to three banks that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
The proportion of Group revenue of each bank may vary from year to year depending on commercial terms agreed with each bank.
Management considers that there is no major customer concentration risk due to high liquidity inherent to gold as a commodity.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group generated revenues of US$47 million to Aricom plc and its subsidiaries note 30 which comprised 12% of the Groups revenue.
On 22 April 2009, Aricom plc became a subsidiary of the Group and from that date the revenues have been eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Sales of goods 445,880 310,524 Rendering of services 24,263 68,965 Rental income 2,188 2,199 472,331 381,688 Investment income 7,661 7,709 479,992 389,397 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Net operating expenses and profit 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Net operating expenses Cost of sales a 195,220 198,495 Impairment charges 4,243 3,240 Administration expenses b 96,326 70,174 Foreign exchange losses 5,905 25,013 Other net operating income 504 783 301,190 296,139 a 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Staff costs 50,430 58,503 Fuel 15,944 19,508 Materials 43,131 52,773 Depreciation 27,587 13,472 Electricity 8,222 5,307 Royalties 24,353 17,410 Smelting and transportation costs 3,216 2,593 Selling and distribution 1,021 2,073 Movement in work in progress and bullion in process attributable to gold production 7,290 14,014 Other costs 15,004 23,794 Goods for resale 13,602 17,076 195,220 198,495 108 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information b 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Administration expenses Staff costs 38,112 22,136 Depreciation 12,936 8,812 Professional fees 6,059 6,633 Bank charges 1,084 1,562 Insurance 3,175 1,788 Office rent 3,907 2,011 Travel and entertainment 5,332 3,902 Office cost 2,086 1,335 Allowance for bad debts 1,510 957 Other 17,631 17,129 91,832 66,265 Costs incurred in relation to the admission to the main board of the London Stock Exchange 4,494 3,909 96,326 70,174 7.
Auditors remuneration The Group, including its overseas subsidiaries, obtained the following services from the Companys auditors and its associates: a 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the annual audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 363 475 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates: For the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 331 For the audit of subsidiary statutory accounts pursuant to legislation 167 25 Total audit fees 861 500 Tax services 10 Fees for reporting accountants services 636 Other services pursuant to legislation interim review fee 97 60 Accounting advice 39 b Transaction-based corporate finance services 456 Offer assistance in preparation for listing 449 Other services 33 Total non-audit fees 179 1,601 a The fees disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2008 were paid to the Companys previous auditors Moore Stephens LLP.
b Prior to their appointment as auditors, fees of US$269,000 were paid to Deloitte for transaction-based corporate finance services that were provided as part of the Groups admission to the main board of London Stock Exchange.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8.
Staff costs 2009 2008 Note US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 73,630 68,717 Social security costs 11,756 11,895 Pension costs 223 27 Share-based compensation 2,933 88,542 80,639 Average number of employees 4 7,766 6,544 9.
Financial income 2009 2008 Note US$000 US$000 Interest income 7,661 7,709 Gain on redemption of exchangeable bonds 23 23,716 Other finance income 103 31,480 7,709 10.
Financial expenses 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Interest on bank and other loans 6,142 5,466 Interest on exchangeable bonds 6,048 16,606 Interest on convertible bonds 9,317 10,994 21,507 33,066 Interest capitalised 14,749 Unwinding of discount on environmental obligation 382 236 7,140 33,302 110 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 11.
Taxation 2009 2008 Note US$000 US$000 Current tax UK current tax 470 917 Russian current tax 39,627 19,974 39,157 19,057 Deferred tax Reversal and origination of timing differences 25 13,444 1,414 Total tax charge 52,601 17,643 The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Profit before tax 197,385 40,388 a Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 55,268 11,510 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 11,380 4,517 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures 763 481 Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes 9,106 3,772 Tax effect of tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 7,395 Income not subject to tax 3,731 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 6,409 b Remeasurement of deferred tax change in Russia corporation tax rate 6,306 Adjustments in respect of prior years 77 740 Foreign exchange movements in respect of deductible temporary differences 3,038 11,963 Tax expense for the year 52,601 17,643 a The corporation tax rate in the United Kingdom changed from 30% to 28% effective 1 April 2008. b The corporation tax rate in Russia changed from 24% to 20% effective 1 January 2009.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Earnings per ordinary share 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 a Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of Petropavlovsk PLC 143,194 22,002 a Interest expense on convertible bonds, net of tax 6,708 a Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share 149,902 22,002 a No of shares No of shares a Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares 146,701,446 81,155,052 Adjustments for dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: a Assumed conversion of convertible bonds 9,926,580 a Grant of share options in exchange for share options previously granted to the Directors of Aricom plc 42,049 a Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 156,670,075 81,155,052 a Convertible bonds which could potentially dilute basic earnings per ordinary share were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive for the year ended 31 December 2008.
2009 2008 US$ US$ Basic earnings per ordinary share 0.98 0.27 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 0.96 0.27 As at 31 December 2009, the Group had a potentially dilutive option issued to IFC to subscribe for 1,067,273 Ordinary Shares 31 December 2008: nil and 8,312,463 31 December 2008: nil potentially dilutive warrants which were anti-dilutive for the year ended 31 December 2009 and were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Dividends a 2009 2008 a US$000 US$000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year b a Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 7.5 pence per share 12,166 b a Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 7.5 pence per share 10,828 a 22,994 a Information on dividends declared subsequent to 31 December 2009 is set out in note 38. b US dollar equivalent of dividend payment has been arrived at by translating sterling amounts paid into US dollars at the date of payment.
112 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 14.
Goodwill 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Cost At 1 January 22,161 16,304 Goodwill arising on acquisition of PRP Stancii 5,430 Goodwill arising on acquisition of ZAO PHM Engineering 427 At 31 December 22,161 22,161 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 486 486 Impairment loss At 31 December 486 486 Carrying amount at 31 December 21,675 21,675 Goodwill primarily relates to the Groups investment in Irgiredmet and PRP Stancii.
On the acquisition of Irgiredmet, management determined that cash-generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies are the individual mining projects, which reside in the precious metals and exploration segments.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Irgiredmet in the amount of US$16 million has been allocated for impairment testing purposes in equal parts between the two groups of cash generating units, being precious metals segment and exploration segment.
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of PRP Stancii in the amount of US$5 million has been allocated to the group of cash generating units likely to benefit from acquisition-related synergies, residing in the precious metals segment.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations correspond to the present value of estimated future net cash flows based on ten year budget and business plan approved by management.
Management determined budgeted cash flows based on expected production profile of the existing mining projects using a discount rate of 11.5%, being an estimate of the Groups after tax nominal weighted average cost of capital.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill might be impaired.
Based on the impairment tests carried out at 31 December 2009 and 2008 no goodwill impairment was indicated for Irgiredmet and PRP Stancii.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Intangible assets Yamal Flanks of a Malomir Albyn Tokur deposits Pokrovskiy Kostenginskoye Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2009 41,308 10,390 61,549 62,973 21,635 27,591 225,446 Additions 1,040 24 4,545 176 36 6,839 12,660 Assets acquired through business combination with Aricom plc note 31 27,381 610 27,991 Assets acquired through other business combinations note 31 845 845 b c Impairment 2,702 1,506 35 4,243 Transfer to mine development costs 40,172 11,430 58,871 40,564 151,037 Transfer to mining assets 7,521 7,521 Reallocation 1,136 1,136 Disposals 112 112 At 31 December 2009 25,448 15,426 27,417 35,738 104,029 a Represent amounts capitalised in respect of a number of projects in the Amur and Buryatia regions.
b Following the expiration of the licence to explore the flanks of Tokur deposit and decision to abandon exploration, associated exploration and evaluation costs previously capitalised were written-off.
c Following the decision to abandon exploration of  zone of the yamal deposits, associated exploration and evaluation costs previously capitalised were written off.
yamal Flanks of a Malomir Albyn Tokur deposits Pokrovskiy Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2008 25,483 3,385 58,437 48,641 19,931 14,905 170,782 Additions 15,825 7,005 435 14,661 7,621 12,891 58,438 d Impairment 3,240 3,240 Transfer to mine development costs 205 205 Reallocation 2,677 2,677 Disposals 329 329 At 31 December 2008 41,308 10,390 61,549 62,973 21,635 27,591 225,446 d Following the decision to abandon the licence to explore Voroshilovskoye deposit, associated exploration and evaluation costs previously capitalised were written off.
114 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 16.
The Group is not allowed to pledge these assets as security for other borrowings or sell them to another entity.
Additions to Mine development costs include deferred stripping costs of US$6 million, related to Kurankakh iron ore deposit.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Interests in joint ventures The Group has various interests in jointly-controlled entities as set out in note 40.
These interests are accounted for in accordance with accounting policies as set out in note 2.7.
2009 2008 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 7,427 8,635 a Acquired as part of business combination with Aricom plc note 31 20,077 b Acquired on incorporation 2,021 Share of joint ventures profit loss 2,723 1,261 Unrealised gain loss 350 53 Foreign currency exchange differences 12 At 31 December 31,886 7,427 a In accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement between Aricom and Chinalco to establish a Chinese Titanium Joint Venture project, Heilongjiang Jiatai Titanium Co. Limited, signed and approved by the Chinese Ministry of Commerce on 12 August 2008, the Group holds 65% of the joint venture and 35% is held by Chinalco, with the parties exercising joint control.
The first tranche of US$20.8 million was paid by Aricom in September 2008.
The remaining tranches to be contributed by the Group comprise a US Dollar equivalent of US$48.7 million as at 31 December 2009 and are expected to be made in 2010. b On 19 February 2009, the Group signed the agreement with Heilongjiang Jianlong Steel Company Limited China and Kuranakii Investment Co. Limited HK to establish a Chinese Vanadium Joint Venture project, Heilongjiang Jianlong Vanadium Industries Co. Limited.
The Group holds 46% of the joint venture and the remaining 49% and 5% are held by Heilongjiang Jianlong Steel Company and Kuranakii Investment Co. respectively, with the parties exercising joint control.
The first tranche in the US Dollar equivalent of US$2 million has been paid by the Group in November 2009.
The remaining tranches to be contributed by the Group comprise a US Dollar equivalent of US$4.7 million outstanding as at 31 December 2009 and are to be made in 2010.
The summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly-controlled entities is set out below.
Available-for-sale investments 2009 2008 Note US$000 US$000 Listed securities a Rusoro Mining Limited 2,584 b Unlisted securities Solovyevskiy Priisk 939 940 Verkhnetisskaya GRK 31 12 Other 20 20 3,543 972 a In March 2009, the Group acquired 6,166,666 new shares in Rusoro Mining Limited Rusoro as part of an equity placing by Rusoro for consideration of US$ 3 million.
The Groups stake in the share capital of Rusoro as enlarged by the placing is c. 1.1%.
The investment in Rusoro is recorded at fair value which is determined with reference to the market price of the shares quoted on the stock exchange.
b The value of these investments are recorded at cost as, in the opinion of the Directors, fair values cannot be reliably measured as there are no active markets with quoted market prices.
Inventories 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Current Construction materials 11,181 14,313 Stores and spares 44,619 30,387 Work in progress 34,726 15,960 Deferred stripping costs 8,724 7,476 Bullion in process 2,380 4,196 101,630 72,332 Non-current a Work in progress 8,628 19,078 8,628 19,078 a Non-current inventories comprise long-term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Current VAT recoverable 43,624 24,073 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 41,635 33,030 Advances to suppliers 14,187 5,881 a Trade receivables 3,779 3,857 Loan to Omchak Joint Venture 3,151 3,046 c Exchangeable loan to Rusoro 17,863 Loan to Uralmining 760 Other loans receivable 709 2,734 b Advances paid on resale and commission contracts 785 4,243 Interest accrued 467 408 Other debtors 13,545 7,503 140,505 84,775 Non-current Loan to Odolgo Joint Venture 7,789 6,089 c Exchangeable loan to Rusoro 13,701 Other loans receivable 302 Other assets 765 8,856 19,790 a Amounts included in trade receivables at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 relate mostly to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet.
Trade receivables are due for settlement between one and six months.
All outstanding trade receivables at period end are not past due and are considered recoverable.
b Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties c On 10 June 2008, the Company participated in an US$80 million senior secured exchangeable loan the Exchangeable Loan to Venezuela Holdings BVI Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rusoro Mining Limited Rusoro.
The Company subscribed for US$20 million of the Exchangeable Loan and the remainder of the funds were provided by other parties the Lenders.
The Exchangeable Loan carries an interest rate of 10% per-annum payable semi-annually in arrears and is exchangeable into Rusoro shares at C$1.25 the Rusoro Embedded Derivative.
The loan component is measured at amortised cost, whilst the Rusoro Embedded Derivative is separately fair valued note 24.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
The Groups exposure and credit ratings of its counterparties are monitored by the Board of Directors.
The maximum credit risk of such financial assets is represented by the carrying value of the asset.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
118 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 21.
Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank and in hand 18,607 22,792 Short-term bank deposits 57,344 3,652 Promissory notes and other liquid investments 516 76,467 26,444 22.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 17,871 11,519 Advances from customers 2,487 1,772 a Advances received on resale and commission contracts 5,222 7,438 Accruals and other payables 38,799 21,413 64,379 42,142 a Amounts included in advances paid on resale and commission contracts at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 relate to services performed by the Groups subsidiary, Irgiredmet, in its activity to procure materials such as reagents, consumables and equipment for third parties.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Borrowings 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Borrowings at amortised cost a Convertible bonds 140,663 b Exchangeable bonds 162,863 c Bank loans 95,546 60,198 Other loans 10,000 95,546 373,724 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 11,944 220,946 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 83,602 152,778 95,546 373,724 a In August 2005, the Group issued US$140 million of convertible bonds due on 11 August 2010.
The convertible bonds were issued at par by the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, Peter Hambro Mining Group Finance Limited, and were guaranteed by the Company.
The convertible bonds carried a coupon rate of 7.125% payable semi-annually in arrears and could be converted into fully-paid Ordinary Shares of the Company at the price of 724 pence per share.
If not converted or previously redeemed the convertible bonds would be redeemed at par on maturity.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds were split between the liability component and the equity component of US$1.6 million representing the fair value of the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group.
The liability component of the convertible bonds was measured at amortised cost.
The interest charged for the year was calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 8.3% to the liability component.
The fair value of the liability component of the convertible bonds at 31 December 2008 amounted to US$160.6 million, calculated using cash flows discounted at a rate based on the weighted average external borrowings rate of 12%.
Following satisfaction of the conditions precedent, in November 2009 the Group exercised its option to redeem all of the outstanding convertible bonds prior to their final maturity date.
Bondholders holding a total of US$139.8 million of the nominal amount of the convertible bonds elected to convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares of the Company note 27 b On 19 October 2007, the Group issued US$180 million of bonds, exchangeable, at the discretion of the bond holder, into the cash equivalent of in aggregate 180,000 Troy ounces anytime from 19 October 2009 the second anniversary of the issue date of the exchangeable bonds until 30 September 2012 20 days prior to the maturity of the exchangeable bonds.
The exchangeable bonds were issued at par by the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, Peter Hambro Mining Group Finance Limited, and were guaranteed by the Company.
The bonds carry a coupon rate of 7% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears.
The exchangeable bonds were measured at amortised cost and include embedded derivatives which are separately fair valued note 24.
The carrying value of the liability component of the exchangeable bonds approximated its fair value at 31 December 2008.
The interest charged for the year was calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 10.56% to the liability component measured at amortised cost.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group purchased a total of US$127 million nominal amount of its 7% exchangeable bonds at an average price of US$95.00 plus accrued interest, a total of US$51.9 million nominal amount at an average price of US$109.00 plus accrued interest and a total of US$1.1million nominal amount at an average price of US$104.00 plus accrued interest.
The net gain on redemption of the exchangeable bonds of US$23.7 million recognised during the year as part of financial income was comprised of US$16.7 million excess of cash paid over the carrying amount of liability settled and US$40.4 million gain on unwinding of the embedded derivative financial liability upon redemption notes 7, 24. c On 10 July 2009, the Group entered into a US$60 million loan facility with Sberbank.
The loan bears an annual interest of 9.5%, which has been reduced to 9% starting from 1 January 2010 and further down to 8% starting from 1 March 2010, and is repayable between August 2010 and November 2013.
On 16 December 2009, the Group entered into an up to US$150 million loan facility with US$120 million committed by ING Bank, Unicredit Bank and Raiffeisenbank at that time.
The loan bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.3% and is repayable between December 2010 and December 2012.
In January 2010, Socit Gnrale and BNP joined the facility as lenders and the aggregated amount committed was increased to US$150 million note 38.
As at 31 December 2009, the amounts undrawn under the loan facilities comprised US$80.2 million 2008: all loan facilities have been fully drawn down.
All bank loans outstanding as at 31 December 2009 are secured against certain items of property, plant and equipment of the Group note 16.
Bank loans outstanding as at 31 December 2008 included liabilities of US$46.8 million which were secured against certain items of property, plant and equipment of the Group note 16.
The carrying value of the bank loans and other loans approximated their fair value at each period end.
The weighted average interest rate paid during the year ended 31 December 2009 was 8% 2008: 12%.
120 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 24.
Derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 a Derivative financial assets Rusoro Embedded Derivative Fair value of the Rusoro Embedded Derivative at the beginning of the period and at inception 1,432 6,560 Fair value change 1,338 5,128 94 1,432 a Derivative financial assets Rusoro Call Option Fair value of the Call Option at the beginning of the period and at inception 443 1,780 Fair value change 441 1,337 2 443 Total derivative financial assets 96 1,875 b Derivative financial liabilities Exchangeable Bonds Embedded Derivatives Fair value of Gold Exchangeable Bonds Embedded Derivatives at the beginning of period 41,400 30,634 Fair value change 1,030 10,766 Reduction of the derivative financial liability upon redemption of exchangeable bonds note 23 40,370 41,400 c Derivative financial liabilities Foreign Currency Forward Contract Fair value of the foreign currency forward contract at the beginning of the period and at inception 1,076 Fair value change 70 1,076 Reduction of the derivative financial liability upon settlement of the host contract 1,146 1,076 Total derivative financial liabilities 42,476 a The derivative financial assets recognised at 31 December 2009 and 2008 relate to the Rusoro Embedded Derivative within the Exchangeable Loan and the Call Option.
th Rusoro Embedded Derivative: The Exchangeable Loan issued to Rusoro on 10 June 2008 is exchangeable into Rusoro common shares at C$1.25, at any time from the 30 day after the Drawdown Date of the loan up to six days prior to the Repayment Date or up to the prepayment date in accordance with the loan agreement.
Call Option: On 10 June 2008, the Company entered into an option agreement with the other Lenders, the Call Option, separate from the Exchangeable Loan, giving the Company the right to acquire from the other Lenders, at a price of C$2.20 per share, the Rusoro common shares which such other Lenders may receive upon exchange of their portion of the Exchangeable Loan.
The Call Option may be exercised from the Drawdown Date to 3 June 2010, however may be shortened in the event that the Lenders exchange their portion of the Exchangeable Loan or if prepayment takes place.
b Embedded derivatives within the US$180 million Gold Equivalent Exchangeable Bonds represented a written option to the bond holders and a cap which is held by the Group.
Written Option: A written option for the bond holder to exchange their exchangeable bonds into cash equivalents at the time of exchange of in aggregate up to 180,000 Troy ounces of gold at any time from 19 October 2009 the second anniversary of the issue date of the exchangeable bonds until 30 September 2012 20 days prior to the maturity of the exchangeable bonds.
Cap: The Group has the option to call the exchangeable bonds at par plus accrued interest after 19 October 2011 the fourth anniversary of the issue date provided that the London th afternoon gold price fixing reaches a level of US$1,500 per Troy ounce, with investors retaining the right to convert within the call period up to the 15 day before the date fixed by the call for redemption.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Group purchased all the outstanding US$180 million Gold Equivalent Exchangeable Bonds note 23. c Forward contract to sell US$10 million at the agreed exchange rate between Russian Rouble and US Dollar on 22 April 2009.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are determined using appropriate valuation techniques based on market data.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
Deferred taxation 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 15,523 16,289 Deferred tax credited to income statement 13,444 1,414 Deferred tax arising on acquisition of subsidiaries note 31 59,423 648 Deferred tax charged to equity 110 Exchange differences 20 At 31 December 88,260 15,523 Deferred tax assets 9,318 17,057 Deferred tax liabilities 97,578 32,580 Net deferred tax liability 88,260 15,523 Credited charged Credited charged At 1 January to the income directly to Acquisition of Exchange At 31 December 2009 statement equity subsidiary differences 2009 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 19,569 3,286 59,362 35 82,182 Inventory 6,560 1,820 239 24 8,117 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 2,664 916 3,580 Derivative financial instruments 11,067 11,428 361 Exchangeable bonds 4,251 4,251 Exchangeable loan to Venezuela Holdings BVI Limited 1,735 1,735 Fair value adjustments 10,680 681 9,999 Tax losses 6,518 801 7,319 Other temporary differences 3,553 1,824 110 300 39 1,500 15,523 13,444 110 59,423 20 88,260 122 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Credited charged At 1 January to the income Acquisition of At 31 December 2008 statement subsidiary 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 6,378 13,191 19,569 Inventory 3,660 2,900 6,560 Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure 1,654 1,010 2,664 Derivative financial instruments 8,418 2,649 11,067 Exchangeable bonds 5,030 779 4,251 Exchangeable loan to Venezuela Holdings BVI Limited 1,735 1,735 Fair value adjustments 12,905 2,872 647 10,680 Tax losses 6,518 6,518 Other temporary differences 1,612 1,942 1 3,553 16,289 1,414 648 15,523 The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets in respect of tax losses comprising US$102.7 million 2008: US$17.9 million that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
Tax losses of US$34.5 million can be carried forward indefinitely.
Tax losses of US$68.2 million substantially expire between 2015 and 2019.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$34.5 million 2008: nil in respect of temporary differences arising on certain capitalised development costs.
The Group has not recorded a deferred tax liability in respect of withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings associated with investments in its subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future.
Unremitted earnings comprised in aggregate US$386.2 million 2008: US$217.5 million.
Provision for close down and restoration costs 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 5,246 1,603 Acquisition of Aricom note 31 646 Unwinding of discount 382 236 Foreign exchange movements 67 a Change in estimates 2,314 3,407 At 31 December 8,655 5,246 a Including provision for the close down and restoration costs for the Pioneer mine of US$2.4 million recognised following the Pioneer plant being put into operation in 2008.
The Group recognised provisions in relation to close-down and restoration costs for the following mining sites: Pokrovskiy mine Pioneer mine Kuranakh Provision recognised, US$000 3,017 2008: 2,716 2,648 2008: 2,530 2,990 Expected timing of the closure of a mining operation at least 7 years from at least 10 years from at least 12 years from and the cash outflows 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 Provision recognised represents the present value of estimated expenditure that will be incurred arrived at using the long-term risk-free pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Share capital 2009 2008 No of shares US$000 No of shares US$000 Authorised Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 350,000,000 120,000,000 Allotted, called up and fully paid At 1 January 81,155,052 1,311 81,155,052 1,311 Issued during the period 100,924,715 1,494 At 31 December 182,079,767 2,805 81,155,052 1,311 Details of the Ordinary Shares in issue at the commencement of the period, Ordinary Shares issued during the period, and Ordinary Shares in issue at the period-end are given in the table below.
Date Description No of shares 1 January 2009 Number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the commencement of the year 81,155,052 10 February 2009 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each following a Placing 16,000,000 22 April 2009 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each following 73,928,433 the Aricom Scheme of Arrangement a 19 October 2009 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each following the exercise of options 156,250 b 29 October 2009 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each following the conversion of the convertible bonds 7,753 18 November 2009 Issue of Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each following c 8 December 2009 the conversion of the convertible bonds 10,832,279 31 December 2009 Number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the year 182,079,767 a Options granted under the Share Option Scheme of Aricom plc to the Directors on 19 July 2006 which were exchanged for options over Ordinary Shares of the Company on the acquisition of Aricom plc.
b Converted at the option of the bondholders.
c Converted following the Group having exercised its option to redeem all of the outstanding convertible bonds note 23.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Warrants in issue On the acquisition of Aricom plc, the Company issued 8,312,463 warrants in consideration for the transfer of the Aricom warrants to the Company note 31.
Each warrant confers the right to subscribe for one Ordinary Share of Petropavlovsk PLC at an exercise price of US$17.72, determined by reference to the exchange rate of US$1.384 : 1 to the exercise price of 12.80 which is an equivalent of the exercise price of 0.80 per Aricom warrant, adjusted by the exchange ratio of one Petropavlovsk warrant for every 16 Aricom warrants.
These warrants expire on 9 June 2010.
Issue of options On the acquisition of Aricom plc, the Company issued an option to IFC to subscribe for 1,067,273 Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of 11.84 per share, subject to adjustments, in exchange of an option previously issued by Aricom plc note 31.
The option expires on 25 May 2015, subject to adjustments.
124 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 28.
Own shares 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January Acquired during the year through business combination with Aricom plc 14,003 Balance at 31 December 14,003 Own shares represent 1,812,500 Ordinary Shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT to provide benefits to employees under the Long Term Incentive Plan note 32.
Notes to the cash flow statement a Reconciliation of profit before tax to operating cash flow 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Profit before tax 197,385 40,388 Adjusted for: Share of results in joint ventures 2,723 1,261 Fair value change on derivatives 819 18,307 Financial income 31,480 7,709 Financial expenses 7,140 33,302 Share-based payments 2,933 Depreciation 40,523 22,284 Impairment charges 4,243 3,240 Loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment 230 1,605 Exchange gains losses in respect of investment activity 844 2,838 Exchange losses in respect of cash and cash equivalents 306 3,560 Other non-cash items 520 874 Operating profit before working capital changes 219,052 118,202 Increase in trade and other receivables 24,322 24,516 Increase in inventories 13,313 36,537 Increase in trade and other payables 6,796 1,433 Net cash inflow from operating activities 188,213 58,582 b Major non-cash transactions The principal non-cash transaction were the issue of shares, share options and warrants as consideration for the acquisition of Aricom plc note 31 and conversion of convertible bonds into the Ordinary Shares of Petropavlovsk PLC note 23.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Related parties Related parties the Group entered into transactions with during the reporting period Aricom plc Aricom and its subsidiaries were considered to be related parties due to Mr Peter Hambro, Mr Jay Hambro and Dr Pavel Maslovskiys shareholdings and directorships in those companies and in Petropavlovsk PLC.
On 22 April 2009, Aricom plc became a subsidiary of the Group and hence ceased to be a related party requiring disclosure.
The details of acquisition of Aricom plc are set out in note 31.
OJSC Asian-Pacific Bank Asian-Pacific Bank, V. H. M. y.
Holdings Limited, OJSC M2M Private Bank M2M Private Bank and OJSC Kamchatprombank Kamchatprombank are considered related parties as Mr Peter Hambro and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have an interest in these companies.
Expobank LLC was previously considered a related party as Mr Peter Hambro and Dr Pavel Maslovskiy had an interest in this company.
From July 2008, Expobank LLC ceased to be a related party as at that time it was acquired by Barclays Bank PLC.
OJSC Apatit Apatit, a subsidiary of OJSC PhosAgro PhosAgro, is considered to be a related party due to PhosAgros minority interest and significant influence in the Groups subsidiary Giproruda.
Omchak Joint Venture, Odolgo Joint Venture, Titanium Joint Venture and Vanadium Joint Venture are joint ventures of the Group and hence are related parties.
Uralmining is an associate of the Group and hence is a related party.
Transactions with related parties the Group entered into during the year ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 are set out below.
Trading transactions Related party transactions the Group entered into that relate to the day to day operation of the business are set out below.
Sales to related parties Purchases from related parties 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 a Aricom and its subsidiaries Construction and engineering services 7,327 39,753 1,062 Exploration services 97 1,306 25 Other 1,325 6,136 1,464 4,620 8,749 47,195 2,551 4,620 Expobank Sales of gold and silver 19,056 Sales and purchases of gold through metallic account 15,322 15,267 Other 128 34,378 15,395 Asian-Pacific Bank Sales of gold and silver 33,946 1,642 Other 1,160 1,914 1,008 233 35,106 3,556 1,008 233 Trading transactions with other related parties Engineering services to Apatit 2,051 Rent, insurance and other transactions with other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a significant influence 1,425 2,721 579 Other transactions with Odolgo Joint Venture 18 3,494 2,721 579 47,349 85,129 6,280 20,827 a Until 22 April 2009 when Aricom became a subsidiary of the Group.
126 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2009 and 2008 are set out below.
Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Aricom and its subsidiaries 2,548 3,619 Other entities in which Mr Peter Hambro and or Dr Pavel Maslovskiy have a controlling interest or exercise a significant influence 928 26 1,017 Apatit 398 Odolgo Joint Venture 2 1,328 2,574 1,017 3,619 Banking arrangements The Group has current and deposit bank accounts with Asian-Pacific Bank.
The Group previously held current and deposit bank accounts with Expobank.
The bank balances at 31 December 2009 and 2008 are set out below.
2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Asian-Pacific Bank 27,577 4,423 Financing transactions The Group received a number of loans from related parties details of which are set out below.
Loans received from Interest on loans received Loan and interest amounts related parties from related parties owed to related parties 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 V. H. M. y.
Holding Limited 10,000 375 213 10,000 M2M Private Bank 9,250 463 317 9,250 Asian-Pacific Bank 700 37 23 700 Kamchatprombank 793 9 2 793 20,743 884 555 20,743 The Group provided a number of loans to the joint ventures and associate note 20.
Interest on the loans to the joint ventures and associate comprised US$0.3 million 2008: US$0.2 million.
Key management compensation Key management includes Directors Executive and Non-Executive and members of the Executive Committee.
The compensation to key management for employee services is set out below.
2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 12,085 6,493 Pension costs 249 27 Share-based compensation 2,000 14,334 6,520 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31.
Acquisitions Acquisition of Aricom On 6 February 2009, the Independent Board Committees of the Company and Aricom announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended all share offer to be made by the Company for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Aricom the Merger.
The Merger provided for the acquisition of Aricom shares to be effected by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 1985 involving a capital reduction of Aricom under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985 the Scheme.
The purpose of the Scheme was to enable the Company to acquire the entire issued and to-be-issued ordinary share capital of Aricom.
Under the terms of the Merger, Aricom Shareholders received one fully paid New Petropavlovsk Share in exchange for 16 fully paid Aricom Shares.
The Merger was completed on 22 April 2009.
The total purchase consideration for the acquisition of Aricom was US$585 million.
A summary of the total consideration is set out in the table below.
US$000 a Issue of 73,928,985 Ordinary Shares in Petropavlovsk PLC at the market value of 5.30 571,150 a Issue of 8,312,463 warrants in Petropavlovsk PLC at the market value of 0.33 note 27 3,999 b Issue of an option to IFC to subscribe for 1,067,273 shares of Petropavlovsk PLC note 27 2,970 b LTIP award to replace LTIP awards of Aricom 934 Directly attributable transaction costs 5,896 Total consideration 584,949 a At market value opening position and exchange rate at 22 April 2009. b Measured at fair value using valuation techniques.
The assets and liabilities as of 22 April 2009 arising from the acquisition of Aricom are set out below.
Carrying Fair value amount adjustments Fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 Property, plant and equipment 423,286 80,191 343,095 Intangible assets 27,991 27,991 Investments in associates 4,282 4,282 Interests in joint ventures note 17 20,077 20,077 c Available-for-sale investments 14,003 14,003 Cash and cash equivalents 231,477 231,477 Inventories 11,990 8,753 3,237 Trade and other receivables 29,020 29,020 Trade and other payables 17,854 17,854 Deferred tax liability 5,727 53,696 59,423 Other assets and liabilities, net 4,435 7,321 2,886 Net assets acquired 588,737 Non-controlling interests 3,788 Group share of net assets acquired 584,949 Transaction costs settled in cash 5,896 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 231,477 Cash inflow on acquisition 225,581 c Shares held by Employee Benefit Trust operating in conjunction with LTIP established by Aricom for the benefit of employees of Aricom, converted into shares of Petropavlovsk PLC at the date of acquisition.
128 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009, Aricom contributed US$6.6 million to revenue and US$15 million to operating losses.
If the acquisition of Aricom had been completed on 1 January 2009, Group profit attributable to equity holders of the Company would have been US$116 million while Group revenues for the year would not have been significantly different from those reported in these consolidated financial statements.
Acquisition of Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company On 26 February 2009, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire 69% of the share capital of Closed JSC Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company for the total cash consideration of US$0.6 million.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition of Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company are set out below.
Carrying amount and fair value US$000 Intangible assets 845 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Trade and other payables 8 Fair value of net assets acquired 841 Non-controlling interests 252 Total consideration 589 Purchase consideration settled in cash 589 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 Cash outflow on acquisition 585 From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009, the contribution of Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company to revenue and operating profit was not significant.
If the acquisition of Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company had been completed on 1 January 2009, Group revenues and Group profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the year would not have been significantly different from those reported in these financial statements.
Share-based payments The Group operates various equity-settled share awards schemes.
The details of share awards outstanding are set out below.
Share option scheme LTIP awards granted on 22 April 2009 granted on 25 June 2009 Number of Exercise Number of Exercise Number of Exercise Ordinary price Ordinary price Ordinary price Shares Shares Shares Outstanding at 1 January 2009 Aricom share awards exchanged for the share awards of the Company 231,250 6.72 430,768 Granted during the year 482,961 Forfeited during the year Exercised during the year 156,250 6.72 Expired during the year Outstanding at 31 December 2009 75,000 6.72 430,768 482,961 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Share-based payments continued Employee share option scheme As part of business combination with Aricom plc, the outstanding options granted under the Share Option Scheme of Aricom plc to its Directors in prior years have been exchanged for options over Ordinary Shares of Petropavlovsk PLC, exercisable during the period since 19 July 2009 until 19 July 2012.
No further options will be granted under the Share Option Scheme by the Group.
The fair value of share awards under Employee share option scheme are determined using the Black Scholes model at the date of grant using the assumptions set out below.
Employee share option scheme Date of grant 22 April 2009 Share price at the date of grant, 5.20 Exercise price, 6.72 Expected volatility, % 102.14 Expected life in years 0.24 Risk-free rate, % 0.86 Expected dividends, Fair value per award, 0.57 The Replacement Long Term Incentive Plan the Replacement LTIP On acquisition of Aricom plc, the LTIP established by Aricom plc to operate in conjunction with an Employee Benefit Trust EBT, which held shares in Aricom plc for the benefit of its employees the participants, has been replaced with awards over the Companys shares.
As a result, 29,000,000 ordinary shares of Aricom plc held by the EBT have been exchanged into 1,812,500 Ordinary Shares of the Company, out of which 430,768 shares have been allocated to the existing participants of the LTIP.
The Replacement LTIP award has a sole performance condition being continued employment with the Group throughout the period until 6 February 2010 or a good leaver status.
The fair value of share awards under the Replacement LTIP are determined using the Black Scholes model at the date of grant using the assumptions set out below.
The Replacement LTIP award Date of grant 22 April 2009 Share price at the date of grant, 5.20 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 119.86 Expected life in years 0.81 Risk-free rate, % 0.87 Expected dividends, Fair value per award, 5.20 130 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Petropavlovsk PLC Long Term Incentive Plan the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP The Group established a new Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP which was approved by the shareholders of the Company on 25 June 2009 and includes the following awards: Share Option Award, being a right to acquire a specified number of Ordinary Shares in the Company at a specified exercise price: Performance Share Award, being a right to acquire a specified amount of Ordinary Shares in the Company at nil cost: and Deferred Bonus Award.
Performance Share Awards and Share Options Awards vest or become exercisable subject to the following provisions: 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on a condition relating to total shareholder return the TSR Condition : and 50% of the shares subject to the award may be acquired based on specific conditions relating to the Groups business development and strategic plans the Operating Conditions.
The TSR Condition relates to growth in TSR over a three year period relative to the TSR growth of companies in a peer group of listed international mining companies selected upon establishment of the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP the Comparator Group over the same period.
The TSR Condition provides for the award to vest or become exercisable as follows: % of the award vesting Within top decile 50% At median 25% Below median The detailed requirements to the Operating Conditions are determined by the Remuneration Committee and will be measured over a three year period from the date of grant.
Initial performance share awards under the Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP were granted on 25 June 2009 with 482,961 shares allocated to certain Executive Directors and members of senior management of the Group, out of which 296,297 shares are held by the EBT and the Company assumed the obligation to issue the remaining shares upon vesting of the LTIP.
The fair value of performance share awards was determined using the Black Scholes model at the date of grant in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the operating performance conditions and using the Monte Carlo model in relation to the proportion of the awards vesting based on the TSR condition.
The relevant assumptions are set out below.
Petropavlovsk PLC LTIP performance share awards vesting based on operating vesting based performance on TSR conditions Condition Date of grant 25 June 2009 25 June 2009 Number of performance share awards granted 241,480 241,481 Share price at the date of grant, 6.00 6.00 Exercise price, Expected volatility, % 72.98 72.98 Expected life in years 3 3 Risk-free rate, % 2.13 2.13 Expected dividends yield, % 1.25 1.25 Expected annual forfeitures Fair value per award, 4.083 5.778 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Financial instruments and financial risk management Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to optimise the weighted average cost of capital and tax efficiency subject to maintaining sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt as detailed in note 33 and equity comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
As at 31 December 2009, the capital comprised US$1.3 million 2008: US$0.7 million.
The Group is not subject to any externally-imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Categories of financial instruments 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 76,467 26,444 Fair value through profit or loss derivative financial instruments 96 1,875 Loans and receivables 48,278 37,338 Available-for-sale investments 3,543 972 Financial liabilities At amortised cost trade and other payables 56,653 32,932 At amortised cost borrowings 95,546 373,724 Fair value through profit or loss derivative financial instruments 42,476 Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, risk of change in the gold price, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central finance department and all key risk management decisions are approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group identifies and evaluates financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as guidance covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, gold price risk, credit risk and investment of excess liquidity.
132 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Interest rate risk management The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through borrowing at floating interest rates.
During the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, this exposure was limited as the substantial portion of the Groups borrowings had fixed interest rates attached.
The Group also held cash on deposits with fixed rates of interest attached.
At present, the Group does not undertake any interest rate hedging activities.
The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on exposure to interest rates for the average balance of floating interest bearing borrowings and cash and cash equivalents held during the year.
If interest rates had been 1% higher lower and all other variables held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2009 would decrease increase by US$0.05 million 2008: decrease increase by US$0.12 million.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
Exchange rate risk The Group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies, namely GB Pounds Sterling and Russian Roubles and is therefore exposed to exchange rate risk associated with fluctuations in the relative values of US Dollars, GB Pounds Sterling and Russian Roubles.
Exchange rate risks are mitigated to the extent considered necessary by the Board of Directors, through holding the relevant currencies.
At present, the Group does not undertake any foreign currency transaction hedging.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at period end are set out below.
Assets Liabilities 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Russian Roubles 95,765 71,316 34,335 6,972 US Dollars a 3,346 GB Pounds Sterling 2,703 1,676 14,708 3,792 Other currencies 475 a US Dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities in Group companies with Rouble functional currency.
The following table illustrates the Groups profit sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies in which it transacts.
A 25% movement has been applied to each currency in the table below for the year ended 31 December 2009, representing managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange currency rates 2008: a 25% movement was applied to each currency in the table.
2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Russian Roubles currency impact 15,357 16,086 GB Pounds Sterling currency impact 3,002 529 US Dollar currency impact 837 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, comprising current accounts, amounts held on deposit with financial institutions and investments in money market and liquidity funds.
In the case of deposits and investments in money market and liquidity funds, the Group is exposed to a credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
The credit risk on liquid funds held in current accounts and available on demand is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies, with the exception to Asian-Pacific Bank, which does not have an officially assigned credit rating.
Having performed a high-level due diligence, management does not consider the credit risk associated with AsianPacific Bank is high.
Asian-Pacific Bank has a wide network of branches in the Amur region and, therefore, is extensively used by the entities of the precious metals segment note 30.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
The major counterparties at the balance sheet date are set out below.
Carrying Carrying amount at amount at 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Type of financial asset Counterparty Credit rating US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents Expobank Ba1 12,724 Cash and cash equivalents Asian-Pacific Bank 27,578 4,423 Cash and cash equivalents Unicredit Bank BBB 31,196 Cash and cash equivalents UBS Aa3 6,283 Cash and cash equivalents VTB Baa1 4,369 Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of gold.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at the prevailing market price.
The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the gold price.
During the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008, the Group was exposed to gold price risk through the embedded derivative within the gold equivalent exchangeable bonds, which were measured at fair value and, therefore, exposed to changes in the gold price.
Following the Group having repurchased all its outstanding gold equivalent exchangeable bonds, the exposure is no longer relevant to the Group.
Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk through the Embedded Derivative within the Exchangeable Loan issued to Rusoro and the Call Option as well as investment in Rusoro shares, which are measured at fair value and therefore exposed to changes in the Rusoro share price.
An increase decrease of 50% in the Rusoro share price, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in the following impact on the income statement and income and expenses recognised directly in equity: 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Income and Income and expense expense recognised recognised Income directly in Income directly in statement equity statement equity 50% increase in the share price 579 1,291 4,780 50% decrease in the share price 96 1,291 1,415 134 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk is the risk that suitable sources of funding for the Groups business activities may not be available.
The Group constantly monitors the level of funding required to meet its short-, mediumand long-term obligations.
Effective management of liquidity risk has the objective of ensuring the availability of adequate funding to meet short-term requirements and due obligations, as well as the objective of ensuring a sufficient level of flexibility in order to fund the development plans of the companys businesses.
The table below details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay.
0 3 months 3 months 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 5 years US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2009 Borrowings Convertible bonds note 23 Exchangeable bonds note 23 Loans 11,944 35,778 31,331 16,493 a Expected future interest payments 1,475 5,691 7,738 6,989 3,895 Trade and other payables 55,316 1,337 56,791 18,972 43,516 38,320 20,388 2008 Borrowings Convertible bonds note 23 140,000 Exchangeable bonds note 23 180,000 Loans 4,948 49,250 16,000 a Expected future interest payments 7,196 22,248 11,178 301 Trade and other payables 32,932 45,076 251,498 151,178 16,301 a Expected future interest payments have been estimated using interest rates applicable at 31 December.
Loans outstanding at 31 December 2009 in the amount of US$40 million 2008: US$16 million are subject to variable interest rates and, therefore, subject to change in line with the market rates.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35.
Operating lease arrangements The Group as a Lessee 2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 3,907 2,011 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under a non-cancellable operating lease for office premises, which fall due as set out below.
2009 2008 US$000 US$000 Expiring Within one year 1,724 188 In two to five years 3,274 703 4,998 891 The Group as a Lessor The Group earned property rental income during the year of US$2.2 million 2008: US$2.2 million on buildings owned by its subsidiaries Irgiredment and Giproruda.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and mine development costs amounting to US$45.5 million 2008: US$52.8 million.
Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in legal proceedings with Gatnom Capital & Finance Limited and O. M. Investments & Finance Limited, who are the minority shareholders in Lapwing Limited, the Groups 99.58% owned subsidiary incorporated in Cyprus and holding a 100% interest in Garinsky Mining and Matallurgical Complex.
The claim was filed in September 2008 in Cyprus and the respondents are Lapwing Limited and Aricom UK Limited.
The claimants allege their holdings in Lapwing Limited were improperly diluted as the result of the issuance of additional shares following a shareholders meeting held in September 2007.
The claimants have asked the court to dissolve Lapwing or, alternatively, to order that their shares be purchased at a price allegedly previously agreed upon or to be determined by an expert appointed by the court.
On 20 January 2010, the claimants withdrew their composite claim and re-filed individual claims in substantially similar form.
The maximum potential liability arising from the claim cannot currently be accurately assessed although the Directors believe that the claim is of a limited merit.
136 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 38.
Subsequent events In January 2010, Socit Gnrale and BNP joined the up to US$150 million loan facility note 23 as lenders under the same terms and conditions as the original lenders and the aggregated amount committed under this facility was increased to US$150 million.
On 20 January 2010, the Board of Directors approved an interim dividend of 0.07 per share which is expected to result in the aggregate payment of 12.6 million.
The dividends will be paid on 30 March 2010 to the Companys shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 February 2010.
In February 2010, the Group issued US$380 million convertible bonds due on 18 February 2015 the Bonds.
The Bonds were issued at par by the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited and are guaranteed by the Company.
The Bonds carry a coupon of 4.00% payable semi-annually in arrears and are convertible into redeemable preference shares of Petropavlovsk 2010 Limited which are guaranteed by and will be exchangeable immediately upon issuance for Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The conversion price has been set at 12.9345 per share, subject to adjustment, for each US$100,000 principal amount of a Bond and the conversion exchange rate has been fixed at US$1.6244 per 1.
The Bonds were admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange on 18 February 2010.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures 2009 2008 Note US$000 US$000 Profit for the period 144,784 22,745 Add less : Financial expense 10 7,140 33,302 Financial income 9 31,480 7,709 Foreign exchange losses gains 6 5,905 25,013 Fair value change on derivatives 24 819 18,307 Taxation 11 52,601 17,643 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 6 44,766 25,524 a Other items 6 1,562 Underlying EBITDA 224,535 136,387 a Bank charges reported within Financial expense items for year ended 31 December 2008.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 40.
Group companies The Group has the following material subsidiaries and other significant investments, which were consolidated in this financial information.
Effective proportion of shares Effective proportion of shares held by the Parent held by the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2009 2008 2009 2008 Subsidiary Peter Hambro Mining Group Finance Limited Guernsey Finance company 100% 100% CJSC Management Company Petropavlovsk Russia Management company 100% 100% a LLC Aricom Russia Management company 100% OJSC Pokrovskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 43.5% 43.5% 55.1% 55.1% CJSC Amur Dor Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% OJSC ZDP Koboldo Russia Gold exploration and production 95.7% 95.7% LLC Elga Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC Malomirskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 98.6% 98.6% LLC Spanch Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Olga Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Osipkan Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Tokurskiy Rudnik Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% LLC Rudoperspektiva Russia Gold exploration and production 100% 100% CJSC Region Russia Gold exploration and production 98.6% 98.6% CJSC Verkhnetisskaya Ore Mining Company Russia Gold exploration and production 70% CJSC yamalZoloto Russia Gold exploration and production 98.6% 98.6% OJSC yamalskaya Gornaya Kompania Russia Gold exploration and production 74.87% 74.87% Chrome exploration and CJSC SeverChrome Russia production 92.26% 92.26% a LLC Olekminsky Rudnik Russia Iron ore exploration and production 100% LLC Kimkano-Sutarskiy a Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 100% LLC Garinsky Mining & a Metallurgical Complex Russia Iron ore exploration and production 99.58% LLC Kostenginskiy a Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 100% LLC Orlovo-Sokhatinsky a Gorno-Obogatitelniy Kombinat Russia Iron ore exploration and production 100% a LLC Karier Ushumunskiy Russia Iron ore exploration and production 100% LLC Kapstroi Russia Construction 100% 98.6% LLC NPGF Regis Russia Exploration 100% 100% CJSCZRK Dalgeologiya Russia Exploration work 98.6% 98.6% CJSC PHM Engineering Russia Project and engineering services 79% 79% OJSC Irgiredmet Russia Research services 99.85% 99.84% LLC NIC Hydrometallurgia Russia Research services 100% 100% a OJSC Giproruda Russia Engineering services 70.28% OJSC PRP Stancii Russia Repair and maintenance 100% 98.6% LLC Obereg Russia Security services 100% a LLC Rubicon Russia Infrastructure project 100% a CJSC SGMTP Russia Infrastructure project 100% LLC AmurSnab Russia Procurement services 100% 138 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Effective proportion of shares Effective proportion of shares held by the Parent held by the Group Principal subsidiary, joint venture and Country of 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December associate undertakings incorporation Principal activity 2009 2008 2009 2008 Joint Venture CJSC ZRK Omchak Russia Gold exploration and production 50% 50% b LLC GDK Odolgo Russia Gold exploration and production 49% 49% a Heilongjiang Jiatal Titanium Co. Limited China Titanium Joint Venture project 65% Heilongjiang Jianlong Vanadium Industries Co. Limited China Vanadium Joint Venture project 46% Associate a LLC Uralmining Russia Iron ore exploration and production 49% a Subsidiary, joint venture and associate undertakings acquired as part of acquisition of Aricom plc note 31. b Formerly, the Rudnoye joint venture.
CJSC Rudnoye has been liquidated and the operations conducted through the Rudnoye joint venture were taken over by LLC GDK Odolgo, the owner of the relevant licences.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 139
