Strategy to deliver: Profitability and efficiency OP ERATIONAL S TRUCTURE The Group has an organisational structure in place to ensure that its operations are managed efficiently and effectively.
The Board of Directors is supported by an Executive Committee, appointed by the Board, and a strong and experienced operational management team.
Board of Directors The Executive Committee Board Committees The Board currently consists of nine The Board has appointed an Executive In addition to the Executive Committee, Directors: three Executive Peter Hambro, Committee consisting of senior the Board has established an Audit Pavel Maslovskiy and Brian Egan and six management and has delegated to this Committee, a Remuneration Committee, Non-Executive Graham Birch, Sir Malcolm committee the authority to make decisions a Risk Committee, a Nomination Field, Lord Guthrie, Peter Hill-Wood, relating to the day-to-day management of Committee and an HSE Committee.
Sir Roderic Lyne and Charles McVeigh.
the Company and to ensure that the overall These committees monitor, review and Peter Hill-Wood is the Senior Independent objectives and targets set out by the Board make recommendations to the Board.
Biographies of the Directors may are achieved.
The current membership of these be found on pages 52 and 53 of the committees is shown on page 66 The Executive Committee has the authority Annual Report and Accounts.
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
to approve transactions considered to The Board meets regularly during each be in the ordinary course of business Operational Management year and details of the number of Board and to approve expenditure and financial and Committee meetings held during the commitments in accordance with limits The Group has a strong and experienced year under review are found on page 63 previously agreed by the Board.
The operational team on the ground, many of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Executive Committee has a duty to further of whom have been with the Group since the strategy, business objectives and inception.
This team is responsible for The Board is responsible for the targets established by the Board and overseeing the day-to-day running of each determination and monitoring of the to manage the Companys operations, of the Groups key departments, operations Companys strategic aims, budgets, major financial, administration, health and safety and subsidiaries.
The operational team items of capital expenditure and senior and environmental performance.
The has close contact with members of the appointments, the direction and control Executive Committee is also responsible Executive Committee and regularly reports of the Company and the management of for maintaining relationships with both directly to them and to the Board the capital structure.
The Board ensures shareholders and other key stakeholders, and the Board Committees.
that the necessary financial and human for investigating merger and acquisition resources are, and will continue to be, in opportunities and for reviewing internal Corporate Governance place to enable the Company to meet its control and risk management.
The Board works closely with The Company is committed to high the operational management to achieve Executive Committee members are based standards of corporate governance and the Companys objectives.
The Board has at the Groups Head Office in London, details of how the Company has applied adopted a formal schedule of matters at its management office in Moscow and the Main Principles set out in Section 1 reserved for its decision, and further details at its regional offices in Blagoveschensk of The Combined Code on Corporate are found on page 63 of the Annual Report and Birobidjan in the Russian Far East.
Governance published by the Financial and Accounts.
The roles of the Chairman The Committee meets monthly.
Reporting Council in June 2008 the and Chief Executive are also clearly Combined Code are set out in the defined and further details are found on Corporate Governance Report on pages pages 64 and 65 of the Annual Report 62 to 69 of the Annual Report and and Accounts.
The Board has also adopted terms of reference for its Committees, available on the Companys website at www.
net and the operation of these committees is within the scope For further details about of these terms of reference.
52 Board of Directors 18 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information k k k Governance k k Boar Board of Dir d of Direct ectors ors The Ex The Executive Committ ecutive Committee ee K Key Oper ey Operational Management ational Management Responsible for str Responsible for strat ategy egy R Re es sp po on ns siib blle e f fo or r e ex xe ec cu ut tiio on n Responsible for deliver Responsible for delivery y and governance and governance and implementation and implementation Executive Directors: Peter Hambro Sergei Ermolenko Chairman General Director of Petropavlovsk Peter Hambro Management Company Chairman Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Chief Executive Valery Alekseev Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Group Head of Construction and Chief Executive Brian Egan Engineering: General Director of Chief Financial Officer Kapstroi Brian Egan Chief Financial Officer Alexei Maslovskiy Andrey Lushei Group Head, Business Development Deputy General Director of Petropavlovsk Management Company Non-Executive Directors: Dmitry Chekashkin Group Head, Precious Metals Nikolai Vlasov Dr Graham Birch Operations Group Head of Exploration Non-Executive Director Jay Hambro Vladimir Shevchenko Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank Chief Investment Officer Financial Director of Precious Non-Executive Director Metals Division Yuri Makarov Sir Malcolm Field Group Head, Non-Precious Metals Danila Kotlyarov Non-Executive Director Operations Financial Director of Non-Precious Metals Division Peter Hill-Wood Andrey Maruta Senior Non-Executive Director Group Financial Controller Alexei Karskanov General Director of Pokrovskiy Rudnik Sir Roderic Lyne Dr Alya Samokhvalova Pokrovskiy and Pioneer mines Non-Executive Director Group Head, External Communications Anatoly Kochubey Charles McVeigh Martin Smith General Director of Malomirskiy Rudnik Non-Executive Director Group Head, Technical Services Malomir mine Karolina Subczynska Group Head of Legal Affairs Andrey Tarasov Head of Corporate Affairs, Russia v Accountability Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 k k
