22 Share-based payments The Group has several share option schemes in current operation, whereby options over shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
The different schemes are described below, but all options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant, except for those options within the SAYE and ESPP schemes as detailed below.
Furthermore, from 2006, the Company has issued Restricted Stock Units RSUs to employees instead of options which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to employees will be in RSUs.
Under the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Company may grant options to employees meeting certain eligibility requirements.
Options under the Executive Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
The Company also operates the US ISO Scheme, which is substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue.
Under both of these schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Various options to directors under the Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached, which if met are exercisable after three years, otherwise they will become exercisable after seven years.
There are further schemes for our French and Belgian employees the French Scheme and the Belgian Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are exercisable between four and seven years after their issue, whilst in the Belgian Scheme, options are exercisable from 1 January following the third anniversary after their issue, up to seven years from issue.
Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
The schemes assumed were the 1993 Plan, the 1997 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2003 Plan, the Director Plan, the Executive Plan and the ND00 Plan.
Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.
The Company also offers savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all non-US employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants made in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the grant, but in previous years was set at 85%, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savingsrelated option scheme for US employees, namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest similarly to the unapproved scheme above, namely 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a further matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period.
95 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Share-based payments continued As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 19.0 million 2008: 15.4 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1.
The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2009 is shown below.
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
