Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1a General information about the Group The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energyefficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs and application-specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including cellular phones, digital televisions and PC peripherals and for potential use in many growing markets, including smart cards and microcontrollers.
The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
Incorporation and history ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered office of the Company is 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ.
The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17 April 1998.
Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, ARM Belgium NV incorporated in Belgium, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited incorporated in India, ARM Physical IP Asia Pacific Pte.
Limited incorporated in Singapore, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan and ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
This is in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale investments: share-based payments: financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement: and embedded derivatives.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of these financial statements requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are summarised in note 1d.
