Options under the Executive Scheme are exercisable between three and ten years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
Under the Companys Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, for which it has not sought approval from the UK tax authorities, options are exercisable one to seven years after their issue, after which time the options expire.
The Company also operates the US ISO Scheme, which is substantially the same as the Unapproved Scheme, the main difference being that the options are exercisable one to five years after their issue.
Under both of these schemes options are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum on first anniversary, 50% maximum on second anniversary, 75% maximum on third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
Various options to directors under the Unapproved Scheme have certain performance criteria attached, which if met are exerciseable after three years, otherwise they will become exerciseable after seven years.
There are further schemes for our French and Belgian employees the French Scheme and the Belgian Scheme.
In the French Scheme, options are exercisable between four and seven years after their issue, whilst in the Belgian Scheme, options are exercisable from 1 January following the third anniversary after their issue, up to seven years from issue.
Upon the acquisition of Artisan in 2004, the Company assumed the share schemes of Artisan existing at acquisition.
The schemes remained substantially the same as prior to the acquisition, other than the options became options to purchase shares in ARM Holdings plc instead of Artisan Components Inc.
The number and value of options were amended in line with the conversion ratio as detailed in the merger agreement.
The schemes assumed were the 1993 Plan, the 2000 Plan, the 2003 Plan and the ND00 Plan.
Under each plan, there are multiple vesting templates and vesting periods.
The majority of the options were already vested upon acquisition, and the most common template was 25% vesting after one year, and then 6.25% vesting each quarter thereafter, until 100% vest after four years.
Some options vest on a monthly basis, and some vest over five years.
All options lapse ten years from the date of grant.
The Company also operates savings-related share option schemes SAYE for all employees and executive directors of the Group, except for ARM Inc.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is either three or five years.
The option price for grants made in 2007 and 2008 was set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the scheme, but in previous years was set at 85%, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
In 2007, the Company commenced a new savings-related option scheme for employees of ARM Inc. namely the Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
The Company also issues restricted stock units RSUs to employees which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest similarly to the unapproved scheme above, namely 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Whilst the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward, the majority of awards to employees will be in RSUs.
Additionally, the Company operates a Deferred Annual Bonus plan DAB.
Under the DAB, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a further matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
The Company also operates the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances and related items, please refer to note 22 in the IFRS accounts within these financial statements.
