68 Directors report continued Environment Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial management and its obligation to protect the environment.
statements for each financial year.
The Directors have prepared the The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with International Further information appears in the Corporate Social Responsibility Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Report of the Business Review.
Union and the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Substantial shareholdings The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair At 15 April 2009 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
of the following notifiable voting rights in its ordinary share capital: In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: % select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Fidelity International 12.07 Prudential plc 9.09 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Artemis Investment 6.76 prudent: UBS Global Asset Management 6.01 state that the Consolidated Financial Statements comply with Axa Investment Managers UK Ltd 5.16 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent Newton Investment 4.97 company financial statements comply with UK GAAP: and Blackrock 4.84 Legal and General plc 3.94 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company or Group, as appropriate, will continue in business, in which case there Independent Auditors should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Audit information financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable Each of the Directors confirms that so far as he or she is aware, them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, auditors are unaware and that he or she has taken all steps that he as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Companys 2009 Annual General Meeting The 2009 financial statements will be published on the Company's at Maybrook Distribution Centre, Castleton Road, Leeds, LS12 2EN web site in addition to the normal paper version.
The Directors are on 16 June 2009 at 10:30 a. m. is set out in a separate document responsible for maintenance and integrity of this electronic version of issued to shareholders.
the financial statements to the same extent as for the paper version.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not include consideration The Directors Report for the year ended 1 February 2009 of the maintenance and integrity of the web site.
comprises these pages 66 to 68 and the other sections and pages of the Annual Report cross-referred to above, which sections and Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 pages are incorporated by reference.
Each of the Directors, as listed on page 59, confirms that, to the By order of the Board best of his or her knowledge: Steven Webb a the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, Secretary which have been prepared in accordance with International Farnell House Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, Forge Lane IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 Leeds LS12 2NE applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and the Company Financial Statements in this report which have been prepared in 17 April 2009 accordance with UK GAAP give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group or of the Company, respectively, taken as a whole: and b the Business Review contained in this Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
