81 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounting Policies R Consolidated Financial Statements Premier Farnell plc the Company is a company incorporated and of changes in equity, requiring non-owner changes in equity domiciled in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
to be presented separately from owner changes in equity.
The address of the Companys registered office is Farnell House, The Group will apply IAS 1 revised from 2 February 2009 Forge Lane, Leeds, LS12 2NE, England.
The Companys registered which will only have a presentation impact.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment deals with vesting These Consolidated Financial Statements have been approved by conditions and cancellations.
The Group will apply IFRS 2 the Board of Directors on 17 April 2009. amendment from 2 February 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Basis of preparation IFRS 1 amendment, First time adoption of IFRS, and IAS 27, These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared Consolidated and separate financial statements.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations.
The revised standard Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union continues to apply the acquisition method to business EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable combinations, with some significant changes.
The Group will to companies reporting under IFRSs.
These Consolidated apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to all business combinations Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical from 1 February 2010, subject to endorsement by the EU.
cost convention with the exception of derivative financial IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets.
The Group will instruments, post-retirement benefits and share-based payments apply the IAS 36 amendment and provide the required which are recognised at fair value.
A summary of the more disclosure where applicable for impairment tests from 2 February important Group accounting policies adopted in the preparation 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
of the Consolidated Financial Statements is set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years IAS 19 amendment, Employee benefits.
The amendment is presented, unless otherwise stated.
part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
The Group will apply the IAS 19 amendment from a Amendments to published standards and interpretations 2 February 2009. effective for the year ended 1 February 2009 IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets.
The Group will apply this IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum standard from 2 February 2009, subject to its endorsement by funding requirements and their interaction.
This interpretation the EU, but it will not have a significant impact on the Groups does not have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and This interpretation does not have any impact on the Groups measurement.
The amendment is part of the IASBs annual financial statements.
improvements project published in May 2008.
The Group will apply the IAS 39 amendment from 2 February 2009.
It is not b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective expected to have an impact on the Groups income statement.
for the year ended 1 February 2009 but not relevant The following standards, amendments and interpretations to There are a number of minor amendments to IFRS 7, Financial published standards are mandatory for accounting periods instruments: Disclosures, IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but have no material in accounting estimates and errors, IAS 10, Events after the impact on the Group: reporting period, IAS 18, Revenue, and IAS 34, Interim financial reporting, which are part of the IASBs annual IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements: and improvements project published in May 2008 not addressed IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes.
These amendments, subject to endorsement by the EU, are unlikely to have an impact on the Groups financial statements c Standards and interpretations to existing standards that and have, therefore, not been analysed in detail.
are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
the Group IFRIC 16 clarifies the accounting treatment in respect of net The following standards and interpretations to existing standards investment hedging.
The Group will apply IFRIC 16 from 2 have been published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting February 2009.
It is not expected to have a material impact on periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but the Groups financial statements.
which the Group has not early adopted.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the above Standards IFRS 8, Operating segments requires a management and Interpretations in paragraph c on the effective date will not approach, under which segment information is presented have a significant impact on the Groups financial results.
on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
IFRS 8 will be adopted from 2 February 2009 and will only have d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet an impact on the Groups segmental disclosure.
effective and not relevant for the Groups operations The following interpretations to existing standards have been IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements effective for published that are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but are not standard will prohibit the presentation of items of income and relevant for the Groups operations: expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity in the statement 82 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements continued IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the results of the IAS 32 amendment, Financial Instruments: Presentation, Company and each of its subsidiaries for the financial year ended and IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial 1 February 2009, a 52 week period financial year ended 3 February statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations 2008: 53 week period.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the arising on liquidation.
Group where control is deemed to exist when the Group has the IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating statements.
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held-for-sale and Statements from the date the control commences until the date discontinued operations, and consequential amendment that control ceases.
Intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates and consolidation.
consequential amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Business combinations and goodwill IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
All business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
IAS 16 amendment, Property, plant and equipment and consequential amendment to IAS 7, Statement of cash flows.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration paid exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired.
IAS 27 amendment, Consolidated and separate financial Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1 February 1998 and prior to statements.
2 February 2004, the transition date to IFRS, was capitalised and IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates and amortised over its estimated useful life.
As a result of the transition consequential amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: to IFRS, such amortisation ceased on the transition date to IFRS.
Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 February 1998 was written off directly to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Under IFRS 1 IAS 29 amendment, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary and IFRS 3 such goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves economies.
and will not be written back to the income statement in the event IAS 31 amendment, Interests in joint ventures, and of a disposal.
consequential amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7.
Revenue recognition IAS 40 amendment, Investment property and consequential Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods to outside amendments to IAS 16. customers, excluding value added and sales taxes, and is IAS 41 amendment, Agriculture.
recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to a third party.
IAS 20 amendment, Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance.
Segment reporting The minor amendments to IAS 20 Accounting for government A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that grants and disclosure of government assistance, and IAS 29, is engaged in providing products business segment, or in Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies, IAS 40, providing products within a particular economic environment Investment property, and IAS 41, Agriculture, which are part of geographic segment, and where the risks and returns are the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008. different between components.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates.
Expense classification IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners.
Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers including the cost of freight, packaging and inventory adjustments.
IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers.
Distribution costs represent all operating expenses including sales, The financial statements of the Company, which have been marketing, product and purchasing, warehousing, information prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, are presented on technology and electronic commerce.
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of central head office Key sources of estimation and uncertainty and the Group Board.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally Non-recurring charges credits that are considered to be sufficiently accepted accounting principles requires management to make significant to have a material impact on the Groups financial estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of results are disclosed in the appropriate category on the face of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and the income statement.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the key areas are summarised below: The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the carrying value of assets and liabilities are: The estimation of the cost of pensions and other post retirement benefits note 27 : The estimation of the net realisable value of inventory: and The estimation of the recoverable amount of goodwill used when assessing goodwill for impairment note 8.
83 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Foreign currency translation Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic investment in a foreign operation that is determined as an effective environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss on any The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling Leases at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on The costs of operating leases are charged to the income statement trading transactions are included in the Group income statement as they fall due.
except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net investment hedges, which, along with other Dilapidation provisions exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs on leased with through reserves.
properties prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have lease term.
Provision for such costs are made where a legal a functional currency different from the presentation currency are obligation is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
translated into the presentation currency as follows: Property, plant and equipment assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: calculated to write off the cost of the individual assets, less the income and expenses for each income statement are translated estimated residual value, from the time it becomes operational at the average exchange rate for the period: and by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
with effect from the transition date to IFRS all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity Depreciation rates are principally as follows: and included in the Groups cumulative translation reserve.
Freehold land not depreciated When a foreign entity is sold, such translation differences are Freehold buildings 50 years recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or Plant and equipment between 5 and 10 years loss on sale.
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment when Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Interest is not capitalised.
entity and translated at the closing rate.
Intangible assets Financial instruments Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its to acquire and bring to use the specific software and includes exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from capitalised internal labour where appropriate.
These costs are operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, its treasury policy, the Group does not have or issue speculative between three and five years.
All transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underlying business requirement.
Other intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recognised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: At period ends, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised in the income statement.
However, where derivatives Contractually-based customer relationships 10 or 20 years qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain Patents 18 years or loss will depend upon the nature of the item being hedged see accounting policy on hedging.
Hedging Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into profit or loss in the same period s during which the interest income expense is recognised.
For other cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period s as which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge, or when the hedge no longer meets the hedging criteria, is immediately recognised in the income statement.
84 Accounting Policies Consolidated Financial Statements continued Impairment Other post-retirement benefits The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill and indefinite In the US, the Group provides unfunded post-retirement medical lived intangible assets are reviewed annually, or when there benefits to certain US employees.
The expected costs of these are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose plans.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of impairment testing.
If any such indication exists, the assets of Recognised Income and Expense.
recoverable amount is estimated and if the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, a loss is recognised in the income Share-based payments statement.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets The Group operates four equity settled, share-based incentive net selling price and value in use where value in use is based on schemes: an Executive Share Option Scheme, a Performance the present value of the estimated future cashflows arising from Share Plan previously referred to as the Long-Term Incentive the asset.
Plan, a Restricted Share Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
These are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and Payment, which requires an expense to be recognised in the impairment losses are incurred if there is objective evidence income statement over the vesting period.
The expense is based on of impairment as a result of a past event subsequent to the the fair value of each instrument at the grant date, using appropriate assets initial recognition.
The Group assesses whether objective option pricing models.
The expense is credited to retained earnings.
evidence exists for each financial asset or group of financial assets at the balance sheet date to determine whether any impairment For share based incentives where the performance measure is has arisen.
non-market based earnings per share growth the Black Scholes or Binomial Lattice model is used and the value of the expense is Post-retirement benefits adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
Where the The Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement benefits performance conditions are market-based share price performance in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
relative to the FTSE mid-250 Index, the Monte Carlo model is used and the expense is not adjusted except for forfeitures.
The fair value Pensions of SAYE grants is calculated using the Black Scholes model and the The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution expense is only adjusted to reflect forfeitures.
Share capital In respect of defined benefit plans where the amount of pension Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Interim ordinary is defined, usually based on factors such as age, years of service dividends are recognised when paid and final ordinary dividends and compensation, the net asset or obligation of each plan at are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
the balance sheet date is calculated by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The obligation is calculated by The Groups preference shares are split into debt and equity discounting the amount of future benefits that employees have components, with the associated dividend being recognised earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
on an accrual basis in the income statement as a finance cost.
An allowance is made for scheme expenses and non-service related The fair value of the debt element is established on issue of the benefits.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The net income shares, based on the discounted cash flows of the instrument statement credit charge comprises principally the service cost, to the date of maturity, and is then increased each year on an and the finance income costs, which are recognised in the amortised cost basis through the income statement in order period in which they arise.
The net income statement impact to arrive at the redemption amount payable on maturity of the is credited charged in arriving at operating profit.
On purchase and cancellation of preference shares by the pension deficit surplus of each pension plan is recorded on Company, a gain or loss is recognised in the income statement the balance sheet.
based on the difference between the book value and fair value of the financial liability element of the instrument at the date of purchase.
All actuarial gains and losses at the date of transition to IFRS have The difference between the book value and fair value of the equity been recognised in equity at that date.
Actuarial gains and losses element of the instrument is recognised as a movement in retained that arise subsequent to the transition date to IFRS in calculating the earnings.
In addition, a transfer is made to non-distributable reserves Groups obligation in respect of each plan, are recognised in the from retained earnings in order to maintain the legal nominal value Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Payments to defined contribution pension plans where the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity are charged as an Inventories expense as they fall due.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including related production overheads where appropriate, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less any selling costs.
Provision is made against slow moving and obsolete inventory where appropriate.
85 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Taxation including deferred tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Investment in own shares Shares acquired by the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
The cost of administering the trust is borne by the Company as incurred.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence, for example default or delinquency in payments, that the full amount will not be collectible.
Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short-term deposits repayable on demand and available within one day without penalty.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement, but shown separately within current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new technical knowledge and understanding is expensed in the income statement as incurred.
