Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the financial statements 1.
General information Premier Foods plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 as amended and restated, registered number 5160050, with its registered office at Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are food manufacturing, processing and distribution.
Further information about the Groups activities can be found in the Group at a glance section of this annual report.
These Group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 9 March 2010.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The Group consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future.
In 2008, the report of the auditors was unqualified but contained an emphasis of matter in respect of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The material uncertainty, as described in note 2.1 of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008, has been addressed following the resolution passed at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 23 March 2009 to approve the placing and open offer and firm placing.
See note 27 for further details.
The consolidated financial statements of Premier Foods plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and on the historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial instruments, defined benefit pension schemes and share-based payments which are incorporated using fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 3.
The following accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements IFRS 2 Amendment Vesting conditions and cancellations IFRS 7 Amendment Financial instruments: disclosures IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs IFRS 1 IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate IAS 1 IAS 32 Amendment Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on a liquidation IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement IFRIC 9 IAS 39 Amendment Embedded derivatives IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their Interaction The application of International Accounting Standard IAS 1 Revised has resulted in the Group presenting both a consolidated statement of comprehensive income and a consolidated statement of changes in equity as primary statements.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity presents all changes in equity, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income presents all changes in financial position other than through transactions with owners.
This presentation has been applied in these consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Comparative information has been represented so that it is also in conformity with the revised standard.
IFRS 2 Amendment Vesting conditions and cancellations has been implemented during the year and the prior year results have been restated.
The effect of this restatement has been to increase administrative costs and therefore increase the operating loss for the year ended 31 December 2008 by 0.9m and to increase the charge to the profit and loss reserve by the same amount.
The impact of the application of IFRS 8 is disclosed in note 4.
The application of the remaining standards and interpretations has not had a material effect on the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied Up to and during the year ended 31 December 2009, the IASB and the IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date as endorsed by the EU after the date of these financial statements: Effective for accounting periods beginning on or after: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 Revised First time adoption of IFRS 1 July 2009 IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements 1 July 2009 IFRS 1 IAS 27 Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate 1 July 2009 Amendment IAS 39 Amendment Financial instruments: recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: presentation on classification of rights issues 1 February 2010 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 15 Agreement for the construction of real estate 1 January 2010 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation 1 July 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers 31 October 2009 These standards will be adopted by the Group in future accounting periods.
The impact of the application of the amendment to IFRS 7 is disclosed in note 23.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The following standards and amendments to published standards have not been endorsed by the EU.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 Amendment Additional exemptions IFRS 1 Amendment First time adoption IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payments Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IFRS 9 Financial instruments IAS 24 Amendment Related party disclosures International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC 14 Amendment Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Premier Foods plc and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used for all acquisitions.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values as at that date.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Upon completion of the Groups fair value exercise in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3 in the 12 months following acquisition, comparatives are restated for the final fair value adjustments.
In addition, comparatives are also restated to reclassify disposed businesses into discontinued operations.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
All inter-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
2.3 Turnover Turnover comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods net of sales rebates, discounts, value added tax and other taxes directly attributable to turnover and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Turnover is recognised when the outcome of a transaction can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Turnover is recognised on the following basis: i Sale of goods Sales of goods are recognised as turnover on transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership, which generally coincides with the time when the merchandise is delivered to customers and title passes.
ii Sales rebates and discounts Sales rebates and discount reserves are established based on managements best estimate of the amounts necessary to meet claims by the Groups customers in respect of these rebates and discounts.
The provision is made at the time of sale and released, if unutilised, after assessment that the likelihood of such a claim being made has become remote.
82 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 2.
Accounting policies continued 2.4 Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
See note 4 for further details.
2.5 Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using an option-pricing model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 2, the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
The amount of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting.
2.6 Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling, the Groups presentational currency, at rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiaries with functional currencies other than in sterling are translated into sterling at the average rate of exchange ruling in the year.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising from retranslation at year end exchange rates of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recorded in reserves as a separate component of equity.
When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences previously taken to equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
All other exchange gains or losses are recorded in the income statement.
2.7 Dividends Dividend distribution to the Groups shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Groups shareholders, and for interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
2.8 Property, plantandequipment PPE Property, plant and equipment is initially recorded at cost.
Subsequent expenditure is added to the carrying value of the asset when it is probable that incremental future economic benefits will transfer to the Group.
All other subsequent expenditure is expensed in the period it is incurred.
Differences between the cost of each item of PPE and its residual value are written off over the estimated useful life of the asset using the straight-line method.
Reviews of the estimated remaining useful lives and residual values of individual productive assets are performed annually, taking account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
The useful economic lives of owned assets range from 20 to 50 years for buildings, and 3 to 35 years for vehicles, plant and equipment.
All items of PPE are reviewed for impairment when there are indications that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.
2.9 Business combinations and goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arises when the fair value of the consideration for a business exceeds the fair value of the aggregate of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Items of PPE acquired as part of a business acquisition are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition using a market value or depreciated replacement cost model.
On acquisition, the Group undertakes a review of the accounting policies of the business acquired to ensure compliance both with IFRSs and the accounting policies of the Group.
2.10 Intangible assets In addition to goodwill, the Group recognises the following intangible assets: Acquired intangibles Acquired trade marks, brands, customer relationships, licences, recipes and similar assets that are controlled through custody or legal rights and that could be sold separately from the rest of the business are capitalised, where fair value can be reliably measured.
A reputable independent specialist performs the valuations.
All of these assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives that range from 7 to 40 years.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Costs incurred in developing a product, typically its recipe or packaging, are charged to income in the year in which they are incurred unless the future economic benefits of the project can be regarded as reasonably certain and are in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38, in which case they are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Software development costs Assets acquired or internally developed, such as software, are capitalised when the future economic benefit is reasonably assured and the criteria within IAS 38 are met.
Software development costs are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis over a range of 3 to 10 years.
2.11 Impairment The useful economic lives of intangible assets are determined, based on a review of a combination of factors including the asset ownership rights acquired and the nature of the overall product life cycle.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset values has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised, in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future earnings from operating the assets in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Intangible assets with finite lives are subject to impairment testing on indication of impairment.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Any impairment losses are written off immediately.
2.12 Interest i Interest expense Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
ii Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into account the principal amounts outstanding and the interest rates applicable, taking into consideration the interest element of derivatives.
2.13 Leases Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the minimum lease payments or fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included under borrowings.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
2.14 Inventories Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where appropriate, cost includes production and other attributable overhead expenses as described in IAS 2 Inventories.
Cost is calculated on a first in, first out basis by reference to the invoiced value of supplies and attributable costs of bringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where the estimated selling price is lower than cost.
2.15 Taxation The charge or credit for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the year and takes into account deferred taxation.
Deferred taxation is accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in computation of taxable profit.
Deferred taxation is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than in a business combination, if at the time of the transaction there is no effect on either accounting or taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date on the same basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
2.16 Employee benefits Group companies provide a number of long-term employee benefit arrangements, primarily through pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds determined by periodic independent actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
84 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 2.
Accounting policies continued Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
Defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Current service costs, past-service costs, administration costs, expected return on assets and interest costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity, which then invests the contributions to buy annuities for the pension liabilities as they become due based on the value of the fund, hence the Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as they fall due.
2.17 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where material, the Group discounts its provisions.
2.18 Contingent liabilities and contingent assets A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and the existence of which will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group or the amount of obligation cannot be measured reliably.
A contingent liability is not recognised but is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
When an outflow becomes probable, it is recognised as a provision.
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and the existence of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Contingent assets are not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements when an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
When inflow is virtually certain an asset is recognised.
2.19 Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
A provision is made for impairment when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
The rights and obligations relating to those trade receivables that have been sold to third parties are fide-recognised from the balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have transferred.
Cash received from third parties in exchange for the transfer of ownership is recorded within cash and cash equivalents with the cost of financing prior to settlement by the customer recorded as interest on an accruals basis.
Amounts received from customers for receivables in respect of which title has transferred, for example under the debtors securitisation programme, represent amounts owed to the transferee and are recorded as short-term borrowings.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, with original maturities at inception of less than 90 days, comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments and bank overdrafts.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are measured initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and inclusive of debt issuance costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for borrowing costs.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Trade payables and other liabilities are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Movements in fair value of foreign exchange derivatives are recognised within other operating income and expense and those relating to interest rate swaps are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments.
Other items at fair value through profit or loss Other items at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Movements in fair value are recorded within the net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments.
See notes 9 and 23 for further details.
Net investment hedge Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within other operating income and expenditure.
2.20 Investment in own shares Investments in own shares are shown as a deduction in shareholders funds.
Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements The following are areas of particular significance to the Groups financial statements and include the application of judgement, which is fundamental to the compilation of a set of financial statements.
3.1 Pensions The present value of the Groups pension obligations depends on a number of actuarial assumptions.
The primary assumptions used include the expected long-term rate of return on invested funds, the discount rate applicable to scheme liabilities, the long-term rate of inflation and estimates of the mortality applicable to scheme members.
At each reporting date, and on a continuous basis, the Group reviews the macro-economic, Company and scheme specific factors influencing each of these assumptions, using professional advice, in order to record the Groups ongoing commitment and obligation to defined benefit schemes in accordance with IFRS.
One such assumption is the assumption of mortality rates and how these are expected to change in the future.
If the Groups assumption on the mortality of its members was amended to assume an increase of a further one year improvement in mortality, total liabilities would increase by approximately 3.6%.
Each 0.1% decrease or increase in bond yields would increase or decrease the deficit by a further 52m.
Each 0.1% increase or decrease in the assumed inflation rate would increase or decrease the deficit by a further 25m.
Each of the underlying assumptions is set out in more detail in note 26.
3.2 Goodwill and other intangible assets Impairment reviews in respect of goodwill are performed annually unless an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Impairment reviews in respect of intangible assets are performed when an event indicates that an impairment review is necessary.
Examples of such triggering events include a significant planned restructuring, a major change in market conditions or technology, expectations of future operating losses, or a significant reduction in cash flows.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs are determined based on the higher of realisable value and value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
The Group has considered the impact of the assumptions used on the calculations and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests of the CGUs carrying values.
See note 16 for further details.
Acquired trade marks, brands, customer relationships, recipes and similar assets are considered to have finite lives that range from 7 to 40 years.
The determination of the useful lives takes into account certain quantitative factors such as sales expectations and growth prospects, and also many qualitative factors such as history and heritage, and market positioning, hence the determination of useful lives are subject to estimates and judgement.
For further details see note 17.
86 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 3.
Critical accounting policies, estimates and judgements continued 3.3 Advertising and promotion costs Trade spend and promotional activity is dependent on market conditions and negotiations with customers.
Trade spend is charged to the income statement according to the substance of the agreements with customers and the terms of any contractual relationship.
Promotional support is generally charged to the income statement at the time of the relevant promotion.
These costs are accrued on best estimates.
The actual costs may not be known until subsequent years when negotiations with customers are concluded.
Such adjustments are recognised in the year when final agreement is reached.
Expenditure on advertising is charged to the income statement when incurred, except in the case of airtime costs when a particular campaign is used more than once.
In this case they are charged in line with the airtime profile.
3.4 Exceptional items Exceptional items are not explicitly addressed under IFRS.
Accordingly, the Group has defined exceptional items as those items of sufficient financial significance to be disclosed separately in order to assist in understanding the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Each of these items relates to events or circumstances that are material and non-recurring in nature, such as a major restructuring, disposal of a business or asset, or integration of an acquisition.
See note 6 for further details.
3.5 Securitisation The Group has sold the rights and obligations relating to certain of its trade receivable balances under a receivables purchasing agreement in order to achieve an overall lower cost of funding and permanently accelerate the generation of cash from working capital.
Accounting for a sale of this nature is judgemental and dependent on evidence of the substantive transfer of risk and reward from the Group to a third party.
In this instance, transference of the two primary risks, those of late payment and credit default was achieved at the balance sheet date.
The Group anticipates that the receivables purchasing agreement will remain in place over the medium term and that fide-recognition of the receivables subject to it will continue to be achieved, dependent upon ongoing review of the assessment of risk and reward transfer.
3.6 Financial instruments The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the risks arising from adverse movements in interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency.
The Group has a policy of not applying hedge accounting to these derivatives other than in the case of a Net Investment Hedge against euro denominated assets and taking any gain or loss on the movement of the fair values of derivatives to the income statement.
Segmental analysis IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as they are primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
Previously, segments were determined and presented in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly business review meetings, as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying trading performance for the period under evaluation.
Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group and the reporting of this measure at the monthly business review meetings, which are organised according to product types, has been used to identify and determine the Groups operating segments.
Trading profit is defined as operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets, the revaluation of foreign exchange and other derivative contracts under IAS 39 and pension credits or charges in relation to the difference between the expected return on pension assets, administration costs and interest costs on pension liabilities.
Following the adoption of IFRS 8, the Group revised its operating and reporting segments.
The Groups operating segments were originally defined as Grocery, Hovis, Retailer Branded Chilled, Ireland and Meat-free.
Certain of these operating segments have been aggregated and the Group reports on three continuing segments within the business: Grocery, Hovis and Other.
The Grocery and Ireland operating segments were previously aggregated into the Grocery reporting segment which sells ambient food products.
The Groups Irish operations were transferred from the former Chilled & Ireland segment into the Grocery reporting segment as this reflects the fact that the businesses have similar economic characteristics, sell similar products using similar distribution methods and share common customer types.
In response to the significant strategic changes in the Irish customer base and the decision to rationalise the Irish operations see note 6, the Group no longer reports Ireland internally as a separate operating segment to the CODM as it is now considered to be part of the Grocery operating segment.
This has not impacted the reporting segments as the Grocery and Ireland operating segments were previously aggregated.
The Hovis reporting segment comprises the Hovis operating segment, which now includes the Charnwood Foods frozen pizza base business from the former Chilled & Ireland segment.
The Hovis segment sells bread, morning goods, flour products and frozen pizza bases.
The Other reporting segment comprises the Retailer Branded Chilled and Meat-free operating segments, both from the former Chilled & Ireland segment.
These businesses have been included in the Other reporting segment as they do not meet the relevant quantitative thresholds and do not have similar economic characteristics and therefore can not be aggregated into their own separate reporting segment under IFRS 8.
The Other segment includes businesses which sell chilled ready meals and cakes and Meat-free products.
Comparative information has been restated to reflect these new segments.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The segment results for the year ended 31 December 2009 and for the year ended 31 December 2008 and the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Year ended 31 Dec 2009 Total for Grocery Hovis Other Group m m m m Turnover from continuing operations External 1,574.5 741.6 344.9 2,661.0 Inter-segment 4.0 27.0 4.4 35.4 Result Tradingprofit 256.0 41.9 25.2 323.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 78.7 Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 6.3 Pension financing charge 1.8  236.3 Exceptional items 59.8 Operatingprofit 176.5 Interest payable and other financial charges 179.8 Interest receivable and other financial income 11.3 Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 38.7  46.7 Depreciation 27.2 17.0 8.1 52.3 Amortisation 43.9 18.3 16.5 78.7 Impairment of assets held for sale 1.0 1.0 Balance sheet Segment assets 2,414.2 694.0 564.0 3,672.2 Unallocated assets 27.4 Consolidated total assets 3,699.6 1 Year ended 31 Dec 2008 Restated Total for Grocery Hovis Other Group m m m m Turnover from continuing operations External 1,502.2 770.0 331.4 2,603.6 Inter-segment 3.6 43.8 4.2 51.6 Result Tradingprofit 250.7 24.2 34.4 309.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 76.7 Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 6.9 Pension financing credit 15.6 Operating profit before exceptional items 255.1 Exceptional items 296.5 Operating loss 41.4 Interest payable and other financial charges 186.1 Interest receivable and other financial income 41.6 Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 218.9 Loss before taxation for continuing operations 404.8 Depreciation 27.1 15.9 7.7 50.7 Amortisation 41.9 18.3 16.5 76.7 Impairment of PPE 0.1 11.3 11.4 Impairment of goodwill 194.4 194.4 Balance sheet Segment assets 2,482.1 929.8 616.0 4,027.9 Unallocated assets 67.5 Consolidated total assets 4,095.4 1 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the new segmental reporting requirements under IFRS 8 and the increased share-based payment charge .
88 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 4.
Segmental analysis continued Unallocated assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, taxation balances, derivative financial assets and head office assets.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the same terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
As a consequence of extensive integration of the business, certain operating costs have been incurred centrally.
These costs are allocated to reporting segments on an appropriate basis depending on the various cost drivers and therefore the total segment result is equal to the Groups total trading profit.
Segment assets comprise property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, inventories, receivables and retirement benefit assets and exclude cash and cash equivalents, derivative assets and certain Corporate assets that are not able to be allocated to the Groups reporting segments.
Revenues of approximately 503.7m and 349.5m 2008: 479.6m and 322.8m are derived from two external customers.
These revenues are attributable across the three reporting segments above.
The Group primarily supplies the UK market, although it also supplies certain products to other European countries and a number of other countries.
The following table provides an analysis of the Groups turnover, which is allocated on the basis of geographical market destination and an analysis of the Groups non-current assets excluding retirement benefit assets by geographical location.
Continuing operations turnover Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m United Kingdom 2,498.3 2,433.5 Other Europe 134.9 144.6 Rest of world 27.8 25.5 Total for Group 2,661.0 2,603.6 Non-current assets As at As at 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m United Kingdom 3,049.9 3,103.3 Other Europe 65.0 66.4 Total for Group 3,114.9 3,169.7 5.
Net other operating expenses income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Loss gain on mark to market valuation of foreign exchange contracts and other derivatives 6.3 6.9 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 1.2 1.3 Net other operating expenses 4.8 1.0 Total net other operating expenses income 12.3 4.6 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Exceptional items During the year, the Group has seen a reduction in exceptional expenditure following the completion of its major administrative, integration and manufacturing rationalisation programmes.
Expenditure relating to the remaining elements of its restructuring and integration programmes and costs associated with the refinancing of the Group, are the primary factors behind total non-recurring integration and exceptional costs during the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Exceptional items continuing operations Integration of RHM UK operations a 25.2 60.6 Integration of Campbells UK operations b 1.5 6.3 Integration of Irish operations c 2.3 6.0 Restructure of Meat-free operations d 1.2 3.5 Hovis restructuring and other costs e 10.9 21.1 Other restructuring costs f 6.0 4.2 Gain on property disposals g 4.1 2.1 Goodwill impairment h 194.4 Total operating exceptional items 43.0 294.0 Refinancing costs i 16.8 2.5 Total exceptional items 59.8 296.5 a Integration of RHM UK operations On 16 March 2007, the Group acquired RHM plc.
During 2009, the Group has completed its factory closure programme but residual costs were incurred from the commissioning of equipment and production transferred to remaining Group manufacturing sites.
Redundancy and restructuring costs have been incurred relating to the move of existing administrative functions to a Group-wide share service centre in Manchester and the integration of certain warehousing facilities into other Group warehouses.
The current adverse market conditions have also resulted in a charge to increase onerous property lease provisions.
b Integration of Campbells UK operations On 14 August 2006, the Group acquired Campbells Grocery Products Limited.
The charge during this year primarily related to an increase in an onerous property lease provision, again driven by the current adverse market conditions.
The integration of the manufacturing operations and warehousing facilities at Kings Lynn into the existing operations of the Group was largely completed in the previous year.
c Integration of Irish operations The recession in Ireland has resulted in significant strategic changes by the Groups Irish customer base, with moves to sourcing products directly from the UK and a shift from primarily store-based trading to central purchasing and distribution.
The Group has responded quickly to these changes and on 1 December 2009, the Group announced its decision to rationalise part of its Irish operations.
In the previous year, restructuring costs were incurred after the Group completed the principal phases of integrating its Irish companies into a single operating business.
d Restructure of Meat-free operations During the year, the Group has performed a strategic review of its Meat-free manufacturing facilities in order to address production inefficiencies at its chilled facility at Methwold.
Costs have been incurred during the year on commercial supply chain restructuring initiatives to address these issues at Methwold.
The current year charge also included an increase in an onerous property lease provision, again driven by the current adverse market conditions.
In the previous year, the Group incurred commissioning costs from its Methwold site to enable the integration of chilled production for Quorn and Cauldron products on a single site.
e Hovis restructuring and other costs The Hovis business has completed a number of restructuring projects in 2009 which involved headcount reductions through organisational and structural changes, new warehouse technology and operating methods, supply chain management restructuring initiatives and various compliance related initiatives.
The current year charge also includes an impairment recognised against our site in Hull.
The previous year exceptional charges also included an impairment of assets and redundancy costs relating to the closure of our Rotherham mill, onerous lease costs for properties and impairment recognised against certain plant and machinery relating to discontinued production lines.
f Other restructuring costs This category incorporates a variety of other exceptional costs, including redundancy and restructuring costs relating to other cost reduction initiatives associated with our warehousing network, factory transformation programme and other supply chain initiatives.
It also includes training linked to the implementation of our new ERP software, professional fees and production commissioning costs.
The previous year exceptional charges relate to costs associated with general business restructuring and factory transformation, the restructuring of our warehousing network and supply chain, training and a number of compliance related initiatives.
90 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 6.
Exceptional items continued g Gain on property disposals The net disposal gain of 4.1m in the year primarily relates to the disposal of our site at Kings Lynn.
The gain in the previous year related to the disposal of sites and plant and equipment in Bristol, Droylsden, Middlewich, Wythenshawe and Stoke in the UK and Thurles in the Republic of Ireland.
h Goodwill impairment An impairment charge of 194.4m was recognised in the year ended 31 December 2008 against the goodwill allocated to the Hovis CGU due to the significant increase in the discount rate used to calculate the recoverable amount of the Hovis CGU.
i Refinancing costs Advisory fees have been incurred during the year relating to the placing and open offer and firm placing see note 27, amended lending agreements see notes 9 and 22, renegotiation of interest rate swaps and new pensions framework.
Operating profit loss for continuing operations 7a.
Analysis of costs by nature Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 1 Restated m m Cost of inventories sold 1,512.7 1,463.3 Employee benefits expense note 8 524.7 504.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets 52.1 50.5 under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets: software and licences 9.7 7.7 brands and trade marks 34.3 34.3 customer relationships 34.7 34.7 Impairment of inventory 4.2 5.6 Impairment of assets held for sale 1.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 11.4 Impairment of goodwill 194.4 Operating lease rental payments: plant and machinery 17.1 21.2 land and buildings 13.5 8.8 Repairs and maintenance expenditure 57.2 54.5 Research and development costs 3.7 5.1 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment intangible assets 2.9 0.8 Net foreign exchange gain 9.0 5.1 Auditor remuneration 3.8 2.2 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
Operating lease obligations are further disclosed in note 29.
Auditor remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.7 Other services relating to taxation 0.2 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 2.3 3.1 Total auditor remuneration 3.5 4.7 Included within total fees paid to the auditors of 3.5m 2008: 4.7m were 2.3m 2008: 3.1m of costs which were directly attributable to the financing negotiations and equity raising detailed in notes 9, 22 and 27.
In 2008, 2.5m out of the 3.1m relating to corporate finance transactions was held on the balance sheet.
In 2009, 2.2m of this amount was taken to share premium relating to the issue of shares and the balance was written off giving a total operating profit charge of auditors remuneration in 2009 of 3.8m 2008: 2.2m.
In 2009, fees of 10,750 2008: 48,855 were paid to the Companys auditors in respect of the audit and services in relation to one of the Groups pension schemes.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Employees Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 1 Restated m m Staff costs for the Group during the year for continuing operations Wages and salaries 454.7 429.2 Social security costs 42.2 38.4 Termination benefits 12.5 15.6 Share options granted to directors and employees 2.6 3.1 Pension costs defined contribution plans note 26 1.1 1.1 Pension current service costs defined benefit plans note 26 11.6 17.1 Total staff costs 524.7 504.5 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
Average monthly number of people employed including executive directors for continuing operations: Number Number Management 564 583 Administration 1,874 1,857 Production, distribution and other 13,661 13,473 Total average headcount 16,099 15,913 Directors remuneration including retirement benefits accruing to the directors under defined benefit schemes is disclosed in the audited sections of the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 73, which form part of these financial statements.
Interest payable and receivable On 5 March 2009, the Group announced revised financing arrangements including a share issuance, changes to lending agreements to provide greater covenant and liquidity headroom and the extension of the maturity of the facility.
These revised financing arrangements were approved by ordinary shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 23 March 2009.
The amendments to the Groups Term and Revolving Credit Facilities included a rephasing of the facilities to provide additional liquidity and covenant headroom and an extension of the maturity date to December 2013.
The total facility as at 31 December 2009 was 1,780m and will be amortised by 50m in both June and December of each year until December 2013.
In respect of these amendments to the existing facilities and arrangement of the new facilities, the Group incurred costs of 26.1m, 3.0m of which were immediately charged to the income statement.
On 5 March 2009, the Group amended the break clauses in one of its long dated swaps to make it consistent with other long dated swaps.
At the same time the Group also restructured two other swaps into one new swap which resulted in an amendment to the payment terms and an amendment to the break clauses, being an optional break at August 2012 and a mandatory break at June 2013.
The terms were also amended such that it will now settle at either break point for a mark to market payment to the counterparty bank.
As a result of these amendments, a new contract was recognised which comprises both an underlying host as well as embedded derivatives.
This hybrid instrument was classified within a new class of financial liabilities being Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
On 28 February 2008, the Group entered into a supplemental agreement with its banks amending certain terms of its Senior Term Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement of 16 March 2007.
The Group also converted the Acquisition line of the Secured Senior Working Capital Credit Facility into a 100m Working Capital line and agreed an additional 125m of short-term facilities with three of its banks.
These short-term facilities were fully repaid on 23 December 2008 and the facilities terminated.
In respect of these amendments to the existing facilities and arrangement of the new facilities, the Group incurred costs of 15.3m, 12.1m of which were immediately charged to the income statement in the year to 31 December 2008.
On 18 November 2008, the Group announced an agreement with its lending banks to defer its 31 December 2008 covenant test to 31 March 2009, pending a review of its capital structure.
Fees of 4.9m incurred in relation to this were expensed in the year to 31 December 2008.
92 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 9.
Interest payable and receivable continued Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 16.7 35.0 Interest payable on term facility 61.7 96.0 Interest payable on revolving facility 12.6 29.6 Interest payable on interest rate derivatives 60.7 Interest payable on interest rate financial liabilities designated as other liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1.7 Unwind of discount on provisions 1.0 0.9 Amortisation of debt issuance costs and deferred fees 12.6 7.6 167.0 169.1 Exceptional write-off of financing costs 3.0 17.0 Accelerated amortisation of debt issuance costs 9.8 Total interest payable and other financial charges 179.8 186.1 Interest receivable on bank deposits 10.6 16.8 Interest receivable on interest rate derivatives 0.7 24.8 Total interest receivable and other financial income 11.3 41.6 Movement on fair valuation of interest rate derivatives 75.5 218.9 Movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial liabilities designated as other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 36.8 Net movement on fair valuation of interest rate financial instruments 38.7 218.9 Net interest payable 129.8 363.4 The fair value of interest rate swaps and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss has fallen from a 237.4m liability at 31 December 2008 to a 198.7m liability at 31 December 2009 resulting in a net credit of 38.7m for the year due to amortisation refer to note 23 offset by a change in the yield curve.
The liability at 31 December 2009 represents the net present value of the interest cash flows calculated using the contracted fixed rates compared to the net present value of interest cash flows that would arise if the interest was calculated on a floating basis.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities Analysis of the charge credit for the year: Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total m m m 2009 Current tax Prior years 4.0 1.4 2.6 Overseas current tax Current year 0.7 0.7 1.4 Prior years 0.2 0.9 0.7 Deferred tax note 24 Current year 15.2 15.8 0.6 Prior years 4.9 4.9 Incometaxcharge credit fortheyear 6.8 12.8 6.0 2008 Current tax Current year 0.9 0.9 Prior years 7.6 1.4 6.2 Overseas current tax current year 2.8 2.8 Deferred tax note 24 Current year 24.3 0.2 24.1 Prior years 1.5 0.6 0.9 Income tax credit charge for the year 30.6 3.1 27.5 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued Tax relating to items recorded in equity for continuing operations was: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax charge on share options 0.5 Deferred tax credit charge on pension movements 117.7 19.2 Current tax credit on pension movements 14.4 0.4 132.1 19.3 The tax credit from continuing operations for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% for the year ended 31 December 2009, and 28.5% for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The reasons for this are explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 1 Restated m m Profit loss before taxation for continuing operations 46.7 404.8 Tax charge credit at the domestic income tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% 13.1 115.4 Tax effect of: Non-deductible exceptional items 4.5 63.6 Other disallowable items 0.3 1.5 Adjustment to reflect the abolition of tax relief for industrial buildings 25.4 Adjustment for share-based pay 0.9 2.2 Adjustment due to current year deferred tax being provided at 28% 1.2 Previously unrecognised losses utilised 2.9 Adjustments to prior years 9.1 9.1 Income tax charge credit 6.8 30.6 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of 25.2m 2008: 444.7m loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
Year ended 31 Dec 2009 Year ended 31 Dec 2008 1 Restated Dilutive effect Dilutive effect of share of share Basic options Diluted Basic options Diluted Continuing operations Profit loss after tax m 39.9 39.9 374.2 374.2 Weighted average number of shares m 2,079.0 2,079.0 905.3 905.3 Earnings loss per share pence 1.9 1.9 41.3 41.3 Discontinued operations Loss after tax m 14.7 14.7 70.5 70.5 Weighted average number of shares m 2,079.0 2,079.0 905.3 905.3 Loss per share pence 0.7 0.7 7.8 7.8 Total Profit loss after tax m 25.2 25.2 444.7 444.7 Weighted average number of shares m 2,079.0 2,079.0 905.3 905.3 Earnings loss per share pence 1.2 1.2 49.1 49.1 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
2 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the impact of the placing and open offer and firm placing in the year.
94 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 11.
Earnings Per Share continued Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share is defined as trading profit less net regular interest payable, less a notional tax charge at 28.0% 2008: 28.5% divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the Company.
Net regular interest payable is defined as net interest after excluding non-cash items, namely exceptional write-off of financing costs, accelerated amortisation of debt issuance costs, fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments and the unwind of the discount on provisions.
Trading profit and Adjusted EPS have been reported as the directors believe these provide an alternative measure with which the shareholders can assess the Groups underlying trading performance.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Continuing Discontinued Total m m m Operatingprofit loss 176.5 27.4 149.1 Exceptional items 59.8 27.9 87.7  236.3 0.5 236.8 Pension financing charge 1.8 1.8 Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 6.3 6.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 78.7 78.7 Trading profit 323.1 0.5 323.6 Less net regular interest payable 154.7 154.7  168.4 0.5 168.9 Notional tax at 28% 47.1 0.1 47.2  121.3 0.4 121.7 Average shares in issue m 2,079.0 2,079.0 2,079.0 AdjustedEPS pence 5.8 5.8 Net regular interest payable Net interest payable 129.8 0.1 129.9 Exclude exceptional write-off of financing costs 3.0 3.0 Exclude accelerated amortisation of debt issuance costs 9.8 9.8 Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments 38.7 38.7 Exclude unwind of discount on provisions 1.0 0.1 1.1 Net regular interest payable 154.7 154.7 1 Year ended 31 December 2008 Restated Continuing Discontinued Total m m m Operating loss 41.4 68.1 109.5 Exceptional items 296.5 71.9 368.4 Operating profit before exceptional items 255.1 3.8 258.9 Pension financing credit 15.6 15.6 Fair value movements on foreign exchange and other derivative contracts 6.9 6.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 76.7 5.3 82.0 Trading profit 309.3 9.1 318.4 Less net regular interest payable receivable 126.6 0.1 126.5 Adjusted profit before tax 182.7 9.2 191.9 Notional tax at 28.5% 52.1 2.6 54.7 Adjusted profit after tax 130.6 6.6 137.2 Average shares in issue m 905.3 905.3 905.3 Adjusted EPS pence 14.4 0.7 15.1 Net regular interest payable receivable Net interest payable receivable 363.4 0.7 362.7 Exclude exceptional write-off of financing costs 17.0 17.0 Exclude fair value adjustments on interest rate financial instruments 218.9 218.9 Exclude unwind of discount on provisions and receivables 0.9 0.6 0.3 Net regular interest payable receivable 126.6 0.1 126.5 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Earnings Per Share continued Dilutive effect of share options The dilutive effect of share options is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The only dilutive potential ordinary shares of the Company are share options.
A calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to the outstanding share options.
For the years ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008, there is no dilutive effect as the outstanding share options that could have been acquired at fair value is less than the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to these options.
The issue of 1,553,416,776 ordinary shares during the year has been included in determining the weighted average for the current year see note 27.
No adjustment is made to the profit or loss in calculating undiluted and diluted earnings loss per share.
2009 2008 1 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic earnings loss per share 2,079,022,507 905,269,075 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings loss per share 2,079,022,507 905,269,075 1 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the impact of the placing and open offer and firm placing in the year.
Discontinued operations During the year, the Group disposed of its speciality bakery businesses, Martine Spcialits S. A. S. Martine, Le Pain Croustillant LPC and Sofrapain S. A. S. Sofrapain.
The sale of Martine and LPC completed on 2 March 2009 and the sale of Sofrapain completed on 30 April 2009.
The results of the speciality bakery businesses are included in discontinued operations in the Groups consolidated income statement up to the date effective control was transferred.
Effective control of Sofrapain was transferred on 6 February 2009 and for LPC and Martine on 28 February 2009.
The speciality bakery businesses were sold for 47.5m before disposal costs.
The results of discontinued operations for the year are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Turnover 21.4 173.0 Operating expenses 24.3 241.1 Operating loss before taxation 2.9 68.1 Interest payable 0.1 0.3 Interest receivable 1.0 Loss before taxation 3.0 67.4 Taxation charge 0.7 3.1 Loss after taxation on discontinued operations for the year 3.7 70.5 Loss on disposal before taxation 24.5 Tax credit on loss on disposal 13.5 Loss on disposal after taxation 11.0 Total loss arising from discontinued operations 14.7 70.5 The net loss in the previous year from discontinued operations included the results of the speciality bakery businesses and property proceeds, which the Group was entitled to under the terms of the sale of our Netherlands-based subsidiary, Jonker Fris BV, on 8 December 2005.
During the year, discontinued operations contributed to a net outflow of 6.6m 2008: 16.2m inflow to the Groups net operating cash flows, and a 0.5m outflow to investing activities 2008: 4.0m outflow and an outflow of nil 2008: 0.3m outflow in respect of financing activities.
96 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 13.
Disposal of subsidaries businesses During the year, the Group disposed of its speciality bakery businesses.
The impact on the results of the Group is disclosed in note 12.
On the dates of disposal, the net assets of the businesses, the consideration and the loss on disposal were as follows: m Property, plant and equipment 36.5 Intangible assets and goodwill 42.8 Inventories 9.2 Trade and other receivables 24.0 Trade and other payables 41.5 Provisions and lease obligations 4.9 Pension obligation 0.9 Translation reserves relating to speciality bakery businesses 6.1 Net investment hedge relating to speciality bakery businesses 7.2 Net assets disposed 66.3 Less net consideration 41.8 Loss on disposal before tax 24.5 Taxation credit on loss on disposal 13.5  11.0 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Initial consideration 47.5 Disposal costs 2.3  45.2 In the previous year, 3.4m of disposal costs were paid for and classified within cash flow from operating activities.
Assets and liabilities held for sale 2009 2008 m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1.8 45.6 Goodwill 15.3 Other intangible assets 27.5 Other non-current assets 0.4 Current assets: Inventories 9.0 Trade and other receivables 26.6 Total assets held for sale 1.8 124.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 41.0 Financial liabilities short-term borrowings 0.4 Current income tax liabilities 1.0 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities long-term borrowings 1.3 Provisions 3.0 Other liabilities 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities 9.2 Total liabilities held for sale 56.5 Net assets and liabilities held for sale 1.8 67.9 As at 31 December 2009, the non-operational property at Hull was classified as an asset held for sale.
This disposal has taken longer than anticipated due to adverse market conditions: however, the contract for sale has been completed in January 2010.
As at 31 December 2008, properties at Kings Lynn and Hull were classified as assets held for sale and assets and liabilities relating to the speciality bakery businesses were classified as held for sale following the receipt of firm offers for these businesses.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Property, plant and equipment Long Short Vehicles, Freehold land leasehold land leasehold land plant and and buildings and buildings and buildings equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 145.2 10.7 31.5 517.2 704.6 Additions 4.8 0.4 128.8 134.0 Disposals 1.6 0.4 46.7 48.7 Reclassifications 1.3 1.3 Transferred to held for sale 10.4 3.4 1.6 32.8 48.2 Foreign exchange 2.6 1.5 4.8 8.9 At31December2008 140.6 8.8 31.2 570.0 750.6 Additions 7.1 44.4 51.5 Disposals 4.6 4.6 Reclassifications 0.8 0.1 0.9 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 146.9 8.8 31.1 610.6 797.4 Aggregate depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 1.4 0.6 1.2 94.3 97.5 Depreciation charge for the year 6.8 0.8 1.0 47.9 56.5 Disposal 0.9 0.3 43.7 44.9 Impairment 2.3 1.6 7.5 11.4 Reclassification 1.1 1.1 Transferred to held for sale 1.7 1.5 0.3 6.8 10.3 Foreign exchange 0.4 0.7 0.4 1.5 At31December2008 8.3 0.6 4.3 98.5 111.7 Depreciation charge for the year 5.7 0.5 0.8 45.3 52.3 Disposal 1.7 1.7 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 14.0 1.1 5.1 142.0 162.2 Net book value 31 December 2008 132.3 8.2 26.9 471.5 638.9 Net book value 31 December 2009 132.9 7.7 26.0 468.6 635.2 The net book value of the Groups vehicles, plant and equipment includes an amount of 0.7m 2008: 0.9m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 14.8m 2008: 22.8m.
The impairment in 2008 of 11.4m mostly related to the closure of our mill in Rotherham and an impairment against certain plant and machinery relating to discontinued production lines.
The impairment charge reflected the difference between the carrying value of assets and their expected recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amounts were determined on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
As at 31 December 2009, the rate used to discount the forecasted cash flows was 11.8% 2008: 11.1%.
No property, plant and equipment were impaired in 2009.
The Groups borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including property, plant and equipment.
98 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 16.
Goodwill 2009 2008 m m Cost At 1 January 1,371.3 1,649.5 Impairment continuing 194.4 Impairment discontinuing 68.5 Transferred to held for sale 15.3 At 31 December 1,371.3 1,371.3 As a result of the integration programme undertaken by the Group, the previously disclosed CGUs have been changed to more closely align them with the new segmental structure, which was effective from 1 January 2009.
This has resulted in four CGUs in which Goodwill acquired in various business combinations has been allocated.
Goodwill previously allocated to the Cake and Ireland CGUs has been allocated to the Grocery CGU.
During the year, the Chilled CGU has been renamed as Brookes Avana.
The new CGUs are as follows: 2009 2008 1 Restated m m Grocery 948.0 948.0 Brookes Avana 170.7 170.7 Hovis 163.0 163.0 Meat-free 89.6 89.6 Net carrying value of goodwill 1,371.3 1,371.3 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated into their new CGUs.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations or fair value less costs to sell, depending on the way in which the value of the CGU is expected to be recovered.
Key assumptions The key assumptions for calculating value in use are those relating to the cash flows, long-term growth rate and discount rate.
Cash flow assumptions The cash flows used in the value-in-use calculation are pre-tax cash flows based on the latest approved management forecasts in respect of the following five years.
Assumptions regarding these future cash flows are based upon actual results in prior periods and adjusted for expected developments in the following years with reference to market conditions and reasonable management expectations for the businesses.
All income and costs are taken into account and an estimate of capital expenditure required to maintain these cash flows is also made.
Long-term growth rate assumptions The five year management forecasts are extrapolated in perpetuity using growth assumptions relevant for the business sector.
The growth rate applied is 2.25% 2008: 2.25% and is not considered to be higher than the average long-term industry growth rate.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to the cash flows is calculated using a pre-tax rate based on the weighted average cost of capital WACC which would be anticipated for a market participant investing in the Group.
The directors believe it is appropriate to use a single common discount rate for all impairment testing as each CGU shares similar risk profiles.
The Group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment testing.
At 31 December 2009, the pre-tax rate used to discount the forecasted cash flows has been determined to be 11.8% 2008: 11.1%.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Goodwill continued Impairment No impairment charge has been recognised in the year 2008: 262.9m.
The current economic climate has increased the discount rate adopted by the Group due to the higher level of return expected by equity holders due to the continued perceived risk and volatility in equity markets.
The Group has considered this impact on the assumptions used and has conducted sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the Brookes Avana CGUs carrying value.
This has not resulted in any impairment of the carrying value at 31 December 2009 as the CGUs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying value by 6.9m.
However, the CGUs recoverable amount would be comparable to its carrying value if the discount rate were to increase by 0.5%.
Any favourable change in assumptions in future periods will result in additional headroom.
With regards to the remaining CGUs, the directors believe no reasonable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment testing would cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount.
In 2008, an impairment assessment of the carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the speciality bakery businesses, Martine Spcialits S. A. S. Le Pain Croustillant and Sofrapain S. A. S. was undertaken by assessing their fair value less costs to sell in light of the decision to dispose of these businesses.
This goodwill was previously included within the Hovis CGU and was tested for impairment prior to its classification as held for sale.
The impairment test in respect of the remaining goodwill within the Hovis CGU and the other CGUs has been undertaken by assessing the CGUs value-in-use.
In 2008, included within the impairment charge is 68.5m recognised against the goodwill allocated to the speciality bakery businesses and was recorded within discontinued operations.
The residual goodwill attributable to these businesses of 15.3m was transferred to assets held for sale refer to note 14.
In 2008, a further charge of 194.4m was recognised against the goodwill allocated to the Hovis CGU which is included within the Hovis segment thereby reducing the carrying value of this CGU to its recoverable amount.
This impairment arose as a result of the significant increase in discount rate in 2008.
Any favourable change in assumptions in future periods will result in additional headroom: however, any adverse change would result in additional impairment.
Other intangible assets Software Brands Customer licences trade marks relationships Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 57.3 989.7 280.0 1,327.0 Additions 31.2 31.2 Transferred to held for sale 37.0 37.0 At31December2008 88.5 989.7 243.0 1,321.2 Additions 27.6 27.6 Disposals 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2009 115.0 989.7 243.0 1,347.7 Amortisation At 1 January 2008 8.1 49.4 31.7 89.2 Charge for the year 7.7 34.3 40.0 82.0 Transferred to held for sale 9.5 9.5 At 31 December 2008 15.8 83.7 62.2 161.7 Disposals 1.1 1.1 Charge for the year 9.7 34.3 34.7 78.7 At31December2009 24.4 118.0 96.9 239.3 Net book value 31 December 2008 72.7 906.0 180.8 1,159.5 Net book value 31 December 2009 90.6 871.7 146.1 1,108.4 Brands and trade marks are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 20 to 40 years.
Software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 10 years.
Customer relationships are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 7 years.
Included in the software additions for the year above are 7.3m of internal costs 2008: 6.5m.
As at 31 December 2009, the Groups borrowings are secured on the assets of the Group including other intangible fixed assets.
100 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 17.
Other intangible assets continued The material brands held on the balance sheet are as follows: Carrying value at Estimated 31 Dec 2009 useful life remaining Brand Trade mark m years Bisto 163.3 27 Hovis 148.8 37 Oxo 100.5 37 Batchelors 86.1 27 Sharwoods 77.2 27 Quorn 67.8 26 Mr Kipling 63.6 27 18.
Investments Principal subsidiaries Effective interest Country of incorporation in ordinary or registration and share capital at 31 Dec Name of Subsidiary principal operations Principal activity 2009 2008 Operating subsidiaries Chivers Hartley Limited United Kingdom Spreads and pickles manufacturing 100% 100% H. L. Foods Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution of soups, 100% 100% meat, food canning and processing Premier Ambient Products United Kingdom Spreads, pickles, vinegar, jelly and 100% 100% UK Limited desserts manufacturing Premier International United Kingdom Hot and cold beverages 100% 100% Foods UK Limited manufacturing Marlow Foods Limited United Kingdom Meat-free manufacturing 100% 100% Premier Grocery Products Ireland Republic of Ireland Distribution of soups, meat and other 100% 100% Limited food products Premier Foods Group Limited United Kingdom Manufacture and distribution of cake, 100% 100% bread, own label and other food products Other subsidiaries Premier Brands Foods Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% Premier Financing Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% Premier Foods Holdings Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% Premier Foods Investments Limited United Kingdom Financing company 100% 100% Premier Foods Investments United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% No.
1 Limited Premier Foods Investments United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% No.
2 Limited Premier Foods Investments United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% No.
3 Limited Premier Foods Group Services Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% RHM Limited United Kingdom Intermediate holding company 100% 100% Premier Foods Investments No.
3 Limited and RHM Limited are direct wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Premier Foods plc.
All other subsidiary undertakings are held indirectly by Premier Foods plc.
Each of the principal subsidiary undertakings has the same year-end as Premier Foods plc.
The companies listed above are those that materially affect the results and the assets of the Group.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is available from the Company Secretary.
On 1 January 2010, the Group undertook an internal reorganisation which resulted in the transfer of the trade and assets of Chivers Hartley Limited, H. L. Foods Limited, Premier Ambient Products UK Limited and Premier International Foods UK Limited to a fellow subsidiary, Premier Foods Group Limited.
Inventories 2009 2008 m m Raw materials 79.3 88.4 Work in progress 4.5 5.8 Finished goods and goods for resale 130.2 144.6 Inventories 214.0 238.8 The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including inventory.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 308.2 287.4 Trade receivables impaired 7.7 6.0 Net trade receivables 300.5 281.4 Prepayments 22.3 19.6 Interest receivable 1.1 0.6 Other tax and social security receivable 13.2 20.0 Other receivable 9.9 15.4 Trade and other receivables 347.0 337.0 The borrowings of the Group are secured against all the assets of the Group including trade and other receivables.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 386.2 431.6 Other tax and social security payable 7.8 11.4 Other payables 48.9 56.6 Accruals 42.1 40.2 Trade and other payables 485.0 539.8 22.
Bank and other borrowings 2009 2008 m m Due within one year: Secured Senior Credit Facility Term note a 100.0 150.6 Debt issuance costs 1.0 0.8 99.0 149.8 Bank overdrafts 34.5 6.9 Total bank borrowings due within one year 133.5 156.7 Finance lease obligations note 23 0.5 0.6 Other unsecured loans note c 18.5 17.5 Total borrowings due within one year 152.5 174.8 Due after more than one year: Secured Senior Credit Facility Working Capital note b 10.0 10.0 Secured Senior Credit Facility Revolving note a 67.9 450.0 Debt issuance costs 5.0 3.4 62.9 446.6 Secured Senior Credit Facility Term note a 1,179.9 1,181.0 Debt issuance costs 11.7 6.2 1,168.2 1,174.8 Finance lease obligations note 23 0.9 1.1 Other unsecured loans 0.1 Total other 0.9 1.2 Total borrowings due after one year 1,232.0 1,632.6 Total bank and other borrowings 1,384.5 1,807.4 The borrowings are secured by a floating charge over all assets of the Group.
Cash and bank deposits and short-term borrowings have been offset to the extent possible in accordance with the Groups banking agreements and the legal rights to such offset in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
102 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 22.
Bank and other borrowings continued a Senior Term Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement 2009 On 5 March 2009, the Group entered into a supplemental agreement with its banks amending certain terms of its Senior Term Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility Arrangement of 16 March 2007.
This original facility was arranged by Barclays Capital, Bayerische Landesbank, BNP Paribas, Rabobank International, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers and underwriters and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent and security trustee.
The Senior Term Credit Facility now comprises 1,430m of Term facilities of which 100m was immediately repaid in April 2009 after the successful equity raising, and a multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility of up to 500m or its equivalent in other currencies.
The final maturity date of the above arrangements is 31 December 2013. b Secured Senior Working Capital Credit Facility On 28 February 2008, the Group converted its 100m Acquisition line into a Working Capital line and agreed an additional 125m of short-term facilities with three of its leading banks.
The Working Capital line was fully repaid in March 2009 as a result of the refinancing and the facility terminated.
The 125m of short-term facility was fully repaid on 23 December 2008 and the facility terminated.
c Other unsecured loans Other unsecured loans falling due within one year includes amounts owed in respect of cash receipts from debtors previously sold under the debtors securitisation programme.
Financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk arising from adverse movements in interest rates, commodity prices, and foreign currency, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage certain of these risks.
The management of these risks, along with the day-to-day management of treasury activities, is performed by the Group Treasury function.
The policy framework governing the management of these risks is defined by the Finance Committee, a subcommittee of the Board.
The framework for management of these risks is incorporated into a policies and procedures manual.
The Group also enters into contracts with suppliers for its principal raw material requirements, some of which are considered commodities, and also diesel and energy.
These commodity and energy contracts are part of the Groups normal purchasing activities.
Some of the risk relating to diesel is mitigated with the use of derivative financial instruments.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The Groups main operating entities functional currencies and the Groups presentational currency is sterling although some transactions are executed in non-sterling currencies, including euros, US dollars, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs and Swedish kronor.
The transactional amounts realised or settled are therefore subject to the effect of movements in these currencies against the Pound.
Management of these exposures is centralised and managed by the Groups Treasury Function.
It is the Groups policy to manage the exposures arising using forward foreign currency exchange contracts and currency options.
Hedge accounting is not sought for these transactions.
The Group generates some of its profits in non-sterling currencies and has assets in non-sterling jurisdictions, principally the euro.
A portion of the translation exposure resulting from these euro denominated profits and overseas net assets is hedged.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group has euro denominated borrowings of 22.3m 2008: 74.2m designated as a hedge of euro denominated assets.
The principal foreign currency affecting the translation of subsidiary undertakings within the Group financial statements is the euro.
The rates applicable are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec Principal rate of exchange 2009 2008 Year end 1.1185 1.0310 Average 1.1142 1.2541 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments continued The majority of the Groups assets and liabilities are denominated in the functional currency of the relevant division or subsidiary.
The table below shows the Groups currency exposures as at 31 December 2009 and 2008 that gave rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement as a result of monetary assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiaries involved.
Functional currency of subsidiaries Sterling Euro Total m m m At 31 December 2009 Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities Sterling 0.4 0.4 Euro 7.9 7.9 US dollar 0.7 0.7 Other currencies 0.2 0.2 Total 7.0 0.4 6.6 At 31 December 2008 Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities Sterling 2.6 2.6 Euro 7.0 7.0 US dollar 5.3 5.3 Other currencies 0.5 0.5 Total 12.8 2.6 15.4 In addition, the Group also has forward foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding at the year end in order to manage the exposures above but also to hedge future transactions in foreign currencies.
The sterling nominal amounts outstanding are as follows: 2009 2008 Payable Payable receivable receivable m m Euro 46.0 32.2 US dollar 46.9 47.6 Swiss franc 1.8 1.7 Swedish krona 2.7 2.3 Total 88.4 75.8 If the euro were to weaken against sterling by 10 cents, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would decrease by 1.7m 2008: 3.5m.
If the euro were to strengthen against sterling by 10 cents, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would increase by 2.7m 2008: 3.2m.
This is primarily driven by the effect on the mark to market valuation of the foreign exchange derivatives of the Group as the hedged rates are above the spot rate.
If the euro were to weaken against sterling by 10 cents, the foreign exchange movement taken to equity in relation to the Net Investment Hedge would be an additional 1.6m gain 2008: 6.4m gain.
If the euro were to strengthen against sterling by 10 cents, the foreign exchange movement taken to equity in relation to the Net Investment Hedge would be an additional 2.0m loss 2008: 7.7m loss.
If the US dollar were to weaken against sterling by 20 cents, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would decrease by 3.4m 2008: 6.0m.
If the US dollar were to strengthen against sterling by 20 cents, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would increase by 4.9m 2008: 7.9m.
ii Commodity price risk The Group purchases a variety of commodities for use in production and distribution which can experience significant price volatility, which include, inter alia, wheat, tinplate, diesel and energy.
The price risk on these commodities is managed by the Group through the Treasury Risk Management Committee.
It is the Groups policy to minimise its exposure to this volatility by adopting an appropriate forward purchase strategy or by the use of derivative instruments where they are available.
104 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 23.
Financial instruments continued iii Interest rate risk The Groups borrowing facilities comprise term debt and a revolving facility, principally in sterling.
Interest is charged at floating rates plus a margin on the amounts drawn down, and at half the margin for the non-utilised portion of the facility, hence the borrowings are sensitive to changes in interest rates.
The Group then seeks to mitigate the effect of adverse movements in interest rates by entering into derivative financial instruments that reduce the level of exposure to floating rates.
The target of fixed capped debt is defined in the Group Treasury policy and procedures, however, the amount hedged can be amended subject to agreement by the Finance Committee.
The gross cash flows on the interest rate derivatives are sensitive to changes in interest rates as they are driven by three month LIBOR which is reset on a quarterly basis.
As at 31 December 2009 the reset rate was 0.605%.
The weighted average interest rate for these derivative financial instruments is as follows: Weighed average interest rate % Currency Sterling At 31 December 2009 6.0 At 31 December 2008 7.1 The following table reflects the likely contractual maturity date of the interest rate derivative contracts taking into account zero cost call features, where market rates at the balance sheet date indicate they will be triggered by the banks, as well as mutual break clauses under which either party can be required to settle the fair value of the contract for cash.
Without taking into account these features, a number of these contracts would continue for up to 28 years.
Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2009 Derivative financial liabilities: Fixed rate 125.0 50.0 175.0 Cap and floor structure 350.0 350.0 Long dated callable swaps 225.0 150.0 25.0 400.0 Other callable swaps 275.0 275.0 Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Other callable swaps 150.0 150.0 125.0 725.0 475.0 25.0 1,350.0 At 31 December 2008 Derivative financial liabilities: Fixed rate 340.0 125.0 465.0 Cap and floor structure 350.0 350.0 Long dated callable swaps 100.0 50.0 275.0 150.0 25.0 600.0 Other callable swaps 235.0 235.0 340.0 225.0 50.0 625.0 385.0 25.0 1,650.0 Fixed rate derivatives with a nominal value of 175m 2008: 465m are conventional interest rate swaps whose maturities are between 2010 and 2013.
One swap of 50m 2008: 50m has a callable option whereby the counterparty bank can cancel the swap at nil cost at certain specified dates from June 2011 onwards.
The cap and floor structures have a nominal value of 350m 2008: 350m with caps set at 6.15% to 6.25% and floor rates between 4.31% and 4.55%.
In addition, when LIBOR rates are beneath the floor strike price, a digital option is triggered which results in the Group paying interest at 5.75% on all of these instruments for three months.
Long dated swaps of 400m 2008: 600m include 400m of swaps which have callable options whereby the counterparty bank can cancel the swap at nil cost at certain specified dates.
These swaps have an average fixed rate of 4.87% ranging between 4.52% and 5.21%.
Of the contracts in place, 100m are currently callable with a further 150m becoming callable from 30 September 2010, and the remainder being callable from September 2011 onwards all at nil cost.
On 5 March 2009, the Group restructured two long dated swaps one swap with a nominal value of 50m and another with a nominal value of 100m into one new swap of 150m so as to amend the break clauses to an optional break at August 2012 and a mandatory break at June 2013, and also amend its terms such that it will now settle at either break point for a mark to market payment to the counterparty bank.
The swap was structured to amortise the fair value at 5 March 2009 over the life of the new contract.
In addition, a derivative element provides for an adjustment to the payments should interest rates rise above 7%.
As a result, a new contract was recognised which comprises both an underlying host as well as embedded derivatives.
This hybrid instrument was classified within a new class of liabilities being Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments continued The earliest contractual maturity date of this is August 2012 within two and three years.
The current fair value as at 31 December 2009 is 36.8m, and based on the current yield curve the mark to market payment in August 2012 would be 32.6m.
The other callable swaps contain features whereby a fall in LIBOR below 3.5% and 3.25% causes the rate of interest paid by the Group to increase.
Above these rates the Group pays a fixed rate of interest of an average 4.51% for each quarter when the rate is below the trigger.
These contracts are also callable at nil cost.
In addition, the Group has entered into a debt securitisation programme which has the effect of reducing the interest cost on the amount advanced when compared to the borrowing costs of the Groups term facility.
Cash and deposits earn interest at floating rates based on banks short-term treasury deposit rates.
Short-term trade and other receivables are interest-free.
The Groups provisions of 46.9m as at 31 December 2009 2008: 51.7m include 16.6m relating to onerous leases which are considered to be floating rate financial liabilities.
These cash flows are discounted where the effect is material.
At 31 December 2009, for every 50 basis points reduction in rates below the last floating reset rate of 0.605% based on three month LIBOR, with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would increase by 2.8m.
At 31 December 2009, if interest rates were 200 basis points higher than the last floating reset rate of 0.605% based on three month LIBOR, with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would decrease by 11.1m.
At 31 December 2008, for every 50 basis points reduction in rates below the last floating reset rate of 2.77% based on three month LIBOR, with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would increase by 3.6m.
At 31 December 2008, if interest rates were 200 basis points higher than the last floating reset rate of 2.77% based on three month LIBOR, with all other variables held constant, annualised net interest expense would decrease by 5.1m.
This analysis assumes that currently applicable callable features in two contracts with nominals of 110m are not exercised.
The Groups other financial assets and liabilities are not exposed to material interest rate risk.
b Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash deposits, trade and other receivables and investments.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are deposited with high-credit quality financial institutions and trade receivables are due principally from major grocery retailers though it is the Groups policy to insure trade debt.
At 31 December 2009, trade and other receivables of 31.3m 2008: 42.3m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers with whom there is no history of default.
The ageing of trade and other receivables was as follows: Past due Fully performing 130 days 3160 days 6190 days 91120 days 120 days Total m m m m m m m Trade and other receivables 2009 280.2 17.6 4.3 1.9 1.7 5.8 311.5 2008 255.1 32.8 4.1 4.3 1.0 0.1 297.4 At 31 December 2009, trade and other receivables of 7.7m 2008: 6.0m were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision reflects receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security against its financial assets.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 6.0 3.8 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 2.4 5.7 Provision for receivable impairment raised 4.1 7.9 At 31 December 7.7 6.0 The Group has benefited from a 90m securitisation programme to allow it to transfer trade receivable balances to one of the Groups primary banks.
This programme also allows the Group to fide-link its own credit rating from that of the underlying assets and achieve a lower cost of funding.
106 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 23.
Financial instruments continued c Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk through both the treasury and finance functions.
Cash flow forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a weekly basis, normally covering a period of three months.
In addition, cash flow forecasts are prepared as part of the Groups overall budgeting and forecasting processes and performance is monitored against this each month.
This is intended to give the Board sufficient forward visibility of debt levels.
The Groups net debt level can vary significantly from month to month and there is some volatility within months.
This reflects trading patterns, timing of receipts from customers and payments to suppliers, patterns of inventory holdings and the timing of the spend on major capital and restructuring projects.
For these reasons the debt levels at the year end date may not be indicative of debt levels at other points throughout the year.
The following table analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the expected undiscounted cash flows.
Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables 477.2 477.2 Bank overdraft 34.5 34.5 Bank Term Loan 100.0 100.0 100.0 979.9 1,279.9 Bank Revolver Facility 67.9 67.9 Finance leases 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.4 1.7 Other loans 18.5 18.5 At 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables 528.4 528.4 Bank overdraft 6.9 6.9 Bank Term Loan 150.6 178.3 1,002.7 1,331.6 Bank Revolver Facility drawn down 450.0 450.0 Working Capital Facility 10.0 10.0 Finance leases 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5 2.0 Other loans 17.6 17.6 The Bank Term Loan and Bank Revolver Facility are repriced quarterly, and other liabilities are not repriced before the maturity date.
The Group has nil 2008: 90.0m of facilities available and not drawn as at 31 December 2009 expiring between 1 and 2 years, and 387.6m 2008: 50.4m, expiring between 3 and 4 years.
The borrowings are secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Group.
The following table analyses the expected undiscounted cash flows of interest on the floating rate debt to maturity based on the last fixed rate refix of 0.605% 2008: 2.77% plus applicable margin.
Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total m m m m m m m Interest 2009 51.0 45.1 38.5 33.6 168.2 2008 74.7 68.4 61.0 12.7 216.8 The following table analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments including Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed are the undiscounted cash flows, except in the case of Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss where to the outflows included the expected mark to market value at the call date.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments continued Within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2009 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Outflow 85.4 85.4 Inflow 86.9 86.9 Inflow on options 0.4 0.4 Commodities: Outflow 10.7 1.0 11.7 Interest rate swaps: Outflow 80.0 77.6 330.6 105.9 1.1 26.2 621.4 Inflow 6.8 6.5 39.5 11.1 0.2 3.5 67.6 Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Outflow 6.5 6.5 36.9 49.9 Inflow 4.5 4.5 3.0 12.0 84.0 74.1 325.0 94.8 0.9 22.7 601.5 At 31 December 2008 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Outflow 78.9 16.7 95.6 Inflow 64.3 13.7 78.0 Commodities: Outflow 24.2 0.4 24.6 Outflow on options 0.6 0.6 Inflow 14.9 0.2 15.1 Interest rate swaps: Outflow 76.5 194.5 61.1 363.4 88.2 27.0 810.7 Inflow 44.1 106.3 30.1 208.9 45.8 16.5 451.7 56.9 91.4 31.0 154.5 42.4 10.5 386.7 The above table incorporates the contractual cash flows of the interest rate derivatives with floating rates of interest calculated based on LIBOR of 0.605% 2008: 2.77% at the balance sheet date.
This table includes the effect of mutual break clauses, whereby either party can require the other to settle the fair value of the contract at that date for cash.
The Group does not anticipate a future requirement to do so.
Furthermore, for the purposes of this table, callable features have been reflected where the yield curve indicates that a counterparty is likely to call or cancel a contract at nil cost to themselves.
We note that no contracts 2008: no contracts are expected to be called at nil prior to their contractual maturity based on the current yield curve.
108 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 23.
Financial instruments continued d Fair value The following table shows the carrying amounts which approximate to fair value except as noted below of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than a forced or liquidation sale and excludes accrued interest.
Set out below is a summary of methods and assumptions used to value each category of financial instrument.
2009 2008 Book and Book and market value market value m m Loans and receivables: Cash and cash equivalents 19.4 40.6 Trade and other receivables 311.5 297.4 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments Forward foreign currency exchange contracts currency options 2.0 21.2 Commodity and energy derivatives 0.5 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments Forward foreign currency exchange contracts currency options 0.5 1.0 Commodity and energy derivatives 11.9 Interest rate swaps 161.9 237.4 Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Interest rate swaps 36.8 Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 477.2 528.4 Bank Term Loan 1,279.9 1,341.6 Bank Revolver Facility drawn down 67.9 450.0 Bank overdraft 34.5 6.9 Finance leases 1.4 1.7 Other 18.5 17.6 Interest payable 13.7 22.8 Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments that are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2009.
Level 2 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments Forward foreign currency exchange contracts currency options 2.0 Commodity and energy derivatives 0.5 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivative financial instruments Forward foreign currency exchange contracts currency options 0.5 Interest rate swaps 161.9 Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Interest rate swaps 36.8 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Financial instruments continued Fair value estimation Derivatives Forward exchange contracts are marked to market using prevailing market prices.
Hedge accounting has not been applied to forward contracts and as a result the movement in the fair value of 18.6m has been debited to the income statement in the year 2008: 18.8m credit.
Commodity derivatives are marked to market using prevailing prices and are also not designated for hedge accounting.
As a result the fair value movement of 11.7m 2008: 11.9m debit has been credited to the income statement.
Interest rate swaps are marked to market using prevailing market prices.
Interest rate swaps are also not designated for hedge accounting.
As a result the movement in the fair value of 75.5m has been credited to the income statement in the year 2008: 218.9m charge.
Interest rate swaps classed as Other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are also marked to market using prevailing market prices.
These are also not designated for hedge accounting.
As a result the movement in the fair value of 36.8m has been charged to the income statement in the year 2008: nil.
Short and long-term borrowings, loan notes and interest payable Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest rate cash flows.
The fair value of the floating rate debt approximates the carrying value above.
Finance lease liabilities The fair value of finance lease liabilities approximates book value.
Trade and other receivables payables The carrying value of receivables payables with a remaining life of less than one year is deemed to reflect the fair value given their short maturity.
The fair values of non-current receivables payables are also considered to be the same as the carrying value due to the size and nature of the balances involved.
e Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease Present value of payments minimum lease payments 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Not later than one year 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.6 Later than one year but not later than five years 0.8 0.9 0.6 0.7 Later than five years 0.4 0.5 0.3 0.4 1.7 2.0 1.4 1.7 Less: future finance charges 0.3 0.3 n a n a Present value of lease obligations 1.4 1.7 1.4 1.7 Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months 0.5 0.6 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 0.9 1.1 It is the Groups policy to lease certain items of plant and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term is three years, the longest being eight years.
For the year ended 31 December 2009, the average effective borrowing rate was 8.2% 2008: 7.6%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date, and thus expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying value.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
110 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 23.
Financial instruments continued f Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may vary the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity plus net debt.
The gearing ratios at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Total borrowings 1,384.5 1,807.4 Less cash and cash equivalents 19.4 40.6 Net borrowings 1,365.1 1,766.8 Total equity 1,064.9 991.8 Total capital 2,430.0 2,758.6 Gearing ratio 56% 64% Under the Groups financing arrangement, the Group is required to meet two convenant tests which are calculated and tested on a 12 month rolling basis at the half year and full year, each year.
The Group has complied with these tests during the year, and at year end.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences using the tax rate appropriate to the jurisdiction in which the asset liability arises and the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled.
In all cases this is 28.0% except for an asset of 1.0m 2008: 1.9m relating to Irish retirement benefit obligations where the local rate of 12.5% has been used.
2009 2008 m m At 1 January 193.1 207.6 Charged credited to the income statement 10.3 25.0 Credited debited to equity 132.1 19.7 Transferred to held for sale 9.2 Disposal of subsidiaries businesses 6.6 At 31 December 64.7 193.1 Due to the unpredictability of future profit streams the Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 48.1m 2008: 48.1m relating to capital losses, nil 2008: 7.1m relating to UK corporation tax losses, 0.4m 2008: 1.3m Irish corporate tax losses and 34.8m 2008: 34.8m relating to ACT.
Under current legislation these losses can generally be carried forward indefinitely.
Accelerated tax depreciation Intangibles Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m At 1 January 2008 44.8 273.0 317.8 Current year charge credit 36.8 11.4 25.4 Prior years credit 6.8 6.8 Transferred to held for sale 2.0 7.2 9.2 At 31 December 2008 72.8 254.4 327.2 Current year charge credit 0.6 14.8 15.4 Prior years credit 34.5 6.2 40.7 Disposal of subsidiaries businesses 6.6 6.6 At 31 December 2009 31.1 233.4 264.5 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Deferred tax continued Retirement benefit Share-based Financial obligation payments instruments Losses Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m At 1 January 35.3 2.3 4.2 52.1 16.3 110.2 Current year 14.9 1.7 59.1 17.2 10.2 49.5 Prior year charge credit 6.8 0.9 5.9 Credited debited to equity 19.2 0.5 19.7 At 31 December 2008 1.2 0.1 63.3 62.5 7.0 134.1 Current year 0.3 8.9 15.2 6.8 30.6 Prior year charge credit 0.3 0.1 0.4 34.1 1.9 35.8 Debited to equity 117.7 14.4 132.1 At 31 December 2009 118.6 0.5 54.8 27.6 1.7 199.8 Net deferred tax liability m At 31 December 2009 64.7 At 31 December 2008 193.1 Where there is a legal right of offset and an intention to settle as such, deferred tax assets and liabilities may be presented on a net basis.
This is the case for most of the Groups deferred tax balances and therefore they have been offset in the tables above.
Substantial elements of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities, primarily relating to the defined benefit pension obligation, are greater than one year in nature.
Deferred tax assets in respect of losses are only recognised to the extent that it is anticipated they will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Restructuring Other Total m m m At 1 January 2008 58.6 16.4 75.0 Utilised during the year 54.8 3.1 57.9 Additional charge in the year 33.8 6.4 40.2 Transferred to held for sale 3.0 3.0 Unwind of provision 0.6 0.3 0.9 Released during the year 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2008 38.2 13.5 51.7 Utilised during the year 29.3 4.5 33.8 Additional charge in the year 21.6 11.7 33.3 Unwind of provision 0.7 0.4 1.1 Released during the year 2.8 2.6 5.4 At 31 December 2009 28.4 18.5 46.9 2009 Analysis of total provisions: m Current 8.9 7.0 15.9 Non-current 19.5 11.5 31.0 28.4 18.5 46.9 2008 Analysis of total provisions: m Current 18.4 5.2 23.6 Non-current 19.8 8.3 28.1 38.2 13.5 51.7 112 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 25.
Provisions for liabilities and charges continued At 31 December 2009, restructuring and redundancy provisions have been raised in respect of the integration and restructuring of the Groups Irish operations and onerous lease provisions in respect to properties to reflect the current adverse market conditions.
Other than onerous leases provisions, which range from 3 to 23 years, it is anticipated that the majority of these provisions will be utilised during 2010.
At 31 December 2008, restructuring, redundancy and onerous lease provisions were raised in respect of the integration and restructuring of RHMs manufacturing facilities into the Groups existing Premier operations, the move of existing administrative functions to a Group-wide shared service centre and closure of our mill in Rotherham.
Other provisions at 31 December 2009 and 2008 primarily relate to insurance claims and dilapidations against leasehold properties.
The costs relating to dilapidation provisions will be incurred over a number of years in accordance with the length of the leases.
These provisions have been discounted at rates between 4.4% and 5.2%.
The unwinding of the discount is charged to the income statement under interest payable.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes under which employees are entitled to retirement benefits which are based on final salary on retirement.
These are as follows: a Premier schemes The Premier Foods Pension Scheme PFPS was the principal funded defined benefit scheme within the old Premier Group which also operated a smaller funded defined benefit scheme, the Premier Ambient Products Pension Scheme PAPPS for employees acquired with the Ambrosia business in 2001.
As a result of the acquisition of Campbells in 2006, the Group inherited the Premier Grocery Products Pension Scheme PGPPS covering the employees of Campbells UK business, and the Premier Grocery Products Ireland Pension Scheme PGPIPS covering the employees of Campbells Ireland.
The Group also acquired two further schemes with the acquisition of Chivers Ireland in January 2007, the Chivers 1987 Pension Scheme, and the Chivers 1987 Supplementary Pension Scheme.
These schemes are presented together below as the Premier schemes.
b RHM schemes As a result of the acquisition of RHM plc, the Group also acquired the RHM Pension Scheme, the Premier Foods Ireland Pension Scheme 1994, the Premier Foods Ireland Van Sales Scheme and the French Termination Indemnity Arrangements.
These schemes are presented together below as the RHM schemes, with the exception of the French Termination Indemnity Arrangements which were disposed of with the speciality bakery businesses during the year.
At 31 December 2008, the French Termination Indemnity Arrangements were included in the speciality bakery businesses disposal group following their classification as discontinued operations.
The exchange rates used to translate the overseas euro based schemes are 1.00 1.1142 euros for the average rate during the year, and 1.00 1.1185 euros for the closing position at 31 December 2009.
Under all the schemes detailed above, the employees are entitled to retirement benefits which vary as a percentage of final salary on retirement.
The assets of all schemes are held by the trustees of the respective schemes and are independent of the Groups finances.
The schemes invest through investment managers appointed by the trustees in UK and European equities and in investment products made up of a broader range of assets.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
At the balance sheet date, the combined principal actuarial assumptions used for all the schemes were as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes 2009 2009 Discount rate 5.8% 5.8% Inflation 3.5% 3.5% Expected salary increases 4.5% 3.5% Future pension increases 2.2% 2.2% 2008 2008 Discount rate 6.3% 6.3% Inflation 2.8% 2.8% Expected salary increases 3.8% 2.8% Future pension increases 2.0% 2.0% www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued For the smaller overseas schemes the discount rate used was 5.4%, expected salary increases of 3.0%, and future pension increases of 1.75%.
The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements.
The assumptions are as follows: Premier RHM Life expectancy schemes schemes Total Male pensioner, currently aged 65 85.9 85.0 85.2 Female pensioner, currently aged 65 88.4 87.3 87.6 Male non-pensioner, currently aged 45 87.2 86.2 86.4 Female non-pensioner, currently aged 45 89.6 88.4 88.7 The fair values of plan assets split by type of asset are as follows: Premier RHM Pension scheme assets schemes schemes Total Assets at 31 December 2009 Equities 116.5 483.1 599.6 Government bonds 12.4 7.4 19.8 Corporate bonds 71.7 303.3 375.0 Property 2.0 164.0 166.0 Absolute target return products 209.1 313.1 522.2 Interest rate and inflation swaps 25.3 38.8 13.5 Cash other 40.1 820.8 860.9 Fair value of scheme assets 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0 Assets at 31 December 2008 Equities 148.5 387.5 536.0 Government bonds 12.6 1.4 14.0 Corporate bonds 9.4 277.9 287.3 Property 1.3 191.1 192.4 Absolute target return products 180.4 222.9 403.3 Interest rate and inflation swaps 26.5 250.0 276.5 Cash other 36.7 782.1 818.8 Fair value of scheme assets 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3 The schemes invest in interest rate and inflation swaps to protect from fluctuations in interest and inflation.
The expected rates of return on assets were: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total 2009 for 2010 return Expected rate % 8.0 7.0 7.2 Market value m 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0 2008 for 2009 return Expected rate % 7.4 6.3 6.5 Market value m 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3 2007 for 2008 return Expected rate % 8.0 6.9 7.2 Market value m 506.2 2,079.2 2,585.4 2006 for 2007 return Expected rate % 7.5 7.5 Market value m 465.7 465.7 The expected return on pension scheme assets is based on the long-term investment strategy set out in the Schemes Statement of Investment Principles at the start of the year.
The actual rate of return on plan assets was a gain of 17.5% 2008: 18.2% loss for Premier schemes, and a loss of 0.2% for RHM schemes 2008: 4.3% gain.
The pension schemes hold a charge over the assets of the Group.
114 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes is as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total m m m 2009 Present value of funded obligations 685.5 2,273.0 2,958.5 Fair value of plan assets 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0 Deficit in scheme 208.4 220.1 428.5 2008 Present value of funded obligations 587.7 1,952.1 2,539.8 Fair value of plan assets 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3 Deficit surplus in scheme 172.3 160.8 11.5 2007 Present value of funded obligations 581.7 2,126.9 2,708.6 Fair value of plan assets 506.2 2,079.2 2,585.4 Deficit in scheme 75.5 47.7 123.2 2006 Present value of funded obligations 550.4 550.4 Fair value of plan assets 465.7 465.7 Deficit in scheme 84.7 84.7 2005 Present value of funded obligations 418.9 418.9 Fair value of plan assets 334.5 334.5 Deficit in scheme 84.4 84.4 As at 31 December 2008, all of the schemes recognised a deficit with the exception of the RHM scheme which was in surplus under IAS 19.
This surplus of 163.7m has been shown separately on the face of the balance sheet within Non-current assets.
The aggregate deficit has increased by 417.0m during the year primarily due to an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
This was a result of a fall in discount rate assumption used, which is based on the AA bond yield, from 6.3% to 5.8%, and an increase in the inflation rate assumption from 2.8% to 3.5%.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total m m m 2009 Opening defined benefit obligation 587.7 1,952.1 2,539.8 Current service cost 8.0 3.6 11.6 Past service cost 1.2 1.2 Interest cost 36.1 119.9 156.0 Actuarial loss 81.2 295.1 376.3 Other income exchange differences 3.6 1.4 5.0 Curtailments 0.1 0.9 1.0 Contributions by plan participants 4.7 11.5 16.2 Benefits paid 28.5 108.1 136.6 Closing defined benefit obligation 685.5 2,273.0 2,958.5 2008 Opening defined benefit obligation 581.7 2,126.9 2,708.6 Current service cost 9.0 8.1 17.1 Past service cost 2.8 2.8 Interest cost 33.9 122.9 156.8 Actuarial gain 23.3 214.8 238.1 Other costs exchange differences 10.2 4.1 14.3 Curtailments 0.2 0.2 Contributions by plan participants 4.3 13.1 17.4 Benefits paid 28.1 111.2 139.3 Closing defined benefit obligation 587.7 1,952.1 2,539.8 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total m m m 2009 Opening fair value of plan assets 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3 Expected return 30.2 131.6 161.8 Administrative and life insurance costs 2.2 5.4 7.6 Actuarial gain loss 42.5 135.0 92.5 Contributions by employer 17.7 46.8 64.5 Contributions by plan participants 4.7 11.5 16.2 Other costs exchange differences 2.7 1.4 4.1 Benefits paid 28.5 108.1 136.6 Closing fair value of plan assets 477.1 2,052.9 2,530.0 2008 Opening fair value of plan assets 506.2 2,079.2 2,585.4 Expected return 39.7 140.4 180.1 Administrative and life insurance costs 2.2 5.5 7.7 Actuarial loss 131.6 50.3 181.9 Contributions by employer 18.0 43.1 61.1 Contributions by plan participants 4.3 13.1 17.4 Other income exchange differences 9.1 4.1 13.2 Benefits paid 28.1 111.2 139.3 Closing fair value of plan assets 415.4 2,112.9 2,528.3 The history of the plans for the current and prior years is as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total m m m 2009 Actuarial loss on plan liabilities 81.2 295.1 376.3 Actuarial gain loss on plan assets 42.5 135.0 92.5 Net actuarial loss for the year 38.7 430.1 468.8 Cumulative actuarial loss 225.0 118.1 343.1 2008 Actuarial gain on plan liabilities 23.3 214.8 238.1 Actuarial loss on plan assets 131.6 50.3 181.9 Net actuarial loss gain for the year 108.3 164.5 56.2 Cumulative actuarial loss gain 186.3 312.0 125.7 2007 Actuarial gain on plan liabilities 2.6 135.8 138.4 Actuarial loss gain on plan assets 14.8 11.7 3.1 Net actuarial loss gain for the period 12.2 147.5 135.3 Cumulative actuarial loss gain 78.0 147.5 69.5 2006 Actuarial gain on plan liabilities 4.4 4.4 Actuarial gain on plan assets 11.7 11.7 Net actuarial gain for the year 16.1 16.1 Cumulative actuarial loss 65.8 65.8 2005 Actuarial loss on plan liabilities 43.7 43.7 Actuarial gain on plan assets 17.8 17.8 Net actuarial loss for the year 25.9 25.9 Cumulative actuarial loss 81.9 81.9 The actual return on plan assets was a 69.3m gain 2008: 1.8m loss, which is 92.5m less 2008: 181.9m less than the expected return on plan assets of 161.8m 2008: 180.1m at the start of the relevant periods.
The actuarial loss on liabilities of 376.3m 2008: 238.1m gain comprises a gain on member experience of 8.9m 2008: 8.6m loss and an actuarial loss due to changes in assumptions of 385.2m 2008: 246.7m gain.
116 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 26.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The net actuarial losses taken to the statement of comprehensive income were 468.8m 2008: 56.2m gain.
These were 336.7m 2008: 37.4m gain net of taxation with tax at 28% for UK schemes, and 12.5% for Irish schemes.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 64.9m 2009: 57.5m to its defined benefit plans in 2010, 24.9m 2009: 25.0m of regular contributions and 40.0m 2009: 32.5m of additional contributions to fund the scheme deficits.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Premier RHM schemes schemes Total m m m 2009 Current service cost 8.0 3.6 11.6 Past service cost 1.2 1.2 Administrative and life insurance costs 2.2 5.4 7.6 Interest cost 36.1 119.9 156.0 Expected return on plan assets 30.2 131.6 161.8 Gains on curtailment 0.1 0.9 1.0 Total expense income 16.0 2.4 13.6 2008 Current service cost 9.0 8.1 17.1 Past service cost 2.8 2.8 Administrative and life insurance costs 2.2 5.5 7.7 Interest cost 33.9 122.9 156.8 Expected return on plan assets 39.7 140.4 180.1 Losses on curtailment 0.2 0.2 Total expense income 5.4 0.9 4.5 Defined contribution schemes A number of companies in the Group operate defined contribution schemes, predominantly stakeholder arrangements.
In addition, a number of schemes providing life assurance benefits only are operated.
The total expense recognised in the income statement of 1.1m 2008: 1.1m represents contributions payable to the plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Other post-retirement benefits The Group does not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
Reserves and share capital Share premium reserve The share premium reserve comprises the premium paid over the nominal value of shares for shares issued.
Merger reserve The merger reserve comprises the non-statutory premium arising on shares issued as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries where merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 applies.
Other reserves Other reserves comprise the hedging reserve which represents the effective portion of the gains or losses on derivative financial instruments that have been designated as hedges.
Profit and loss reserve The profit and loss reserve represents the cumulative surplus or deficit and the own shares reserve which represents the cost of shares in Premier Foods plc, purchased in the market and held by the Company on behalf of the Employee Benefit Trust in order to satisfy options and awards under the Companys incentive schemes.
Minority interest reserve The minority interest reserve represents the reserves attributable to minority interests.
2009 2008 Share capital m m Authorised 3,500,000,000 2008: 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of 1 pence each 35.0 15.0 Issued and fully paid 2,398,021,581 2008: 844,604,805 ordinary shares of 1 pence each 24.0 8.5 2009 On 24 March 2009, the Group raised approximately 379.6m, net of expenses, through the issue of 1,553,416,776 new 1 pence ordinary shares.
The issue was structured as a placing and open offer of 1,055,756,006 new ordinary shares at a price of 26 pence per share, and a firm placing of 497,660,770 new ordinary shares at a price of 26 pence per share.
2008 In 2008, 4,731 1 pence ordinary shares were issued to certain employees at a price of between 171 and 186 pence per ordinary share upon the exercise of share options and were fully paid up.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Reserves and share capital continued Share option schemes The Company has share option schemes for certain senior executives and key individuals.
The employees involved in the schemes hold options to subscribe for up to 74.8m ordinary shares of 1 pence each between 2010 and 2014, granted at prices ranging between 1 pence per ordinary share and 186 pence per ordinary share.
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below.
For 2009, a summary of the Companys schemes is as follows: 1.
The Company adopted an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS at the time of admission for executive directors.
A portion of the options granted under the ESOS have now vested and are exercisable between 3 and 10 years after grant as certain performance criteria have been met.
These options are equity-settled and the number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below.
A Savings Related Share Option Scheme for employees.
The employees involved in the scheme have the right to subscribe for up to 58.8m ordinary shares.
These options are equity-settled, have a maximum term of 3.5 years and generally vest only if employees remain in employment to the vesting date.
A Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for senior managers.
The individuals involved in the scheme have the right to subscribe for up to 6.1m ordinary shares at 1 pence per ordinary share.
The number of shares subject to awards, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be awarded are given below.
These awards are equity-settled and have a maximum term of 3 years.
The vesting conditions attached to the Companys LTIP arrangements are explained in detail in the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 73.
A Co-Investment Plan CIP for directors and senior managers.
The scheme is structured as a share matching plan and the individuals involved in the scheme are required to commit and retain a significant amount of capital in the form of Premier Foods shares.
A small number of shadow awards have been made to senior management of the Group.
These awards are cash-settled, have a maximum term of 3 years and vest with the employees in accordance with the terms of the LTIP noted below.
They have an exercise price of 1 pence and remaining contractual life of 0.6 years.
During the year, the Group modified its outstanding share option and award schemes following the placing and open offer and firm placing in March 2009.
The Group decreased the exercise price by 4.87% for certain schemes and increased the number of share options awards for all schemes by 5.12%.
The incremental fair value granted resulting from these modifications was 0.2m increase in charge over the remaining vesting periods of the schemes.
The incremental fair value granted was measured using pricing models consistent with the Groups other schemes.
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods ESOS are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price 1 Year Restated of expiry Options p Options p Outstanding at beginning of year 2,559,360 162 2,598,043 162 Granted from placing and open offer and firm placing 128,597 162 Forfeited during the year 1,087,175 162 38,683 162 Outstanding at the end of the year 2014 1,600,782 162 2,559,360 162 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,600,782 162 1,096,869 162 1 The 2008 weighted average exercise prices have been restated to reflect the 4.87% reduction in exercise price for certain schemes following the placing and open offer and firm placing in the year.
118 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 27.
Reserves and share capital continued The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average exercise price of 162 pence 2008: 162 pence, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.6 years 2008: 5.6 years.
The options under the Premier Foods plc ESOS are equity-settled and have a maximum term of 10 years.
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods Savings Related Share Option Schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price 1 Restated Options p Options p Outstanding at beginning of year 20,783,748 89 11,373,922 175 Granted from placing and open offer and firm placing 854,871 89 Exercised during the year 4,731 164 Granted during the year 50,685,147 36 16,876,711 68 Forfeited during the year 13,551,818 81 7,462,154 175 Outstanding at the end of the year 58,771,948 45 20,783,748 89 Exercisable at the end of the year 9,700 177 17,495 173 1 The 2008 weighted average exercise prices have been restated to reflect the 4.87% reduction in exercise price for certain schemes following the placing and open offer and firm placing in the year.
During the year, 50.7m 2008: 16.9m options were granted under the Savings Related Share Option Schemes, with a weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise of 36 pence per ordinary share.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average exercise price of 45 pence 2008: 89 pence, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.7 years 2008: 2.6 years.
Details of the share options of the Premier Foods LTIP are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Options p Options p Outstanding at beginning of year 5,035,277 1 4,417,661 1 Granted from placing and open offer and firm placing 128,400 1 Granted during the year 3,991,150 1 2,394,634 1 Forfeited during the year 3,024,596 1 1,777,018 1 Outstanding at the end of the year 6,130,231 1 5,035,277 1 Exercisable at the end of the year During the year, 4.0m 2008: 2.4m of awards were granted under the LTIP, with a weighted average share price at the date of exercise of 1 pence.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.9 years 2008: 1.7 years.
Details of executive director participation in the above schemes can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 73.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 49 pence per award 2008: 70 pence.
This was determined using a closed-form approach as a proxy for a stochastic Monte Carlo valuation model which takes into account market-based performance conditions except for the Savings Related Share Option Scheme where the BlackScholes model was used.
The significant inputs into the model were: 2009 2008 Weighted average share price pence 41 126 Annual risk-free interest rate % 2.5 4.0 Expected dividend at grant date % 4.5 Expected option life years 3 3 Expected volatility % 37 33 The expected dividend used in 2008 was based on the annual average dividend yield for the Group up to the date of the grant 15 April 2008 and matched to the expected life of the awards.
The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the last three years.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 119 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Reserves and share capital continued Details of the share awards of the Premier Foods CIP are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise price exercise price Options p Options p Outstanding at beginning of year 4,427,418 1 1,272,454 1 Granted from placing and open offer and firm placing 226,684 1 Granted during the year 5,236,033 1 3,530,765 1 Forfeited during the year 1,624,298 1 375,801 1 Outstanding at the end of the year 8,265,837 1 4,427,418 1 Exercisable at the end of the year The awards outstanding at 31 December 2009 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.9 years 2008: 2.1 years.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 48 pence per award 2008: 66 pence.
This was determined using a closed-form approach as a proxy for a stochastic Monte Carlo valuation model.
The significant inputs into the model were: 2009 2008 Weighted average share price pence 40 118 Annual risk-free interest rate % 2.5 4.0 Expected dividend % 4.5 Expected option life years 3 3 Expected volatility % 37 33 The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the last three years.
In 2009, the Group recognised an expense of 2.7m 2008: 2.3m, related to all equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Notes to the cash flow statement Reconciliation of operating profit loss to cash flows from operating activities Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 1 Restated m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 176.5 41.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 52.3 50.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 78.7 76.7 Impairment and gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.9 10.6 Impairment of goodwill 194.4 Revaluation losses gains on financial instruments 6.3 6.9 Share-based payments 2.7 2.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities before interest and tax and movements in working capital 314.6 286.4 Decrease increase in inventories 24.4 38.8 Increase in trade and other receivables 8.9 42.5 Decrease increase in trade and other payables and provisions 53.2 23.6 Movement in net retirement benefit obligations 50.9 56.6 Cash generated from continuing operations 226.0 172.1 Discontinued operations 6.6 16.2 Cash generated from operating activities 219.4 188.3 Exceptional items cash flow 71.3 121.8 Cash generated from operations before exceptional items 290.7 310.1 1 The 31 December 2008 comparatives have been restated to reflect an increased share-based payment charge following the amendment to IFRS 2.
120 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 28.
Notes to the cash flow statement continued Additional analysis of cash flows Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Interest paid 162.5 150.4 Interest received 10.8 45.0 Financing costs 26.1 20.2 Return on financing 177.8 125.6 Sale of subsidiaries businesses 45.2 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to net borrowings Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Net outflow inflow of cash and cash equivalents 47.3 8.8 Decrease in finance leases 0.3 2.6 Decrease increase in borrowings 464.0 133.2 Other non-cash changes 15.3 26.5 Decrease increase in borrowings net of cash 401.7 148.3 Total net borrowings at beginning of year 1,766.8 1,618.5 Total net borrowings at end of year 1,365.1 1,766.8 Analysis of movement in borrowings As at Other As at 1 Jan non-cash 31 Dec 2009 Cash flow changes 2009 m m m m Bank overdrafts 6.9 27.6 34.5 Cash and bank deposits 40.6 19.7 1.5 19.4 Net cash and cash equivalents 33.7 47.3 1.5 15.1 Borrowings term facilities 1,341.6 61.7 1,279.9 Borrowings revolving credit facilities 450.0 377.1 5.0 67.9 Finance leases 1.7 0.6 0.3 1.4 Other 17.6 0.9 18.5 1 Gross borrowings net of cash 1,777.2 391.2 3.2 1,382.8 Debt issuance costs 10.4 26.1 18.8 17.7 1 Total net borrowings 1,766.8 417.3 15.6 1,365.1 1 Borrowings excludes derivative financial instruments and other financial liabilities fair valued through profit or loss.
Operating lease commitments The Group has lease agreements in respect of properties, plant and equipment, for which future minimum payments extend over a number of years.
2009 2008 Plant and Plant and Property equipment Property equipment m m m m Within one year 14.7 14.9 16.4 13.9 Between 2 and 5 years 50.1 28.2 56.0 33.0 After 5 years 84.7 2.1 115.3 1.5 Total operating lease commitments 149.5 45.2 187.7 48.4 The Group sub-lets various properties under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Capital commitments 2009 2008 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 14.8 22.8 www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Contingencies In April 2008, the UK Office of Fair Trading notified the Group of an inquiry into potential co-ordination of retail prices in sectors of the grocery market.
The Group is co-operating with the inquiry which is currently at the information gathering stage.
During the year the Group has been in discussion with one of the Group Pension Schemes relating to the possibility that it may have to recognise some additional liability.
The legal position and the potential methods of calculation of the liability is, as yet, uncertain.
In the event that it materialises, the impact on net assets is not expected to be significant and the cash impact would be spread over several years in line with the agreed pension deficit recovery period for the Scheme agreed by the Group and Trustees.
There were no other material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2009.
Other contingencies and guarantees in respect of the Parent Company are described in note 8 of the Parent Company financial statements.
Related party transactions Key management personnel of the Group are considered to be the executive and non-executive directors, the Operations Board and the Company Secretary.
Details of their remuneration are set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 73.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 5.1 4.3 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.4 Termination benefits 1.3 0.7 Share-based payments 0.9 0.1 Total 7.6 5.5 WP X Investments Limited Warburg Pincus is considered to be a related part of the Group by virtue of its 15.7% equity shareholding in Premier Food plc and of its power to appoint a member to the Board of directors, which has been exercised.
There have been no transactions during the year.
Apart from the information above, there were no other related party transactions.
Post-balance sheet events On 1 January 2010, the Group undertook an internal reorganisation which resulted in the transfer of the trade and assets of Chivers Hartley Limited, H. L. Foods Limited, Premier Ambient Products UK Limited and Premier International Foods UK Limited to a fellow subsidiary, Premier Foods Group Limited.
122 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD
