Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Shareholder information Electronic communications with shareholders Investor Relation contacts At the 2008 AGM shareholders agreed to change the Gwyn Tyley Companys Articles of Association to allow the Company to Premier Foods plc use its website as its main method of communication with Premier House shareholders.
Election forms were sent to shareholders in Centrium Business Park January 2009 and shareholders who did not request to receive Griffiths Way shareholder information in paper form will receive a notification St Albans when shareholder documents are available on the Companys Hertfordshire website.
co. uk If you would prefer to receive an email notifying you of the Tel: 44 0 1727 815850 publication, please register at www.
co. uk or contact the registrar at the address below.
The Shareview website also Registrars and transfers office enables shareholders to view details of their own shareholding Equiniti or electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf on Aspect House any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual General Spencer Road Meeting.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA The Company no longer publishes interim results in hard copy.
Shareholder helpline: 0871 384 2030 Further information including: results and presentations, financial information, share price information and RNS Independent auditors announcements are available online at www.
 LLP co. uk 1 Embankment Place London Corporate social responsibility WC2N 6RH The Premier Foods corporate social responsibility report is available on our website at www.
co. uk Lawyers Slaughter and May Annual General Meeting One Bunhill Row 20 May 2010 at 11.00 am London Insurance Hall, 20 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7HY EC1Y 8YY Company Secretary and Registered Office Principal bankers Suzanne Wise Barclays Bank PLC Premier Foods plc Bayerische Landesbank Premier House BNP Paribas Centrium Business Park Lloyds TSB Bank plc Griffiths Way Rabobank, London St Albans The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Hertfordshire AL1 2RE Corporate brokers Citigroup Global Markets Limited Citigroup Centre 25 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5LB RBS Hoare Govett Limited 250 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4AA www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 127
