Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Free Cash Flow Non branded SAP Adjusted earnings per share is The amount of money that a Non branded products comprise SAP is the market leader in the defined as Adjusted profit before tax business has at its disposal at any retailer brand and business to supply of enterprise resources less a notional tax rate for the Group given time after paying out operating business sales.
SAP is also the name divided by the weighted average costs, interest payments on bank of the software and is an acronym for number of shares in issue during the loans and bonds, salaries, research Non-recourse securitisation Systems, Applications and Products.
and development and other fixed The sale of selected accounts This software is being deployed as costs.
receivable on a non-recourse basis part of the Fusion programme.
Adjusted Profit before tax where legal title and non-payment Trading profit less net regular interest FSA risk is transferred to a third party.
Depending on the context either Save-as-you-earn Employee the Food Standards Agency or the Operating lease Sharesave Scheme.
A lease that is not a Finance lease.
Share Capital GDAs Operating Profit Ordinary shares issued and fully paid.
A companys profit after deducting its An annual charge made in a operating costs from gross profit.
Share Premium Account companys profit and loss account HACCP Additional paid-in capital or paid-in to reduce the value of an intangible Hazard Analysis Critical Control Orders to Cash surplus not distributable.
asset to its residual value over its Point.
The Fusion programme useful economic life.
encompasses a number of key SKU Higgs Report business streams.
Orders to Cash Stock Keeping Unit Bps Report in the UK by Derek Higgs on is one such stream and represents Each specific product item which Basis point a unit that is equal to the role and effectiveness of nonthe processes and systems involved is identifiable as separate from any 1 100th of 1%.
in the receipt of an order, through other due to brand, size, flavour etc.
distribution to receipt of payment BRC HMRC from the customer.
Term and Revolving Credit Facility The British Retail Consortium.
The amounts of money borrowed Placing and Open Offer or available for borrowing where Called-up share capital IAS Placing and Open Offer and Firm the repayment of the debt is Ordinary shares, issued and fully International Accounting Standards.
Placing carried out by the Company predetermined by a contract.
in March 2009 as part of its IFRIC refinancing exercise.
The Company CGU International Financial Reporting Premier Foods plc.
Cash Generating Unit the smallest Interpretations Committee.
pp identifiable group of assets that Percentage points.
The Group generate cash inflows that are largely IFRS The Company and its subsidiaries.
independent of the cash inflows from International Financial Reporting Pro forma other assets or groups of assets.
Pro forma comparisons are Trading Profit calculated as follows: current Operating profit before exceptional CIP Intangible assets year actual results which include items, amortisation of intangible Premier Foods plc Co-Investment An identifiable non-monetary asset acquisitions and or disposals from assets, the revaluation of foreign Plan.
without physical substance, e. g. the relevant date of completion exchange and other derivative patents, goodwill, trade marks and are compared with prior year contracts under IAS 39 and pension Combined Code copyrights.
actual results, adjusted to include credits or charges in relation The 2008 Combined Code on the results of acquisitions and or to the difference between the Corporate Governance published by Interest rate hedging disposals for the commensurate expected return on pension assets, the Financial Reporting Council.
Entering into a financial derivative period in the prior year.
administration costs and interest to protect against unfavourable costs on pension liabilities.
EBITDA changes in interest rates.
Project Fusion Earnings before interest, tax, Launched in June 2005, Programme TSR depreciation and amortisation.
Interest rate swaps Fusion is a major undertaking Total Shareholder Return the An agreement between two parties essential to the development of the growth in value of a shareholding EBT that allows either party to modify the business.
It encompasses a series of over a specified period assuming that Employee Benefit Trust.
interest cost without changing the projects under its banner, including dividends are reinvested to purchase characteristics of the underlying debt.
the introduction of Best Practice additional shares.
EPS Business Processes and a fully Earnings Per Share calculated KPI integrated software package in the Turnbull report as total earnings divided by the Key Performance Indicator.
Guidance issued by the Institute of weighted average number of shares Chartered Accountants in England in issue during the period.
LIBOR Proposed dividend & Wales on the implementation of The London Inter-Bank Offered Rate.
Dividend declared by directors but the internal control requirements of ESOS not yet approved by shareholders.
the Combined Code on Corporate Premier Foods plc Executive Share LTIP Governance at the request of the Option Scheme.
Premier Foods plc Long-Term PSP London Stock Exchange.
Premier Group Performance Share Fair value Plan.
UK GAAP The amount for which an asset could Mark to market UK Generally Accepted Accounting be exchanged, or a liability settled, The recording of a financial asset or RIDDOR Principles.
between knowledgeable, willing liability to reflect its fair value rather Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and parties in an arms length transaction.
WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital.
FDF Net regular interest payable Retailer branded The Food and Drink Federation.
The net interest after excluding nonAlso known as private label or own YoY cash items, namely exceptional writelabel products.
Finance lease off of financial costs, accelerated A lease that transfers substantially all amortisation of debt issuance costs, the risks and rewards incidental to fair value adjustments on interest rate ownership of an asset.
financial instruments and the unwind of the discount on provisions.
128 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Cadbury is a trade mark of Cadbury Ltd, Erin is a trade mark of Erin Foods Limited, Ormo is a trade mark of A H Foods Ltd and Roses is a trade mark of L. Rose & Company Limited, all of which are used under licence.
The Group has an exclusive worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman name on certain products.
Cautionary Statement The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to shareholders of Premier Foods plc the Company.
The Company, its directors, employees and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of the Company.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this annual report and accounts should be construed as a pro t forecast.
In this report we make references to market size, share and growth, retail sales data and household penetration which are sourced from independent market research and consumer data providers including Kantar and IRI.
co. uk Premier House Centrium Business Park Grif ths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE T 01727 815850 F 01727 815982
