Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Group We have audited the Group financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 Act 2006 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the In our opinion: consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the the information given in the directors report for the financial consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of year for which the Group financial statements are prepared cash flows, the consolidated statement of changes in equity is consistent with the Group financial statements: and and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework the information given in the risk management section set that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law out on pages 36 to 41 and the corporate governance and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as statement set out on pages 55 to 60 in the Annual report adopted by the European Union.
and accounts 2009 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistent with the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on pages 52 to 53, the directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to statements and for being satisfied that they give a true you if, in our opinion: and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by financial statements in accordance with applicable law and law are not made: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we have not received all the information and explanations standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices we require for our audit: or Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other going concern: and purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown the part of the corporate governance statement relating to or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have reported separately on the Parent Company and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 31 December 2009 and on the information in the directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Ranjan Sriskandan circumstances and have been consistently applied and Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant for and on behalf of  LLP accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors presentation of the financial statements.
London 9 March 2010 Opinion on financial statements Notes: In our opinion the Group financial statements: a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit and cash flows involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial for the year then ended: statements since they were initially presented on the website.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other have been prepared in accordance with the requirements jurisdictions.
of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
74 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Company We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December Act 2006 2009 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the In our opinion: related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial As explained more fully in the statement of directors statements.
responsibilities set out on pages 52 to 53, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company Matters on which we are required to report by exception financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Company financial statements in accordance with applicable in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing been received from branches not visited by us: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in This report, including the opinions, has been prepared agreement with the accounting records and returns: or for and only for the Companys members as a body in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies law are not made: or Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving we have not received all the information and explanations these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown we require for our audit.
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 31 December 2009. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Ranjan Sriskandan are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Senior Statutory Auditor fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the for and on behalf of  LLP accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors circumstances and have been consistently applied and London adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 9 March 2010 accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Notes: presentation of the financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not Opinion on financial statements involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: statements since they were initially presented on the website.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other have been properly prepared in accordance with United jurisdictions.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 75
