Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 50 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance.
Parent company financial statements The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the group and UK GAAP for the company give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group and company, respectively, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the business review, which is incorporated into the Report of the Directors, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group and company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
By order of the Board S C Lockett A R C Durrant Chief Executive Finance Director 24 March 2010 24 March 2010
