Accounting policies Accounting policies Basis of preparation As a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange, Arriva plc is required to prepare its group accounts in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS for periods ended 31 December 2009.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, except for share-based payment charges, pensions and derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value.
The functional and presentational currency of the group is pounds sterling.
The principal accounting policies of the group are set out below: Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Arriva plc and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for by proportional consolidation, combining its share of the joint ventures profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows on a line-by-line basis with those of the group.
Associates are those entities over which the group can exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
On acquisition, accounting policies of subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are adjusted to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of net assets acquired is recorded as an intangible asset or goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable in respect of the provision of public transport services and related activities in the UK and mainland Europe.
Generally, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion method, principally with respect to the percentage of services rendered to fare-paying customers, or the percentage of services provided under contractual arrangements.
For contractual arrangements where significant timing differences may arise between the timing of cash revenues and cash costs, revenue is recognised with respect to the proportion of the total costs incurred to date.
Revenue includes amounts attributed to UK train operating companies based principally on agreed models of route usage in respect of passenger receipts.
In addition, franchise agreement receipts from the Welsh Assembly Government and the Department for Transport are treated as revenue.
Proceeds from the disposal of non-current assets are excluded from revenue.
Use of estimates and accounting assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the groups reported results.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge at the time, actual results could differ from those estimates.
The key areas of judgment or estimation which could impact the results in the next financial year were they to change include the economic useful lives of property, plant and equipment disclosed below, the use of actuarial assumptions for measurement of retirement benefit obligations see note 20, the measurement of insurance provisions, tax assets and liabilities, and the use of forecasts in respect of the annual testing for impairment of goodwill see note 8.
Where appropriate, sensitivity analyses have been performed and are disclosed in the relevant note.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are those items which, because of their nature and materiality, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of the groups financial performance.
Segment reporting The groups primary risks and rates of return are determined by both the business and geographical areas in which it operates.
Disclosure of results by business segment is used as the basis for primary segment disclosures, in line with the internal management reporting to the chief operating decision maker.
116 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Accounts The groups operating segments comprise UK Bus, Mainland Europe and UK Trains.
These segments are described in more detail in the chief executives review.
Government grants Government grants relating to capital expenditure are included as deferred income and are credited to the income statement over the expected useful economic life of the assets concerned.
Grants provided in connection with the award of rail contracts are included in deferred income, and released over the period corresponding to the performance conditions specified in the grant.
Revenue related grants are credited to the income statement when the related expenditure is expensed.
Foreign currency translation The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening investment in subsidiary undertakings and the associated borrowings or hedging instruments, where hedge accounting is permitted, are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Cumulative currency gains and losses in reserves are recycled to the income statement on disposal of operations.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Land and buildings held for use in the delivery of passenger transport services and for administration purposes are stated in the balance sheet at cost or deemed cost.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost or valuation of each asset less its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 50 years Plant, company vehicles, fixtures & fittings 3-10 years Buses and coaches up to 15 years Railway rolling stock up to 35 years Asset useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Major refurbishment work on rail rolling stock is capitalised and depreciated over the interval to the subsequent related major refurbishment.
Interest costs incurred in financing the construction of certain assets are capitalised where they are considered significant in relation to the asset being constructed and the asset necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use.
Rail rolling stock undergoing post construction acceptance testing is not depreciated until the commencement of full operational service.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is disclosed separately in non-current assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates is included in investments.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
The allocation is made to those cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised when acquired as part of business combinations where customer related contractual cash flows exist, and their fair value can therefore be measured reliably.
Intangible assets purchased separately are measured at cost.
Intangible assets that have a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Impairment At each balance sheet date the group reviews the carrying amount of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
If indicators of impairment exist then the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated based on pre-tax discounted future cash flows.
Where individual assets do not generate cash flows independent from other assets, the group reviews the carrying value and recoverable amount of a cash generating unit.
This is the smallest group of assets where independent cash flows are produced.
117 Accounting policies continued If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the difference is recognised in the income statement as an impairment loss.
Except for goodwill, a review is made of any previous impairment losses for possible reversal at each reporting date.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making allowances for slow moving or obsolete items.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the initial carrying value and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not recognised if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and which are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised on taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pensions The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution retirement benefit schemes.
The group also participates in a number of multi-employer retirement benefit schemes and a number of state-managed retirement benefit schemes.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Formal actuarial valuations are carried out on a triennial basis, with updated calculations being prepared at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
In respect of assets and liabilities held in the relevant sections of the Railways Pension Scheme, only the net deficit or net surplus of each section that the employer expects to fund or recover over the life of the franchise is recognised.
The cost of providing future benefits service cost is charged to the income statement in net operating expenses.
The return on scheme assets and interest obligation on scheme liabilities comprise a pension finance adjustment which is included in net operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity and shown in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Certain overseas defined benefit schemes, where the employers underlying assets and liabilities are not separately identifiable within the scheme, are accounted for as defined contribution schemes under IAS19.
Contributions to these schemes, and the groups defined contribution schemes, are charged to the income statement as they arise.
118 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts Accounts Share-based payments The group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and is adjusted for the effects of non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of revising original estimates, if any, is included in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate of interest costs charged to the income statement on the outstanding balance.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than 90 days that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposures to foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk and changes in fuel prices to acceptable levels.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value, and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Derivatives are intended to be highly effective in mitigating the above risks, and hedge accounting is adopted where the required hedge documentation is in place and the relevant test criteria are met.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Foreign currency exchange risk Derivatives are entered into in order to hedge exposure to foreign currency exchange risk.
The group also uses foreign currency debt to hedge foreign currency exposures.
Both the derivatives and debt are designated as hedges of net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Interest rate and fuel price risk Derivative instruments are used to manage the groups exposure to changes in cash flows arising from movements in interest rates and fuel prices.
The derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges, and hedge accounting is used where it has been shown that the hedge relationship is highly effective.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are paid.
New standards and interpretations The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC with an effective date that impacts on these financial statements.
119 Accounting policies continued International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective date IFRS various Annual improvements 2008 1 January 2009 IFRS2 Share-based Payment Amendment relating to vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about fair value and liquidity risk 1 January 2009 IFRS8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Comprehensive revision including requiring a statement of comprehensive income 1 January 2009 IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments relating to disclosure of puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 IAS23 Borrowing costs Comprehensive revision to prohibit immediate expensing 1 January 2009 IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment relating to cost of an investment on first time adoption 1 January 2009 IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendments relating to puttable instruments and obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008 IFRIC15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 1 January 2009 IFRIC16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 1 October 2008 Following the adoption of IAS1 Revised the group has followed the two statement approach and presented separately the group income statement and the group statement of comprehensive income.
The impact was one of disclosure only.
None of the other standards above have had a material impact on the groups financial statements.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date that does not impact on these financial statements.
International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective date IFRS various Annual improvements 2009 1 July 2009 and 1 January 2010 IFRS2 Share-based Payment Amendment relating to group cash-settled share-based payment transactions 1 July 2009 IFRS3 Business Combinations Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method 1 July 2009 IFRS9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2013 IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 IAS28 Investments in Associates Consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures Consequential amendments arising from amendments to IFRS3 1 July 2009 IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendments relating to classification of rights issues 1 February 2010 IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Amendments for eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 IFRIC17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners 1 July 2009 IFRIC18 Transfer of Assets from Customers 1 July 2009 IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 1 July 2010 The directors are currently reviewing the requirements of the above standards and interpretations to determine whether there will be a material impact on the groups financial statements.
120 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounts
