Financial glossary Beta model Earnings per share EPS A model for pricing share options which applies the same principles Earnings per share is a performance measure that expresses the as the binomial model but takes into account the relationship of earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the the share price to a portfolio of a comparator group of companies weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during shares.
Binomial model EBITDA A model for pricing share options which applies the same principles EBITDA represents earnings before finance income, finance costs, as decision tree analysis by considering the possibilities that prices movement in fair value of interest rate swaps, UK income tax, may increase or decrease by a certain percentage.
depreciation, amortisation and profit on sale of non-current assets.
Black-Scholes model Effective interest rate method A model for pricing share options using the share price, the time to A method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or expiration of the option, the risk-free interest rate and the expected financial liability and of allocating the interest income or expense standard deviation of the share return.
Cash flow hedges Exceptional items A hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows.
Items which management consider will distort comparability, either due to their significant non-recurring nature or because of specific Combined Code accounting treatments.
These are separately identified in order The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out standards to provide a trend measure of underlying performance.
of good practice in relation to issues such as board composition and development, remuneration, accountability and audit, and Experience gains losses relations with shareholders.
Changes in the valuation of defined benefit pension scheme that arise when events have not coincided with the actuarial Convertible bond assumptions made for the previous valuation.
A corporate bond that can be exchanged for a specific number of ordinary shares.
Convertible bonds generally have lower Fair value interest rates than non-convertible bonds because they accrue The amount at which assets can be exchanged, or liabilities value as the price of the underlying shares rise.
Convertible bonds settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms therefore reflect a combination of the benefits of shares and length transaction.
Finance lease Corporate governance A method of purchasing an asset by making rental payments Corporate governance describes the system by which an throughout the expected lifetime of the asset.
The lessee shows organisation is directed and controlled.
an asset and a corresponding liability in the balance sheet.
Finance lease payments are accounted for as a reduction in the liability.
Debenture notes A form of bond taken out by a company, which it agrees to repay Goodwill at a specified future date and which bears interest either fixed Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a company over or variable until maturity.
the fair value of the net assets acquired at the date of acquisition.
Derivative financial instruments IAS Financial instruments whose value changes in response to changes International Accounting Standards.
in a specified interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, or other variable, and are settled IASB at a future date.
Diluted earnings per share IFRS Diluted earnings per share is earnings per share after allowing International Financial Reporting Standards.
for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the weighted average number of options outstanding IFRIC during the period and shares from the assumed conversion International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
105 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financial statements Financial glossary continued Indexation allowance PBT Indexation allowance is tax relief given when calculating capital Profit before tax.
gains that takes into account inflation based on the Retail Prices Index RPI.
Indexation allowance can only reduce an un-indexed Projected unit credit method gain to nil and cannot create or increase a capital loss.
The accounting method used to calculate provisions for pensions.
It includes not only the pensions and vested interests accrued at Interest cover the date of calculation, but also anticipated increases in salaries A performance measure that shows the number of times EBITDA and pensions.
covers the net finance income and finance cost.
Securitisation Interest rate swap The process of raising finance by creating a financial instrument A derivative financial instrument used to minimise exposure to secured by pooling other financial assets to back the instrument.
changes in interest rates by payment to receive a fixed interest rate in exchange for a floating rate interest rate, or payment Segmental reporting to receive a floating rate interest rate in exchange for a fixed Information regarding the financial position and results of interest rate.
operations in different business areas.
LIBOR Total Shareholder Return TSR London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
The interest rate quoted The growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, between banks, which is a recognised basis for calculating assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional a floating interest rate.
Monte Carlo valuation method UK GAAP A model for pricing share options that generates many random UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
possible price paths, calculates assumed exercise values, then averages and discounts to give the value of the option.
Working capital Short term disposable capital used to finance day-to-day Net debt operations.
It is calculated as current assets less current liabilities.
Loans, convertible bonds, derivative financial instruments and finance leases net of other interest bearing deposits and cash and cash equivalents.
Nominal value of net debt The value of a security stated by the issuer: unrelated to market value.
For bonds, it is the amount paid to the holder at maturity.
Operating lease A method of renting assets over a period that is less than the expected life of the asset.
The lessee does not show an asset or liability on their balance sheet and periodic payments are accounted for by the lessee as operating expenses in the period.
Operating result Profit after deducting all operating expenses including depreciation and amortisation.
Over-hedge An over-hedge occurs when the notional principal amount of the hedging instrument is greater than that of the hedged item.
