Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, excluding it from preparing a Company only Income Statement on the basis that a Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income is included in the Group financial statements.
The Group accounts have complied with the statutory obligation to disclose nonaudit remuneration.
Investments Investments are included at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
Employment Benefit trust EBt All assets and liabilities of the EBT have been included in these financial statements as the Company has fide facto control over the Trusts net assets as its sponsoring company.
Financial instruments classification as equity or financial liability Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
A financial liability exists where there is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities under potentially unfavourable conditions.
In addition, contracts which result in the entity delivering a variable number of its own equity instruments are financial liabilities.
Shares containing such obligations are classified as financial liabilities.
Finance costs and gains or losses relating to financial liabilities are included in the profit or loss.
The carrying amount of the liability is increased by the finance cost and reduced by payments made in respect of that liability.
Finance costs are calculated so as to produce a constant rate of charge on the outstanding liability.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Dividends and distributions relating to equity instruments are debited directly to reserves.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transactions or events that give the Company an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 65
