Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Directors Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In so far as the each of the directors is aware: there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of my knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
DR PEtER FINNEGAN ChIEF FINANCIAL oFFICER 24 March 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 33
