52 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 53 Statement of Directors responsibilities Independent auditors report to the members of PZ Cussons Plc The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors remuneration and the Group and Parent We have audited the Group financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 which comprise the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonable and prudent: Sections 495 and 496 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the presentation of the financial statements.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, www.
Legislation give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2009 and of its profit and cash flows for the year in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in then ended: other jurisdictions.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 36, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and In our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Group financial statements the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception By order of the Board We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Mr S P Plant the directors statement, set out on page 50, in relation to going concern: and Company Secretary the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 28 July 2009 Combined Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 and on the information in the report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
N W E Boden Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester 28 July 2009 Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
