58 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Accounting policies continued PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the office is given on page 96. financial year ending 31 May 2009 and have no material impact for the Group: IAS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It requires an entity These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1. takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
The Group will apply IAS 23 amended from 1 June 2009, but it is currently 1.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: presentation, and consequential amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group will apply IAS 32 amended from Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards 1 June 2009.
This is not relevant for the Group, as it does not have any puttable instruments.
Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment transactions, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group will apply IFRS 2 amended from 1 June 2009.
The impact is not expected to be material.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
This is not relevant to management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the the Groups operations.
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from Basis of consolidation those estimates.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31 May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the ability to govern the The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on Standards and interpretations acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has adopted the following IFRIC which became effective during the year: The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the This interpretation has no significant impact on the financial statements.
Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year ending 31 May 2009 and have not been early adopted: The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the IFRS 8, Operating segments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 June 2009.
The impact is intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRS 3 amendment, Business combinations and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial Operating profit statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures is effective prospectively to business Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This is applicable to the Group from 1 June 2010.
Management is assessing the impact of the new Exceptional items requirements regarding acquisition accounting, consolidation and joint ventures on the Group.
The Group has adopted a columnar income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. for the period.
Such items are considered by the Directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the The Group will apply IAS 1 amended from 1 June 2009.
Management is in the process of developing pro forma accounts underlying trading of the Group, and may include such items as restructuring costs, material impairments of non-current assets, under the revised disclosure requirements of this standard.
material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The interpretation and material pension curtailments.
The Directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale clarifies the limitations on recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities in the balance and nature should be disclosed in a separate column of the income statement and notes to the financial statements as sheet and may also require recognition of an additional liability for any committed future contributions.
This is applicable Exceptional items.
The Directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the to the Group from 1 June 2009.
Management expects the implementation will not have a significant impact on the Groups financial performance.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
