96 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Our 125 year history Further statutory and other information History of innovation, future of opportunity Health and safety This year sees PZ Cussons celebrate its 125th anniversary.
PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business A landmark in what has been and continues to be a activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that employees at successful business story.
all levels participate in the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The Company employs health and safety specialists and, where appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
The Company continues to monitor and increase standards of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
2002 Employment and staff development Paterson Zochonis Plc is As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the 1973 renamed PZ Cussons Plc emPp Z e lon ytm ere s t nh t a e dn ed d terge ev ne t a lo np d r m ee frn igt o eraf l too r cal staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local markets simultaneously in Nigeria Original Source community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decision-making throughout the Group with effective communication via brand acquired regular consultation groups and briefings.
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
1988 PZ Cussons Indonesia is established The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the needs of its busines20 ses a 04nd the areas in which they operate.
This 1948 PZ Cussons Plc includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and PZ acquires its first acquires subsequent training and career development.
The Company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the soap factory in Nigeria the Charles 1976 1993 Group through employee secondment.
Worthington Soap manufacture starts up in PZ Cussons buys haircare Melbourne, Australia state owned Pollenu 1884 business Wroclaw in Poland Community and charity Following George Paterson and George We support a range of charit1 a983 ble causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and Zochonis setting up a trading post in Sierra 2009 PZ purchases additional contributions are made through staff time and gifts in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations Leone, Paterson Zochonis and Company Ltd its first soap is incorporated in England to significant global fund-raising initiatives and recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are factory in committed to establishing and maintaining strong relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
Kenya Auditors  LLP has signified its willingness to continue in office and a resolution for its appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors report of PZ Cussons Plc For the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, the report of the Directors of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2009 comprises this page and the information contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 10 to 40.
1977 125 years of PZ Cussons Registered office 1969 2003 Minerva SA, a leading A manufacturing PZ Cussons Plc enter into a joint PZ Cussons House Greek edible oils and fats base is venture Nutricima with Glanbia Bird Hall Lane manufacturer, is acquired established Plc to supply evaporated milk and 1899 Stockport SK3 0XN in Ghana milk powder in Nigeria Paterson Zochonis PZ opens a branch office in Nigeria Registered number 1986 Company registered number 19457 Manufacture begins at the Pathum Thani site in Thailand Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC 1975 PO Box 82 2008 PZ acquires Cussons The Pavilions PZ Cussons Plc acquires the Sanctuary Group Ltd Spa and Sanctuary products business Bridgewater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Company secretary Mr S P Plant PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons PLC Contents PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Report of the Directors Accounts Highlights 1 Financial review 10 Independent auditors report Group 53 Chairmans statement 2 Business review Africa 14 Consolidated income statement 54 Our markets 4 Business review Asia 18 Consolidated statement of Our strategy explained 6 Business review Europe 20 recognised income and expense 55 Future plans 23 Consolidated balance sheet 56 Principal risks and uncertainties 24 Consolidated cash flow statement 57 Corporate social responsibility Notes to the consolidated report 26 financial statements 58 Board of Directors 36 Five year financial record 89 Report of the Directors 38 Independent auditors report Report on Directors remuneration 41 Company 90 Corporate governance 47 Company balance sheet 91 Statement of Directors Notes to the Company responsibilities 52 financial statements 92 Further statutory and other information 96 Our strategy PZ Cussons Plc PZ Cussons operates in Africa, Asia and Europe with PZ Cussons House its strategy built on four core principles: Bird Hall Lane Stockport SK3 0XN 1 Selected markets We operate in selected markets that have the potential for future growth, both in mature and emerging markets in Africa, Asia and Europe.
2 Leading brands We develop leading brands for the markets in which we operate.
Whilst some have global reach, the majority of our brands are sold only in local and regional markets.
3 World class supply chain We operate world class supply chain networks that enable us to deliver our brands quickly and efficiently to our local consumers.
4 Great team of people We recruit, develop and retain a great team of people who are aligned to our values and who can drive our plans for growth.
Delivering on our strategy Selected markets Leading brands World class supply chain Great team of people
