58 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information 1.
Accounting policies continued PZ Cussons Plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the office is given on page 96. financial year ending 31 May 2009 and have no material impact for the Group: IAS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It requires an entity These financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 1. takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
The Group will apply IAS 23 amended from 1 June 2009, but it is currently 1.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: presentation, and consequential amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group will apply IAS 32 amended from Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards 1 June 2009.
This is not relevant for the Group, as it does not have any puttable instruments.
Board IASB and standards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRIC.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment transactions, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Group will apply IFRS 2 amended from 1 June 2009.
The impact is not expected to be material.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles under IFRS, requires IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
This is not relevant to management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the the Groups operations.
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from Basis of consolidation those estimates.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of PZ Cussons Plc and entities controlled by PZ Cussons Plc its subsidiaries made up to 31 May each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the ability to govern the The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the income statement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of The financial statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on Standards and interpretations acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has adopted the following IFRIC which became effective during the year: The total profits or losses of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement and the interest of minority IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the This interpretation has no significant impact on the financial statements.
Group except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year ending 31 May 2009 and have not been early adopted: The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the IFRS 8, Operating segments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented Where necessary, the accounts of the overseas subsidiaries are adjusted to conform to the Groups accounting policies.
All on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group will apply IFRS 8 from 1 June 2009.
The impact is intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
IFRS 3 amendment, Business combinations and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial Operating profit statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures is effective prospectively to business Operating profit is the profit of the Group before finance income, finance costs and taxation.
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This is applicable to the Group from 1 June 2010.
Management is assessing the impact of the new Exceptional items requirements regarding acquisition accounting, consolidation and joint ventures on the Group.
The Group has adopted a columnar income statement format which seeks to highlight significant items within the Group results IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. for the period.
Such items are considered by the Directors to be exceptional in nature rather than being representative of the The Group will apply IAS 1 amended from 1 June 2009.
Management is in the process of developing pro forma accounts underlying trading of the Group, and may include such items as restructuring costs, material impairments of non-current assets, under the revised disclosure requirements of this standard.
material profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, profit or loss on disposal or termination of operations IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
The interpretation and material pension curtailments.
The Directors apply judgement in assessing the particular items, which by virtue of their scale clarifies the limitations on recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities in the balance and nature should be disclosed in a separate column of the income statement and notes to the financial statements as sheet and may also require recognition of an additional liability for any committed future contributions.
This is applicable Exceptional items.
The Directors believe that the separate disclosure of these items is relevant to an understanding of the to the Group from 1 June 2009.
Management expects the implementation will not have a significant impact on the Groups financial performance.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business combinations are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, which are recognised and measured at the lower of the assets previous carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview 60 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Interests in joint ventures Leases A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of to joint control, that is when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
entities using the equity method of accounting, rather than proportional consolidation.
Under IAS 28 Investments in associates Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, a single figure for post-tax results is presented as a separate item on the face of the lease term.
income statement as part of profit before tax within operating profit.
Long-term loans which are considered to be permanent as equity are combined with the Groups share of net assets liabilities and shown on a single line within non-current assets.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group entity are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in Intangible assets which the entity operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and Goodwill financial position of each entity are expressed in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition currency for the consolidated financial statements.
over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is currency are recorded at the actual rate of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Where minority interests sheet date.
are acquired, the excess of cost over the value of the minority interest acquired is debited to goodwill.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation of Goodwill also includes amounts to reflect deferred tax liabilities established in relation to acquisitions in accordance with IFRS 3 monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashfluctuate significantly.
Cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising on the translation and consolidation of foreign generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of operations income statements and balance sheets denominated in foreign currencies are recorded as a separate component of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each equity.
Applying the exemption under IFRS 1 First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary set the currency reserve to zero at 1 June 2004, the date of transition to IFRS and measured and recorded separately in that or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
currency reserve all cumulative foreign currency translation differences arising after that date.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences will be transferred to the income statement in the period of the disposal as part of the gain Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Other intangible assets An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet where it is supported by a registered trademark, where brand earnings Government grants are separately identifiable and the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business.
Brands acquired as part of a Government grants related to property, plant and equipment are reflected in the balance sheet as deferred income and credited to business combination are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Purchased brands are recorded at the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Government grants relating to income are reflected in the purchase cost.
Brands currently held are not amortised as the Directors believe they have indefinite lives.
In accordance with IAS balance sheet as deferred income and credited to the income statement over the period to which the grant relates.
36 Impairment of assets, the brands are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Employee benefits Retirement benefit obligations Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its The Group operates retirement benefit schemes in the United Kingdom and for most overseas countries in which it carries on recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been business.
Those in the United Kingdom are defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes: overseas schemes vary determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in detail depending on local practice.
The UK schemes were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008. immediately as income.
Profit or losses on disposal of brands are included within operating profit.
In respect of the defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, Revenue recognition with full actuarial valuations being carried out every three years or more frequently should a material change occur in any of the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, rebates and sales related taxes but including interest income statement and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
receivable on sales on extended credit and income from the provision of technical services and agreements.
Sales of goods are recognised when title has passed and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
All components of the pension cost are included within operating profit.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview 62 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and The Group operates a Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme, a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
for senior executives, all of which involve equity-settled share-based payments.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Equity-settled share-based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a Inventories straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and where the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and behavioural considerations.
Cost is calculated using the FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the period to which the performance relates and are based on the expected outcome of the vesting conditions.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest The awards under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are measured at fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective the period to which the performance relates.
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Taxation Research and development Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year in which it is incurred, unless it meets the criteria for capitalisation set out in IAS 38 Intangible assets.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts includes cash at bank and in hand plus short-term deposits less overdrafts.
Shortor substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
term deposits have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted Financial instruments for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which contractual provisions of the instrument.
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction Derivative financial instruments that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and to fluctuations in interest rates.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments primarily foreign currency forward contracts to hedge its risks associated Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments and forecasted transactions.
The Group uses derivative joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the financial instruments primarily interest rate swaps to hedge a proportion of the exposure to floating interest rate fluctuations.
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The occasional use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer written principles in the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
The Group does not probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at is also dealt with in equity.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current the income statement.
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax liabilities on a net basis.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, Property, plant and equipment including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis through Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administration purposes, are stated in the the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent balance sheet at deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
All other assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Trade payables Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
the straight-line method, on the following basis: Financial liabilities and equity Freehold buildings at rates not less than 2% Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered Leasehold buildings at rates which will reduce the book value to nil on or before the into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of termination of the leases with a minimum of 2% its liabilities.
Plant and machinery not less than 8% Fixtures, fittings and vehicles not less than 20% In the case of major projects depreciation is provided from the date the project in question is brought into use.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
