50 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 Corporate governance continued All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual General Meeting Performance evaluation and the Directors make themselves available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
Reviews of the Board and Board committee performance are carried out annually, with the assistance of external advisors where considered appropriate, and the review results are discussed and any appropriate actions taken.
General meetings of shareholders The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the Non-executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director and takes into Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolutions put before shareholders at the Annual account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance of the Non-executive Directors is evaluated by the Chairman, in General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Directors consultation with the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews Executive Directors performance with guidance remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
Voting at the Annual from the Chairman and the Chief Executive except in the case of the Chief Executives performance where it is reviewed by the General Meeting is on a show of hands but the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged for Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
and against each resolution and the number of abstentions.
The review process in 2009 concluded that all Directors continue to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting At each Annual General Meeting, the Chairman provides an update on the progress of the business over the last year and also on adequate time to carry out their duties.
Remuneration Compliance statement Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration.
The Directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Code with the following exceptions: Going concern Code Provision A.
3.2: The Board recognises that the Code specifies that at least half of the members of the Board excluding the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set Chairman should be independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board comprised the Chairman, a total of five Executive Directors out in the Business review.
The financial position of the Group and liquidity position are described within Financial review.
In and four Non-executive Directors and, accordingly, did not comply with this provision.
Each of the Non-executive Directors is addition, note 18 to the financial statements includes policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk management determined by the Board to be independent and it is the view of the Board that their respective backgrounds clearly indicate that and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk.
they are of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry significant and sufficient weight in the Boards decisions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Code Provision D. 1.1: The Code specifies that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in major shareholders to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
During the year the preparing the annual report and accounts.
Senior Independent Director did not meet all major shareholders but shareholders are afforded the opportunity to meet or consult with him at their discretion in the event that they have any questions, comments or concerns and he is available to speak to all Internal control shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2009 and up to the date of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The process includes: frequent communication between the Board and the Group Risk Committee and subsidiary management on all critical business issues regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office management and internal audit a detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting regular review by the Board and Group Risk Committee of risk throughout the Group and the risk management processes in place taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments of internal control by considering documentation from the Executive Directors, Audit Committee and internal audit function as well as taking into consideration events since the year end.
The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting process which are issued with the Group Internal Control Manual to all employees within the Group.
Relations with shareholders In its financial reporting to shareholders the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
The Company maintains a corporate website, www.
com, containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors and a subscription e-mail service is available which enables access to Company notifications and news releases.
The Company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and investor opinion feedback.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
