Business Review Governance Financial Statements Atlantic.
Our SPO-7 and Dragon Runner products illustrate our open competition has taken place for MOD research contracts, but ability to transfer products and services between markets.
We intend the principal effect has been not so much the loss of contracts to to focus on four capabilities that we can exploit globally: Autonomy competition as the new emphasis on partnerships which result in and Robotics: Sensors and Spectrum: Cyber Security and Resilience: sharing available income.
In addition, the MODs budgetary pressures and Training and Simulation.
have been well publicised resulting in delays in the letting of new supply contracts.
Nevertheless, we continue to retain our position Our Australian businesses are making good progress as they establish as the leading independent provider of research services to MOD the QinetiQ brand in the Asia Pacific region.
Our profile within the and given the decline in this part of the business, we are pleased with Australian defence market has increased during the year as we look the overall performance of the EMEA business which withstood this to broaden our presence into new areas.
The Consulting arm of our business, which focuses on provision of platform-independent advice, grew strongly in the year Overview of operations and has an increasing amount of work outside the traditional MOD QinetiQ North America QNA once again delivered significant customer base, including in the security sector.
The transformation organic growth of 15% at constant currency and 42% in reported of our EMEA business will ensure we are positioned to respond to terms.
This performance was supplemented by the DTRI acquisition the change in market dynamics.
The Managed Services business which enhances our security and defence offerings.
Over two thirds of has a number of long-term, underpinning, service-based contracts.
our US business is now focused on the provision of services to a variety EMEA importantly secured its first overseas Unmanned Aerial Vehicle of Government customers.
The deep domain knowledge of our people, UAV managed service contract during the period.
coupled with an understanding of our customers priorities, enables us to deliver real value, which in turn leads to further opportunities for us.
As the MOD continues to focus on value for money offerings and Our Mission Solutions business had an excellent year driven by further current operational requirements, so we continue to evolve our new work in the US Department of Homeland Security DHS and NASA.
business to meet their demands.
We are continuing to keep careful Systems Engineering grew strongly and won some important, scalable control of the cost base of the EMEA business and have improved contracts which position the business well for the future.
Technology the operating margin from 9.8% in the prior period to 10.4%.
Solutions has had another year of good organic growth, in addition to We have an ongoing focus in the EMEA business to develop our core last years exceptional performance.
This was fuelled by sales of LAST offerings to address customer requirements and dispose of a small Armor but, importantly, making the first shipments of EARS, the number of non-core assets.
We continue to transform our EMEA sniper detection system, and Dragon Runner, our latest Unmanned business, particularly the technology sectors, Integrated Systems Ground Vehicle UGV.
The increased use of this technology has and Applied Technologies, which were merged at the beginning of been supported by the ongoing campaigns in Iraq and Afghanistan.
the new financial year to form Technology Solutions EMEA, ensuring We expect these products to form a key part of the operations in the ongoing transition of this business from research to the provision Afghanistan in the future.
QNA achieved a very creditable 10.8% 2008: 11.5% underlying operating margin, enhanced by the higher of technology services and solutions.
margin products, which is at the top end of our US peer group.
In March 2009, an agreement was reached with Coller Capital to EMEA revenue for the year was up 3% in reported terms, although dispose of part of QinetiQs interest in Cody Gate Ventures CGV Fund for 13.7m and the release of QinetiQs prior commitment to it grew only marginally on an organic basis.
This overall result is the consequence of two opposing forces: the contraction in MOD research contribute a further 3.2m.
As a result of this transaction, QinetiQs allocation of distributions from CGV is now set at an initial level of revenues of some 38m c. 23% from last year: and the growth in services and solutions.
This has been the first complete year that 25%, with the potential to increase to a maximum of 50%.
What we achieved We grew organically through the award of new contracts such as those from NASA and the Iraqi flight training contract.
In addition, the acquisitions of Spectro in July 2008 and DTRI in October 2008 have augmented existing operations, and are supported by increased brand awareness activity.
Our ability to work as a reliable partner and supplier alongside Government customers and agencies on large and important projects reflects our focus on long-term delivery of mission-critical projects.
This was demonstrated through the award of the MSCA and DSALT contracts in the UK and in the US the award of additional contracts by NASA and the DHS.
We continued to build on our position in the defence market internationally, providing further growth opportunities.
In addition, we increased revenues by growing in new international markets, including the Australian defence market.
We have taken selected defence technologies into new and developing markets, with particular emphasis on security and intelligence through direct exploitation, venturing and licensing.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9
