108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2009 IFRS issued by the International Accounting 1 NATURE OF OPERATIONS Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European The company and its subsidiaries the group Union and in accordance with Article 104 of the together with its joint ventures carry out exploration Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated and gold mining activities.
Currently there are two financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued operating mines in Mali, West Africa: The Morila gold by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing on mine, which commenced production in October Nasdaq in the US.
The differences between IFRS as 2000, and the Loulo mine complex, which adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued commenced production in November 2005.
The by the IASB have not had a material impact on the group also has a portfolio of exploration projects in consolidated financial statements for the years West and Central Africa.
The consolidated financial statements The interests of the group in its operating mines are have been prepared under the historical cost held through Morila SA Morila which owns the convention, as modified by the revaluation of availableMorila mine and Somilo SA Somilo which owns for-sale financial assets, and various financial assets the Loulo mine.
Randgold holds an effective 40% and financial liabilities including derivative instruments interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold which are carried at fair value.
The preparation of Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires Randgolds subsidiary, Morila Limited.
Management the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also of Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of Morila SA, requires management to exercise its judgement in the is effected through a joint venture committee, with process of applying the companys accounting Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each appointing policies.
The areas involving a high degree of one-half of the members of the committee.
During judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 2007 AngloGold Services Mali SA Anser, a and estimates are significant to the consolidated subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, was the operator of financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
On 15 February 2008 Randgold assumed The company statement of financial position for 2008 responsibility for the operatorship.
has been restated to show amounts payable to Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in Loulo.
The subsidiary companies of US$41.8 million as a liability.
remaining 20% interest is held by the Malian This balance was previously offset against amounts government.
Randgold is the operator of Loulo.
The A third mine, Tongon in Cte dIvoire is in the main restatement has no impact on net assets, the net construction phase.
Progress has been made decrease in cash and cash equivalents or the result for regarding the approval of the mining convention, with the year.
This restatement is reflected in the company the Tongon Mining Licence having being approved by statement of financial position, company cash flow the COMINE interministerial commission.
statement in respect of the movements in interFollowing the acquisition by the company of a joint company loans and in notes 11 and 22. venture interest in Moto Goldmines Limited on This adjustment had no impact on the year ending 15 October 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold 31 December 2007 as there were no amounts payable Ashanti Limited and the acquisition of a further to group companies as at 31 December 2007: as a effective 10% interest in the Kibali gold project on result a comparative balance sheet for the year ending 22 December 2009, the group now holds an effective 31 December 2007, as required by IAS 1: Presentation interest of 45% in the Kibali gold project in the of Financial Statements, has not been included.
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Further details of The following standards and interpretations which these acquisitions are set out in note 30. have been recently issued or revised have not been The group has various exploration programmes adopted early by the group.
Their expected impact is ranging from substantial to early stage in Mali, Senegal, discussed below: Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and the Democratic Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39: Republic of the Congo.
Embedded Derivatives effective for annual 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
The principal accounting policies applied in the This amendment clarifies the treatment of preparation of these consolidated and company embedded derivatives in host contracts that are financial statements are set out below.
These policies reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss have been consistently applied to all the years following the changes introduced by the presented, unless otherwise stated.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7: ReclassifiBasis of preparation cation of Financial Instruments.
The company The consolidated financial statements of Randgold will apply Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Resources Limited and its subsidiaries have been from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected to prepared in accordance with International Financial have any significant impact on the accounts of Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively the company or group.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 113 108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 114 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Revised IFRS 3: Business Combinations interpretation, IFRSs did not address how an effective for annual periods beginning on or after entity should measure distributions of assets other than cash.
The basic approach of the existing were sometimes recognised at the carrying IFRS 3 to apply acquisition accounting in all amount of the assets to be distributed and cases and identify an acquirer is retained in this sometimes at their fair value.
The interpretation revised version of the standard.
clarifies that: a A dividend payable should be It also includes much of the current guidance for recognised when the dividend is appropriately the identification and recognition of intangible authorised and is no longer at the discretion of assets separately from goodwill.
However, in the entity: b that an entity should measure the some respects the revised standard may result dividend payable at the fair value of the net in very significant changes, including: The assets to be distributed: and, c that an entity requirement to write off all acquisition costs to should recognise the difference between the profit or loss instead of including them in the cost dividend paid and the carrying amount of the net of investment: the requirement to recognise an assets distributed in profit or loss.
This intangible asset even if it cannot be reliably interpretation also requires an entity to provide measured: and, an option to gross up the additional disclosures if the net assets being held statement of financial position for goodwill for distribution to owners meet the definition of attributable to minority interests which are a discontinued operation.
IFRIC 17 applies to renamed non-controlling interests.
The revised pro rata distributions of non-cash assets except standard does not require the restatement of for common control transactions.
It does not previous business combinations.
IFRS 3 R must have to be applied retrospectively.
The company be adopted at the same time as the Amendment will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010, but it is to IAS 27.
The company will apply revised not expected to have any significant impact on IFRS 3 from 1 January 2010, but it is not the accounts of the company or group.
IFRIC 18: Transfer of Assets from Customers expected to have any significant impact on the accounts of the company or group.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This interpretation clarifies the Amendment to IAS 27: Consolidated and treatment of agreements in which an entity Separate Financial Statements effective receives from a customer an item of property, for annual periods beginning on or after plant and equipment or cash which must be 1 July 2009.
This amendment affects in used only to acquire or construct an item of particular the acquisition of subsidiaries achieved property, plant and equipment that the entity in stages and disposals of interests, with must then use either to connect the customer to significant differences in the accounting a network or to provide the customer with depending on whether or not control is obtained ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
as a result of the transaction, or where a This interpretation clarifies whether and when an transaction results only in a change in the asset should be recognised, and how it should percentage of a controlling interest.
It also clarifies how revenue amendment does not require the restatement of arising from such a transaction should be previous transactions.
The company will apply IFRIC 18 IAS 27 must be adopted at the same time as from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected to IFRS 3 R. The company will apply the have any significant impact on the accounts of Amendment to IAS 27 from 1 January 2010, but the company or group.
it is not expected to have any significant impact Improvements to IFRSs: 2010 effective for on the accounts of the company or group.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January Amendment to IAS 39: Financial Instruments 2010.
The improvements in this amendment Recognition and Measurement: Eligible clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate Hedged Items effective for annual periods inconsistencies within and between standards.
beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This The company will apply the improvements from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected to have amendment clarifies how the principles that any significant impact on the accounts of the determine whether a hedged risk or portion of company or group.
cash flows is eligible for designation should be Amendments to IFRS 2: Group Cash-settled applied in the designation of a one-sided risk in Share-based Payment Transactions effective a hedged item, and inflation in a financial hedged for annual periods beginning on or after item.
The company will apply the Amendment 1 January 2010.
This amendment clarifies to IAS 39 from 1 January 2010, but it is not that, where a parent or another group entity has expected to have any significant impact on the an obligation to make a cash-settled shareaccounts of the company or group.
based payment to another group entitys IFRIC 17: Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning employees or suppliers, the entity receiving the on or after 1 July 2009.
Prior to this goods or services should account for the 114 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 115 transaction as equity-settled.
Broadly, it applies to also moves the IFRIC 11 requirements in respect transactions where the two parties are acting of equity-settled share-based payment only in their capacity as lender and borrower.
It does not address the appropriate treatment for transactions among group entities and the the creditor and does not apply to arrangements clarification of the scope of IFRS 2 contained in which liabilities are extinguished in return for within IFRIC 8 into IFRS 2 itself.
equity instruments in accordance with the The company will apply the Amendments to original terms of the financial liability.
The IFRS 2 from 1 January 2010, but it is not company will apply IFRIC 19 from 1 January expected to have any significant impact on the 2011, but it is not expected to have any accounts of the company or group.
significant impact on the accounts of the Amendments to IFRS 1: Additional company or group.
Exemptions for First-time Adopters effective Revised IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures for annual periods beginning on or after effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
The revision to IAS 24 is in two further transitional reliefs into IFRS 1: A firstresponse to concerns that the previous time adopter which under previous GAAP disclosure requirements and the definition of a accounted for exploration and development related party were too complex and difficult to costs for oil and gas properties in the apply in practice, especially in environments development or production phases in cost where government control is pervasive.
The centres that include all properties in a large company will apply the revised IAS 24 from geographical area may, subject to certain 1 January 2011, but it is not expected to have conditions, elect to measure oil and gas assets any significant impact on the accounts of the at the date of transition to IFRSs at the amount company or group.
determined under its previous GAAP: and, where Amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19: Limit on a a first-time adopter made the same Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding determination of whether an arrangement Requirements and their Interaction effective contained a lease in accordance with previous for annual periods beginning on or after GAAP as that required by IFRIC 4 but at a date 1 January 2011.
These amendments apply in other than that required by IFRIC 4, it need not the limited circumstances when an entity is reassess that determination when it adopts subject to minimum funding requirements and IFRSs.
The amendments to IFRS 1 are not makes an early payment of contributions to applicable to the group or company as the cover those requirements.
The amendments financial statements are already prepared in permit such an entity to treat the benefit of such accordance with IFRS.
an early payment as an asset.
The company is Amendment to IAS 32: Classification of currently assessing the impact and will apply the Rights Issues effective for annual periods amendment to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 from 1 January beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
This 2011, but it is not expected to have any amendment addresses the accounting for rights significant impact on the accounts of the issues rights, options or warrants that are company or group.
denominated in a currency other than the IFRS 9: Financial Instruments effective for functional currency of the issuer.
Previously such annual periods beginning on or after 1 January rights issues were accounted for as derivative 2013.
IFRS 9 will eventually replace IAS 39 in liabilities.
However, the amendment requires that, its entirety.
However, the process has been provided the entity offers the rights, options or divided into three main components: warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of Classification and measurement: impairment: the same class of its own non-derivative equity and, hedge accounting.
As each phase is instruments, such rights issues are classified as completed, it will delete the relevant portions of equity regardless of the currency in which the IAS 39 and create new chapters in IFRS 9.
The exercise price is denominated.
The company company will apply the amendment to IFRS 9 will apply the Amendments to IFRS 32 from from 1 January 2013 and the company is 1 January 2011, but it is not expected to have any currently assessing the impact on the accounts significant impact on the accounts of the of the company and group.
The group has adopted the following standards which IFRIC 19: Extinguishing Financial Liabilities are effective for the first time this year.
The impact is with Equity Instruments effective for annual discussed below: periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010.
This IFRS 8: Operating Segments effective for annual interpretation addresses transactions in which an periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. entity issues equity instruments to a creditor in IFRS 8 requires an entity to adopt a management return for the extinguishment of all or part of a approach in the identification of its operating RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 115 108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 116 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued segments and its reporting on their financial specifies that all cancellations, whether by the performance.
Generally, the information to be entity or by other parties, should receive the reported would be what management uses same accounting treatment.
The company has internally for evaluating segment performance and applied IFRS 2 from 1 January 2009, but it has deciding how to allocate resources to operating not had any impact on the accounts of the segments.
Such information may be different from that used Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of to prepare the statement of comprehensive Financial Statements A Revised income and statement of financial position.
The Presentation effective for annual periods standard also requires an explanation of the basis beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The on which the segment information is prepared Amendment to IAS 1 principally affects the and reconciliations to the amounts recognised in presentation of the primary statements.
An the statement of comprehensive income and entity will be required to present, as a primary statement of financial position.
The company has statement, a statement of changes in equity, in applied IFRS 8 and reviewed its disclosure of which all owner changes in equity are included.
operating segments from 1 January 2009, but it Under this amendment, all non-owner changes has not had any significant impact on the in equity ie comprehensive income are to be accounts of the company or group.
presented either in single primary statement a Revised IFRS 1: First-time Adoption of statement of comprehensive income or in two International Financial Reporting Standards separate primary statements a statement of effective for annual periods beginning on or after comprehensive income and statement of other 1 January 2009.
IFRS 1 R has an improved comprehensive income.
An analysis of the tax structure but does not contain any technical effect of items recognised in other changes.
The revision is not applicable to the comprehensive income must also be included company, as it already prepares its financial either in the primary statement or as a note.
Amendment to IAS 23: Borrowing Costs addition, an opening comparative statement of financial position must be included when there is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This amendment removes the a change in accounting policy.
The amendment option to immediately recognise as an expense does not change the recognition or borrowing costs that relate to the construction measurement of transactions and balances of qualifying assets assets that take a in the financial statements.
The company substantial period of time to get ready for use or has applied the amendment to IAS 1 from sale.
Instead, an entity will be required to 1 January 2009, but the only impact on the capitalise borrowing costs whenever the financial statements was presentational.
conditions for capitalisation are met.
The Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1: Puttable provisions of this amendment are applicable to Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for on Liquidation effective for annual periods which the commencement date for capitalisation beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These is on or after the effective date of the amendments result in certain types of financial amendment.
The company has applied the instrument that meet the definition of a liability, Amendment to IAS 23 from 1 January 2009, but but represent the residual interest in the net it has not had any impact on the accounts of the assets of the entity, being classified as equity.
The amendments require entities to classify the Amendment to IFRS 2: Share-based following types of financial instruments as equity, Payment Vesting Conditions and provided they have particular features and Cancellations effective for annual periods meet specific conditions: a Puttable financial beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This instruments: and, b instruments, or amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are components of instruments, that impose on the service conditions and performance conditions entity an obligation to deliver to another party a only.
Other features of a share-based payment pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only are not vesting conditions.
The purpose of on liquidation.
The company has applied the making this distinction is to enable an entity to Amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 1 from 1 January address the accounting for non-vesting 2009, but it has not had any impact on the conditions, which previously were not covered accounts of the company or group.
Non-vesting conditions must be Amendments of IFRS 1 and IAS 27: Cost of an taken into account when estimating the fair value Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled of the equity instruments granted: effectively this Entity or Associate effective for annual periods means that a non-vesting condition will be beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
These treated in the same way as a market vesting condition.
The guidance in IFRS 2 covering the amendments allow a first-time adopter that, in its accounting for vesting conditions is not affected separate financial statements, elects to measure by the amendment.
The amendment also its investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled 116 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 117 entities or associates at cost, to initially recognise interpretation may give rise to a shift from the these investments either at cost determined in recognition of revenue over the construction accordance with IAS 27 or deemed cost being period using, for example, the percentage of either its fair value at the date of transition to completion method to the recognition of revenue IFRSs or its previous GAAP carrying amount at at a single point in time eg at completion, or on that date.
Affected agreements will mainly be The amendment to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 are not those accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 applicable to the company or group as the that do not meet the definition of a construction financial statements are already prepared in contract as interpreted by the IFRIC and do not accordance with IFRS.
result in a continuous transfer ie agreements in Amendments to IFRS 7: Improving which the entity transfers to the buyer control Disclosures about Financial Instruments and the significant risks and rewards of effective for annual periods beginning on or after ownership of the work in progress in its current 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires the state as construction progresses.
The company analysis of each class of financial asset and has applied IFRIC 15 from 1 January 2009, but financial liability that is measured at fair value it has not had any impact on the accounts of the in the statement of financial position, into a company or group.
three level fair value measurement hierarchy.
Consolidation It requires additional disclosures in respect of The consolidated financial information includes the those financial instruments classified as Level financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries Three namely those that are measured using a and the companys proportionate share in joint valuation technique which uses inputs that are ventures using uniform accounting policies for like not based on observable market data.
It also transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
implements some changes to the definition of Subsidiaries and disclosures associated with liquidity risk.
The company has applied the amendment to Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the IFRS 7 from 1 January 2009, as a result of which power to govern the financial and operating policies, additional disclosures are included in note 22. generally accompanying an interest of more than one Improvements to IFRSs: 2009 effective for half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully annual periods beginning on or after 1 January consolidated from the date on which control is 2009.
The improvements in this amendment transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate from the date that control ceases.
The purchase inconsistencies between standards.
The most method of accounting is used to account for the significant changes cover the following issues: acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of The classification of assets and liabilities as an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets held for sale where a non-controlling interest given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred is retained: accounting by companies that or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly routinely sells assets previously held for rental attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets to others: accounting for loans given at a nil or acquired including mineral property interests and below market rate of interest: the reversal of liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a impairments against investments in associates business combination are measured initially at their fair accounted for using the equity method: the values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent timing of expense recognition for costs of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost incurred on advertising and other promotional of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of activity: and, accounting for properties in the the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as course of construction.
The company has goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets.
If the applied the improvements to the IFRSs from cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net 1 January 2009, but it has not had any significant impact on the accounts of the assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is company or group.
recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive IFRIC 15: Agreements for the Construction of income.
Real Estate effective for annual periods Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
This gains on transactions between group companies are Interpretation clarifies the definition of a eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated construction contract, the interaction between unless the transaction provides evidence of an IAS 11 and IAS 18, and provides guidance on impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting how to account for revenue when the agreement policies of subsidiaries have been changed where for the construction of real estate falls within the necessary to ensure consistency with the policies scope of IAS 18.
For some entities, the adopted by the group.
