108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 121 Available-for-sale financial assets it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives economic benefits will be required to settle the that are either designated in this category or not obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the classified in any of the other categories.
sale financial assets are designated on acquisition.
Current tax They are normally included in current assets and are Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the carried at fair value.
However current market taxable income for the year calculated using rates and conditions resulted in managements decision in 2008 laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to reclassify the Auction Rate Securities held within by the statement of financial position date.
It includes available for sale financial assets as non-current, in adjustments for tax expected to be payable or order to more accurately reflect their nature.
Where a recoverable in respect of previous periods.
decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial Deferred taxation asset constitutes objective evidence of impairment, the Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of method, on temporary differences arising between the comprehensive income, other movements in fair value tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying are recognised in other reserves in equity.
amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings However, if the temporary difference arise from initial Are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at than a business combination that at the time of the amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit net of transaction costs and the redemption value is or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income determined using tax rates and laws that have been over the period of the borrowings using the effective enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current financial position date and are expected to apply when liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are after the statement of financial position date.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future Accounts payable taxable profit will be available against which the Accounts payable and other short term monetary temporary differences can be utilised.
liabilities, are initially recognised at fair value and Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences subsequently carried at amortised cost using the arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint effective interest method.
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the Rehabilitation costs temporary difference is controlled by the group and it The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation is probable that the temporary difference will not costs is provided for in the financial statements and reverse in the foreseeable future.
capitalised within mining assets on initial recognition.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental Rehabilitation will generally occur on closure or after costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares closure of a mine.
Initial recognition is at the time of the disturbance occurring and thereafter as and when or options are shown in equity as a deduction from additional disturbances take place.
The estimates are the proceeds.
reviewed annually to take into account the effects of Employee benefits inflation and changes in estimates and are discounted Pension obligations using rates that reflect the time value of money.
Annual The group has defined contribution plans.
A defined increases in the provision due to the unwinding of the contribution plan is a pension plan under which the discount are recognised in the statement of group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
comprehensive income as a finance cost.
The present The group has no legal or constructive obligations to value of additional disturbances and changes in the pay further contributions if the fund does not hold estimate of the rehabilitation liability are capitalised to sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits mining assets against an increase in the rehabilitation relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For defined contribution plans, the group provision.
The rehabilitation asset is amortised as noted pays contributions to publicly or privately administered previously.
Rehabilitation projects undertaken, included provident funds on a mandatory, contractual or in the estimates, are charged to the provision as incurred.
Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment which relate to liabilities arising from specific events, obligations once the contributions have been paid.
are expensed when they are known, probable and The contributions are recognised as employee benefit may be reasonably estimated.
expenses when they are due.
Prepaid contributions Provisions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a Are recognised when the group has a present legal or cash refund or a reduction in the future payments constructive obligation as a result of past events where is available.
