108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2009 IFRS issued by the International Accounting 1 NATURE OF OPERATIONS Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European The company and its subsidiaries the group Union and in accordance with Article 104 of the together with its joint ventures carry out exploration Companies Jersey Law of 1991.
The consolidated and gold mining activities.
Currently there are two financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued operating mines in Mali, West Africa: The Morila gold by the IASB, as is required as a result of our listing on mine, which commenced production in October Nasdaq in the US.
The differences between IFRS as 2000, and the Loulo mine complex, which adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued commenced production in November 2005.
The by the IASB have not had a material impact on the group also has a portfolio of exploration projects in consolidated financial statements for the years West and Central Africa.
The consolidated financial statements The interests of the group in its operating mines are have been prepared under the historical cost held through Morila SA Morila which owns the convention, as modified by the revaluation of availableMorila mine and Somilo SA Somilo which owns for-sale financial assets, and various financial assets the Loulo mine.
Randgold holds an effective 40% and financial liabilities including derivative instruments interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold which are carried at fair value.
The preparation of Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires Randgolds subsidiary, Morila Limited.
Management the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also of Morila Limited, the 80% shareholder of Morila SA, requires management to exercise its judgement in the is effected through a joint venture committee, with process of applying the companys accounting Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti each appointing policies.
The areas involving a high degree of one-half of the members of the committee.
During judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions 2007 AngloGold Services Mali SA Anser, a and estimates are significant to the consolidated subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, was the operator of financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
On 15 February 2008 Randgold assumed The company statement of financial position for 2008 responsibility for the operatorship.
has been restated to show amounts payable to Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in Loulo.
The subsidiary companies of US$41.8 million as a liability.
remaining 20% interest is held by the Malian This balance was previously offset against amounts government.
Randgold is the operator of Loulo.
The A third mine, Tongon in Cte dIvoire is in the main restatement has no impact on net assets, the net construction phase.
Progress has been made decrease in cash and cash equivalents or the result for regarding the approval of the mining convention, with the year.
This restatement is reflected in the company the Tongon Mining Licence having being approved by statement of financial position, company cash flow the COMINE interministerial commission.
statement in respect of the movements in interFollowing the acquisition by the company of a joint company loans and in notes 11 and 22. venture interest in Moto Goldmines Limited on This adjustment had no impact on the year ending 15 October 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold 31 December 2007 as there were no amounts payable Ashanti Limited and the acquisition of a further to group companies as at 31 December 2007: as a effective 10% interest in the Kibali gold project on result a comparative balance sheet for the year ending 22 December 2009, the group now holds an effective 31 December 2007, as required by IAS 1: Presentation interest of 45% in the Kibali gold project in the of Financial Statements, has not been included.
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Further details of The following standards and interpretations which these acquisitions are set out in note 30. have been recently issued or revised have not been The group has various exploration programmes adopted early by the group.
Their expected impact is ranging from substantial to early stage in Mali, Senegal, discussed below: Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and the Democratic Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39: Republic of the Congo.
Embedded Derivatives effective for annual 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES periods beginning on or after 30 June 2009.
The principal accounting policies applied in the This amendment clarifies the treatment of preparation of these consolidated and company embedded derivatives in host contracts that are financial statements are set out below.
These policies reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss have been consistently applied to all the years following the changes introduced by the presented, unless otherwise stated.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7: ReclassifiBasis of preparation cation of Financial Instruments.
The company The consolidated financial statements of Randgold will apply Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Resources Limited and its subsidiaries have been from 1 January 2010, but it is not expected to prepared in accordance with International Financial have any significant impact on the accounts of Reporting Standards and Interpretations collectively the company or group.
