108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 120 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 0.8g t is classified as mineralised waste and is not in or cash flows of hedged items.
Refer to note 22 for inventory, while material less than 0.7g t from Gara is treatment of the groups gold contracts.
Cash flow hedge regarded as mineralised waste and is not in inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow accordance with the life of mine processing plan that hedges is recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
has been optimised based on the known mineral The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is reserves, current plant capacity and mine design.
recognised immediately in the statement of Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and comprehensive income.
are valued at weighted average cost after appropriate Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the impairment of redundant and slow moving items.
statement of comprehensive income in the periods Consumable stock for which the group has when the hedged item will affect profit or loss substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged brought on to the statement of financial position.
When a hedging instrument expires or is Interest borrowing costs sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets Is recognised on a time proportion basis, taking into the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain account the principal outstanding and the effective rate or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity over the period to maturity.
Borrowing cost is and is recognised when the forecast transaction expensed as incurred except to the extent that it is ultimately recognised in the statement of relates directly to the construction of property, plant comprehensive income.
When a forecast transaction and equipment during the time that is required to is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or complete and prepare the asset for its intended use, loss that was reported in equity is immediately when it is capitalised as part of property, plant and transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
Borrowing cost is capitalised as part of The fair values of derivative instruments used for the cost of the asset where it is probable that the asset hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21.
Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders will result in economic benefit and where the borrowing equity are shown in note 21.
The full fair value of a cost can be measured reliably.
No interest or hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset borrowing costs have been capitalised during the year.
or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged Financial instruments item is more than 12 months: it is classified as a These are measured as set out below.
Financial current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of instruments carried on the statement of financial the hedged item is less than 12 months.
position include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, Receivables accounts payable, borrowings, derivative financial Are recognised initially at fair value.
There is a instruments, and available for sale financial assets.
rebuttable presumption that the transaction price is fair Derivatives value unless this could be refuted by reference to The group uses derivative financial instruments such market indicators.
Subsequently, receivables are as gold forward contracts to manage the risks measured at amortised cost using the effective interest associated with commodity prices.
Derivatives are method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative impairment of trade receivables is established when contract is entered into and are subsequently rethere is objective evidence that the group will not be measured to their fair value.
able to collect all amounts due according to the original The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of depends on whether the derivative is designated as a the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or being hedged.
The group designates certain delinquency in payments are considered indicators derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The transactions cash flow hedges.
The fair value of amount of the provision is the difference between the derivative financial instruments that are traded on an assets carrying amount and the present value of active market is based on quoted market prices at the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective statement of financial position date.
The fair value of interest rate.
The amount of the provision is financial instruments not traded on an active market is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
determined using appropriate valuation techniques.
At Cash and cash equivalents the inception of the transaction, the group documents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement the relationship between hedge instruments and of financial position at cost.
For the purpose of the hedged items, as well as its risk management objective cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents and strategy for undertaking various hedge comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with transactions.
The group also documents its banks, other short term highly liquid investments with assessment, both at hedge inception and on an a maturity of three months or less at the date of ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used purchase and bank overdrafts.
In the statement of in hedging transactions have been and will continue to financial position, bank overdrafts are included in be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values borrowings in current liabilities.
