108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 123 been determined, includes a financial analysis based on The estimates and assumptions that have a significant reasonable assumptions of technical, engineering, risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next operating economic factors and the evaluation of other financial year are discussed below: relevant factors.
The prefeasibility study, when combined Future rehabilitation obligations with existing knowledge of the mineral property that is The net present value of current rehabilitation adjacent to mineral deposits that are already being estimates have been discounted to their present value mined or developed, allow the directors to conclude that at 3.5% per annum 2008: 3.5%, for Morila, being an it is more likely than not that the group will obtain future estimate of the prevailing interest rates.
A 3.5% economic benefit from the expenditures.
2008: 3.5% discount rate was used for Loulo.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield Expenditure is expected to be incurred at the end of sites, being those where the group does not have any the respective mine lives.
For further information, mineral deposits which are already being mined or including the carrying amounts of the liabilities, refer to developed, is expensed until such time as the directors note 15.
A 1% change in the discount rate on the have sufficient information to determine that future groups rehabilitation estimates would result in a economic benefits are probable.
The information US$1.4 million 2008: US$1.5 million impact on the required by directors is typically a final feasibility study provision for environmental rehabilitation, and a however a prefeasibility study may be deemed to be US$0.1 million impact on the statement of sufficient where the additional work required to prepare comprehensive income.
a final feasibility study is not significant.
Gold price assumptions Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to The following gold prices were used in the mineral extensions of mineral deposits which are already being reserves optimisation calculations: mined or developed, including expenditure on the definition of mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised as a mine development cost following the US$ 2009 2008 completion of an economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
This economic evaluation is Morila 700 650 distinguished from a prefeasibility study in that some Loulo: open pit 700 650 of the information that would normally be determined Loulo: underground 700 650 in a prefeasibility study is instead obtained from the Tongon 700 650 Kibali 700 - existing mine or development.
This information when Massawa 700 - combined with existing knowledge of the mineral Gounkoto 700 - property already being mined or developed allow the directors to conclude that more likely than not the Changes in the gold price used could result in changes group will obtain future economic benefit from the in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
Costs relating to property acquisitions modelling is a complex process and hence is it not are capitalised within development costs.
feasible to perform sensitivities on gold price Dividend distribution assumptions.
Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is Determination of ore reserves recognised as a liability in the groups financial The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral statements in the period in which the dividends are resources based on information compiled by approved by the board of directors and declared to Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the shareholders.
Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Earnings per share Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December Is computed by dividing net income by the 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves determined in this weighted average number of ordinary shares in way are used in the calculation of depreciation, issue during the year.
amortisation and impairment charges, as well as the Diluted earnings per share assessment of the carrying value of mining assets.
Is presented when the inclusion of potential ordinary There are numerous uncertainties inherent in shares has a dilutive effect on earnings per share.
estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND at the time of estimation may change significantly JUDGEMENTS when new information becomes available.
Changes Some of the accounting policies require the application in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, of significant judgement by management in selecting production costs or recovery rates may change the the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result estimates.
in the reserves being restated.
For further information refer to Reserves and Resources on page 81.
By their nature, these judgements are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and are based on Uncertainties relating to transactions with a contractor historical experience, terms of existing contracts, As explained in note 26 to the financial statements, managements view on trends in the gold mining industry and information from outside sources.
there are uncertainties relating to the value of the RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 123
