108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 118 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Joint venture group provides segmental information using the same Joint ventures are those entities in which the group categories of information the groups chief operating holds a long term interest and which are jointly decision maker utilises.
The groups chief operating controlled by the group and one or more joint venture decision maker is considered by management to be partners under a contractual arrangement.
The group has only one The groups interest in such jointly controlled entities business segment, that of gold mining.
Segment is accounted for by proportionate consolidation.
analysis is based on individual mining operations and Under this method the group includes its share of the exploration projects that have a significant amount of joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets capitalised expenditure or other fixed assets.
and liabilities and cash flows on a line by line basis with Foreign currency translation similar items in the groups financial statements.
Inter Functional and presentation currency company accounts and transactions are eliminated on Items included in the financial statements of each of consolidation.
the groups entities are measured using the currency The group recognises the portion of gains or losses on of the primary economic environment in which the the sale of assets by the group to the joint venture that entity operates the functional currency.
The is attributable to the other joint venture partners.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in group does not recognise its share of profits or losses US dollars, which is the group and the companys from the joint venture that result from the purchase of functional and presentation currency.
assets by the group from the joint venture until it resells Transactions and balances the assets to an independent party.
However, if a loss Foreign currency transactions are translated into the on the transaction provides evidence of a reduction in relevant functional currency using the exchange rates the net realisable value of current assets or an prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign impairment loss, the loss is recognised immediately.
exchange gains and losses resulting from the The results of joint ventures are included from the settlement of such transactions and from the effective dates of acquisition and up to the effective translation at year end exchange rates of monetary dates of disposal.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The cost of a joint venture acquisition is measured at the are recognised in the statement of comprehensive fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued income.
and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of Group companies exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the The results and financial position of material group acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral entities none of which has the currency of a hyperproperty interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities inflationary economy that have a functional currency assumed in a joint venture acquisition are measured different from the presentational currency are initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, translated into the presentation currency as follows: irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
Assets and liabilities for each statement of The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value financial position presented are translated at the of the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired closing rate at the date of that statement of is recorded as goodwill or other identifiable intangible financial position: assets.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value Income and expenses for each statement of of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference comprehensive income are translated at average is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive exchange rates unless this average is not a income.
reasonable approximation of the cumulative Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction Are stated at cost less any provisions for impairment dates, in which case income and expenses are in the financial statements of the company.
Dividends translated at the rate on the dates of the are accounted for when the company becomes transactions : and entitled to received them.
On the disposal of an All resulting exchange differences are recognised investment, the difference between the net disposal as a separate component of equity.
proceeds and the carrying amount is charged or Intangible assets credited to the statement of comprehensive income.
Mineral properties Segment reporting Mineral properties acquired are recognised at fair value An operating segment is a group of assets and at the acquisition date.
Mineral properties are tested operations engaged in performing mining or advanced annually for impairment on the same basis that exploration that are subject to risks and returns that property, plant and equipment are when there is an are different from those of other segments.
Mineral properties will be parts of the business are aggregated and treated as amortised on a units of production basis when the part of a corporate and exploration segment.
The related mine commences production.
