108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 131 13 AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS 0continued1 This relates to the companys portfolio of auction rate securities ARS, consisting of collaterised debt obligations CDOs A-2 second priority tranches with a par value of US$43 million and collaterised loan notes CLNs with a par value of US$5.9 million.
One of the CDO instruments has stopped paying interest.
The other ARS investments carries interest at rates varying between one month LIBOR plus 55 basis points and 1 month LIBOR plus 225 basis points.
The trading market for these instruments has become substantially illiquid as a result of current conditions in the markets.
The company does not expect to need access to these funds in the near to medium term.
The underlying collateral for the instruments consists primarily of residential mortgages, commercial and industrial bank loans.
The average final maturity date of the CDOs is 2039 and the CLNs 2017.
The average expected repayment period of the underlying collateral is 4 to 5 years.
Proceeds from the repayment of the underlying collateral are used to redeem outstanding portions of the notes.
The expected repayment periods of underlying collateral relating to the tranches Randgold Resources is invested in are two years and longer.
The company assesses the recoverability of the ARS investments whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable, and a fair value calculation is performed at each reporting period.
Downgrading of an ARS investment to below investment grade would be considered an indication of impairment.
In the absence of observable market transactions for these assets or comparable assets with common characteristics, the company has applied a mark to model valuation methodology.
The mark to model methodology is based on observable market data.
The key inputs to the model are primarily obtained from reports produced by credit rating agencies and comprise: Credit ratings of the underlying collateral.
Average maturity of the underlying collateral.
Default ratios, which are prepared by the credit rating agencies on the basis of historical default data.
The key inputs used by the company to determine the appropriate default ratio to apply are the average maturity and credit ratings of the underlying collateral.
Recovery ratios applied in the event of default of the underlying collateral.
The assumptions in respect of the key inputs comprise a significant volume of data, the interaction of the different inputs is also complex and therefore detailed quantitive disclosure has not been given, as it would not give the user the necessary sense of the potential variability of fair value estimates.
An assessment of the reasonably possible variability in the fair value of the auction rate securities is provided in note 21 under concentration of credit risk.
