108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 123 been determined, includes a financial analysis based on The estimates and assumptions that have a significant reasonable assumptions of technical, engineering, risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next operating economic factors and the evaluation of other financial year are discussed below: relevant factors.
The prefeasibility study, when combined Future rehabilitation obligations with existing knowledge of the mineral property that is The net present value of current rehabilitation adjacent to mineral deposits that are already being estimates have been discounted to their present value mined or developed, allow the directors to conclude that at 3.5% per annum 2008: 3.5%, for Morila, being an it is more likely than not that the group will obtain future estimate of the prevailing interest rates.
A 3.5% economic benefit from the expenditures.
2008: 3.5% discount rate was used for Loulo.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield Expenditure is expected to be incurred at the end of sites, being those where the group does not have any the respective mine lives.
For further information, mineral deposits which are already being mined or including the carrying amounts of the liabilities, refer to developed, is expensed until such time as the directors note 15.
A 1% change in the discount rate on the have sufficient information to determine that future groups rehabilitation estimates would result in a economic benefits are probable.
The information US$1.4 million 2008: US$1.5 million impact on the required by directors is typically a final feasibility study provision for environmental rehabilitation, and a however a prefeasibility study may be deemed to be US$0.1 million impact on the statement of sufficient where the additional work required to prepare comprehensive income.
a final feasibility study is not significant.
Gold price assumptions Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to The following gold prices were used in the mineral extensions of mineral deposits which are already being reserves optimisation calculations: mined or developed, including expenditure on the definition of mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised as a mine development cost following the US$ 2009 2008 completion of an economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility study.
This economic evaluation is Morila 700 650 distinguished from a prefeasibility study in that some Loulo: open pit 700 650 of the information that would normally be determined Loulo: underground 700 650 in a prefeasibility study is instead obtained from the Tongon 700 650 Kibali 700 - existing mine or development.
This information when Massawa 700 - combined with existing knowledge of the mineral Gounkoto 700 - property already being mined or developed allow the directors to conclude that more likely than not the Changes in the gold price used could result in changes group will obtain future economic benefit from the in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations.
Costs relating to property acquisitions modelling is a complex process and hence is it not are capitalised within development costs.
feasible to perform sensitivities on gold price Dividend distribution assumptions.
Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is Determination of ore reserves recognised as a liability in the groups financial The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral statements in the period in which the dividends are resources based on information compiled by approved by the board of directors and declared to Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the shareholders.
Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Earnings per share Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December Is computed by dividing net income by the 2004 the JORC code.
Reserves determined in this weighted average number of ordinary shares in way are used in the calculation of depreciation, issue during the year.
amortisation and impairment charges, as well as the Diluted earnings per share assessment of the carrying value of mining assets.
Is presented when the inclusion of potential ordinary There are numerous uncertainties inherent in shares has a dilutive effect on earnings per share.
estimating ore reserves and assumptions that are valid 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND at the time of estimation may change significantly JUDGEMENTS when new information becomes available.
Changes Some of the accounting policies require the application in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, of significant judgement by management in selecting production costs or recovery rates may change the the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result estimates.
in the reserves being restated.
For further information refer to Reserves and Resources on page 81.
By their nature, these judgements are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and are based on Uncertainties relating to transactions with a contractor historical experience, terms of existing contracts, As explained in note 26 to the financial statements, managements view on trends in the gold mining industry and information from outside sources.
there are uncertainties relating to the value of the RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 123 108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 124 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued securities held in respect of advances to a contractor rate securities with a par value of US$49 million and a and also a claim relating to the Loulo development.
carrying value of US$29 million.
The trading market The amounts reflected in the financial statements for these instruments has become substantially illiquid reflect the directors best estimate of the amount that as a result of current conditions in the credit markets.
will be recovered in respect of the advances and the The company continues to receive interest payable on outcome of the dispute relating to the cost of the most of these securities.
As these investments have development.
been illiquid for more than 12 months and there is no Indirect taxes receivable certainty that they will become liquid within the next Given their slow-moving nature, the group has had to 12 months, the assets have been reclassified into the apply judgement in determining when amounts will be non-current section of available-for-sale financial recovered with respect to indirect taxes owing to assets to more accurately reflect their nature.
Morila and Loulo by the Mali government.
The Management estimates the fair value of these amounts reflected in the financial statements are the investments at each reporting period.
Management directors best estimate of the timing of the recovery applies a mark to model in their valuation methods and of these amounts.
For further information, including the model is based upon observable market inputs.
the carrying amount of the assets, refer to note 7.
This method relies upon inputs from the ratings Derivative valuation agencies in respect of the underlying collateral, The company uses valuations obtained from banks for including credit ratings, likelihood of default and the mark-to-market estimation of the Loulo hedge recoverability in the event of default.
The banks use the following key inputs in the considers the primary indication of the carrying value valuations: of the ARS to be the credit rating and the continued receipt of interest.
Where the ARS investments have been down-graded below investment grade, this is 31 Dec 31 Dec deemed to be an indication of impairment.
2009 2008 Carrying values of property, plant and equipment and mineral properties LIBOR rates 1.21 0.25% 3.92 1.83% The group assesses at each reporting period whether Spot gold prices US$1 096 US$865 there is any indication that these assets may be Gold lease rates 0.77% 0.23 1.11% impaired.
If such indication exists, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable Share-based payments amount is assessed by reference to the higher of Refer to note 19 for the key assumptions used in value in use being the net present value of expected determining the value of share-based payments.
future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit Areas of judgement and fair value less cost to sell.
The estimates used Areas of judgement made in applying specific for impairment reviews are based on detailed mine accounting policies that have the most significant plans and operating plans.
Future cash flows are effect on the amounts recognised in the financial based on estimates of: statements are: The quantities of the reserves and mineral Exploration and evaluation expenditure resources for which there is a high degree of The group has to apply judgement in determining confidence in economic extraction: whether exploration and evaluation expenditure should Future production levels: be capitalised or expensed.
Management exercises Future commodity prices: this judgement based on the results of economic Future cash cost of production, capital evaluations, prefeasibility or feasibility studies.
Costs expenditure, close down, restoration and are capitalised where those studies conclude that environmental clean up: and more likely than not the group will obtain future Future gold prices an US$1 000 gold price was economic benefit from the expenditures.
used for the current years impairment Depreciation calculations and US$800 gold price in the prior There are several methods for calculating depreciation, year.
ie the straight line method, the production method Management estimates allocations of the purchase using ounces produced and the production method price in acquisitions and business combinations to using tonnes milled.
The directors believe that the assets and liabilities acquired, as well as fair values tonnes milled method is the best indication of plant attributable to assets and liabilities acquired.
Classification and valuation methodology of auction rate securities ARS The group has applied judgment in the classification of the ARS.
These financial assets consist of auction 124 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009
