108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 119 Property, plant and equipment changes in circumstances indicate that the net book Undeveloped properties value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not amount is the higher of value in use and the fair value performed sufficient exploration work to determine less cost to sell.
In assessing the value in use, the whether significant mineralisation exists are carried at expected future cash flows from the assets is original acquisition cost.
Where the directors consider determined by applying a discount rate to the that there is little likelihood of the properties being anticipated pre-tax future cash flows.
The discount exploited, or the value of the exploitable rights has rate used is derived from the groups weighted diminished below cost, an impairment is recorded.
An impairment is recognised Long-lived assets in the statement of comprehensive income to the Long-lived assets including development costs and extent that the carrying amount exceeds the assets mine plant facilities are initially recorded at cost.
The revised carrying amounts relevant the estimated cost of dismantling the asset are amortised in line with group accounting policies.
and remediating the site is included in the cost of A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if property, plant and equipment, subsequently they are the recoverable amount increases as a result of a measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the Development costs and mine plant facilities relating to statement of comprehensive income and is limited to existing and new mines are capitalised.
Development the carrying amount that would have been determined, costs consist primarily of direct expenditure incurred net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been to establish or expand productive capacity and are recognised in prior years.
Assets are grouped at the capitalised until commercial levels of production are lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable achieved, after which the costs are amortised.
cash flows cash-generating units for purposes of Short-lived assets assessing impairment.
The estimates of future Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are discounted cash flows are subject to risks and shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and uncertainties including the future gold price.
therefore reasonably possible that changes could occur Depreciation and amortisation which may affect the recoverability of mining assets.
Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as Stripping costs freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw All stripping costs incurred costs incurred in removing water dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as overburden to expose the ore during the production well as mine development costs.
Depreciation and phase of a mine are treated as variable production amortisation are charged over the life of the mine or costs and as a result are included in the cost of over the remaining useful life of the asset, if shorter inventory produced during the period that the stripping based on estimated ore tonnes contained in proven costs are incurred.
and probable reserves, to reduce the cost to estimated Inventories residual values.
Proven and probable ore reserves Include ore stockpiles, gold in process and supplies reflect estimated quantities of economically and spares and are stated at the lower of cost or net recoverable reserves, which can be recovered in the realisable value.
The cost of ore stockpiles and gold future from known mineral deposits.
Total proven and produced is determined principally by the weighted probable reserves are used in the depreciation average cost method using related production costs.
The remaining useful lives for Morila and Costs of gold inventories include all costs incurred up Loulo are estimated at four and a minimum of 19 years until production of an ounce of gold such as milling respectively.
Any changes to the expected life of the costs, mining costs and directly attributable mine mine or asset are applied prospectively in calculating general and administration costs but exclude transport depreciation and amortisation charges.
Short-lived costs, refining costs and royalties.
Net realisable value assets which include motor vehicles, office equipment is determined with reference to current market prices.
and computer equipment are depreciated over Morila uses a selective mining process and has a few estimated useful lives of between two to five years but grade categories.
Full grade ore is defined as ore limited to the remaining mine life.
Residual values and above 1.4g t and marginal ore is defined as ore below useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, 1.4g t. For Loulo, high grade ore is defined as ore at each statement of financial position date.
Changes above 3.5g t and medium grade is defined as ore to the estimated residual values or useful lives are above 2.0g t. All stockpile grades are currently being accounted for prospectively.
processed and all ore is expected to be fully Impairment processed.
This does not include high grade tailings The carrying amount of the property, plant and at Morila, which are carried at zero value due to equipment of the group is compared to the uncertainty as to whether they will be processed recoverable amount of the assets whenever events or through the plant.
For Loulo, Yalea material less than RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 119
