108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 147 GROUP 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2009 2008 24 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 0continued1 Key management remuneration Short term employee benefits 9 491 14 194 Share-based payments 5 472 3 070 Total 14 963 17 264 This includes compensation for two executive directors 2008: Two, eight non-executive directors 2008: Eight and thirteen executive management personnel 2008: Twelve.
Refer to directors and executives profiles on pages 6, 7 and 12 and 13 for detail of their roles and responsibilities.
25 NON GAAP INFORMATION Randgold has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
As the measures are not defined under IFRS they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures or performance but management has included them as these are considered to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
These measures are further explained below.
Total cash costs and cash costs per ounce are non-GAAP measures.
Total cash costs and cash costs per ounce are calculated using guidance issued by the Gold Institute.
The Gold Institute was a non profit industry association comprised of leading gold producers, refiners, bullion suppliers and manufacturers.
This institute has now been incorporated into the National Mining Association.
The guidance was first issued in 1996 and revised in November 1999.
Total cash costs, as defined in the Gold Institutes guidance, include mine production, transport and refinery costs, general and administrative costs, movement in production and ore stockpiles, transfers to and from deferred stripping where relevant and royalties.
Under the companys revised accounting policies, there are no transfers to and from deferred stripping.
Total cash costs per ounce are calculated by dividing total cash costs, as determined using the Gold Institute guidance, by gold ounces produced for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce should not be considered by investors as an alternative to operating profit or net profit attributable to shareholders, as an alternative to other IFRS measures or an indicator of our performance.
The data does not have a meaning prescribed by IFRS and therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to data presented by gold producers who do not follow the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
In particular depreciation, amortisation and share-based payments would be included in a measure of total costs of producing gold under IFRS, but are not included in total cash costs under the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
Furthermore, while the Gold Institute has provided a definition for the calculation of total cash costs and total cash costs per ounce, the calculation of these numbers may vary from company to company and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
However, Randgold believes that total cash costs per ounce is a useful indicator to investors and management of a mining companys performance as it provides an indication of a companys profitability and efficiency, the trends in cash costs as the companys operations mature, and a benchmark of performance to allow for comparison against other companies.
Cash operating costs and cash operating costs per ounce are calculated by deducting royalties from total cash costs.
Cash operating costs per ounce are calculated by dividing cash operating costs by gold ounces produced for the periods presented.
Gold sales and the average price received are non GAAP measures.
Gold sales represent the sales of gold at spot and the gains losses on hedge contracts which have been delivered into at the designated maturity date.
It excludes gains losses on hedge contracts which have been rolled forward to match future sales.
This adjustment is considered appropriate because no cash is received paid in respect of these contracts.
Average price received is calculated by dividing gold sales by gold ounces sold.
Profit from mining activity is calculated by subtracting total cash costs from gold sales for all periods presented.
