108-150 Financial Statements R corrected:RRL AR Financials 2010 03 20 10:40 AM Page 122 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Termination benefits as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at Termination benefits are payable when employment is the estimated present value of the underlying lease terminated before the normal retirement date, or payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy the liability and the finance charges to achieve a in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The termination benefits when it is demonstrably interest portion of the finance payment is charged to committed to either: Terminating the employment of the statement of comprehensive income over the lease current employees according to a detailed formal plan period.
The plant and equipment acquired under the without possibility of withdrawal: or providing finance lease are depreciated over the useful lives of termination benefits as a result of an offer made to the assets, or over the lease term if shorter.
Benefits falling due Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and more than 12 months after statement of financial rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are position date are discounted to present value.
Payments made under Profit-sharing and bonus plans operating leases are charged to the statement of The group recognises a liability and an expense for comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over bonuses.
The group recognises a provision where the period of the lease.
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice Revenue recognition that has created a constructive obligation.
The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
Share-based payments Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts The fair value of the employee services received in is recognised when the price is determinable, the exchange for the grant of options or shares after product has been delivered in accordance with the 7 November 2002 is recognised as an expense.
The terms of the contract, the significant risks and rewards total amount to be expensed rateably over the vesting of ownership have been transferred to the customer period is determined by reference to the fair value of and collection of the sales price is reasonably assured.
the options or shares determined at the grant date, These criteria are met when the gold leaves the mines excluding the impact of any non-market vesting smelt houses.
As sales from gold contracts are conditions.
subject to customer survey adjustment, sales are The total amount to be expensed is determined by initially recorded on a provisional basis using the reference to the fair value of the options granted: groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Including any market performance conditions: and Subsequent adjustments are recorded in revenue to Excluding the impact of any service and nontake into account final assay and weight certificates market performance vesting conditions for from the refinery, if different from the initial certificates.
example, profitability, sales growth targets and The differences between the estimated and actual remaining an employee of the entity over a contained gold have historically not been significant.
Losses on matured hedges are included within Non-market vesting conditions are included in revenue as these pertain to losses incurred as gold assumptions about the number of options that are hedges are settled and the actual price received see expected to become exercisable or the number of accounting policy on derivatives.
shares that the employee will ultimately receive.
This Exploration and evaluation costs estimate is revised at each statement of financial The group expenses all exploration and evaluation position date and the difference is charged or credited expenditures until the directors conclude that a future to the statement of comprehensive income, with a economic benefit is more likely than not of being corresponding adjustment to equity.
While the criteria for concluding The proceeds received on exercise of the options net that an expenditure should be capitalised is always of any directly attributable transaction costs are probable, the information that the directors use to credited to equity.
make that determination depends on the level of When the options are exercised, the company issues exploration.
The proceeds received net of any directly Exploration and evaluation expenditure on brownfield attributable transaction costs are credited to share sites, being those adjacent to mineral deposits which capital nominal value and share premium when the are already being mined or developed, is expensed as options are exercised.
incurred until the directors are able to demonstrate that Leases future economic benefits are probable through the Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, completion of a prefeasibility study, after which the a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement expenditure is capitalised as a mine development cost.
and requires an assessment of whether fulfilment of A prefeasibility study consists of a comprehensive the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific study of the viability of a mineral project that has asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys advanced to a stage where the mining method, in the a right to use the asset.
Leases of plant and case of underground mining, or the pit configuration, in equipment where the group assumes a significant the case of an open pit, has been established, and portion of risks and rewards of ownership are classified which, if an effective method of mineral processing has 122 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009
