90-107 Governance R 3 25 10 8:42 AM Page 17 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES and approval of the annual financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the statements for the group in accordance with United Kingdom governing the preparation and International Financial Reporting Standards as dissemination of the financial information may differ adopted by the European Union IFRS.
directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT IFRS.
PURSUANT TO DTR4 The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: The directors are responsible for the maintenance The financial statements, presented on pages of proper accounting records and the preparation, 108 to 150, have been prepared in integrity and fair presentation of the financial accordance with International Financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited Reporting Standards as endorsed by the company and its subsidiaries group.
European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the requirements of The directors also prepared the other information Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a included in the annual report and are responsible true and fair view of the profit of the group for both its accuracy and its consistency with the for the year ending 31 December 2009 and financial statements.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position of the group and parent company as at The directors also have general responsibility for 31 December 2009. selecting suitable accounting policies and applying The annual report includes a fair review of them consistently, and for taking such steps as the development and performance of the are reasonably open to them to safeguard the business and the financial position of the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud group and the parent company, together and other irregularities.
The going concern basis with a description of the principal risks and has been adopted in preparing the financial uncertainties that they face.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group and company will not be a The financial statements were approved by the going concern in the foreseeable future based on board of directors on 15 March 2010 and are forecasts and available cash resources.
The viability signed on its behalf by: of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm, BDO LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe Mark Bristow that all representations made to the independent Chief executive auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO LLPs audit report is presented on page 107.
The maintenance and integrity of the Randgold Resources Limited website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Philippe Litard occurred to the report since it was initially presented Chairman RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 106 Composite
