DIRECTORS REPORT: STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED B Political donations policy is to provide fair conditions for all employees, regardless We made no political donations during the year.
of gender, family status, religion, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Contractual arrangements We assess and record any risks in our dealings with major Health and safety suppliers as part of the Groups overall risk management process.
Safety is as important to the performance of our business as it is Contingency plans are in place to deal with events should key to the well being of our people.
We believe that operational supply arrangements be terminated without due warning.
excellence customer satisfaction and financial strength Our procurement team also reviews the financial health of cannot be achieved without safety excellence.
We have concluded that, while unexpected We undertake to demonstrate our commitment to the safety termination of any of the Groups major contractors would be of our people by promising to: disruptive, it would not have a severe adverse effect.
uphold safety as the top priority and a core value of our business: Creditor payment policy maintain an effective safety management system: The Company and its individual businesses agree terms and provide visible leadership to promote safety: conditions for business transactions with their respective provide the training and tools necessary to perform work suppliers.
Payments are made to suppliers once they have met safely: and these terms and conditions.
guarantee all employees the freedom and power to demand The Company has no trade creditors.
safe working conditions, prevent hazards and correct deficiencies on the job.
Powers and provisions The chief executive is the main board director responsible for Directors powers health and safety throughout the Group.
Rank has in place a Subject to legislation, the directors may exercise all the powers health and safety policy including a statement of intent which permitted by the Companys memorandum and articles of is reviewed and signed by the chief executive on an annual association.
A copy of these can be obtained by writing to the basis.
The policy and associated health and safety arrangements company secretary, or from Companies House.
apply to all Ranks businesses UK and overseas.
The business The articles contain provisions to empower the directors managing directors are responsible for the implementation of on certain specific matters, including: the safety management systems across their individual Appointment of directors, subject to subsequent shareholder businesses.
Designated responsible personnel are identified and approval.
responsible for maintaining safety management systems to Delegation of powers to a director, secretary or committee ensure legal compliance and reflecting best practice and of one or more persons.
advising line management on how to implement such systems.
The Companys powers to borrow money.
Satisfactory employee consultation processes are in place The ability of a director to vote on matters in which he has and the board is regularly informed of health and safety issues an interest.
Changes to the Companys articles of association can only be Financial statements and disclosure made by a resolution passed by a majority of no less than 75% of shareholders.
Shareholder approval will be sought at We are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the 2010 annual general meeting to adopt new articles of Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements association in order to update the existing articles, primarily of the Group and the Company, in accordance with the law.
to reflect the implementation of the remaining provisions of To prepare our Financial Statements, we are required to: the Companies Act 2006.
Further details are contained in the Select suitable accounting policies and apply them explanatory notes to the 2010 annual general meeting circular.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Conflicts of interest prudent.
We have a statutory duty to avoid directors conflicts of interest.
Confirm that the Financial Statements comply with Our articles of association permit directors to adopt a policy and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as procedure for managing and, if appropriate, authorising actual adopted by the European Union.
or potential conflicts of interest.
Prepare the Financial Statements for both the Company We review directors conflicts of interest at least once a year.
and the Group on the going concern basis, unless it is Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments appropriate to presume that the Group will not continue before agreeing to take them on, so that any conflicts of interest in business, in which case there should be supporting can be identified and addressed.
The board assesses conflicts of assumptions or qualifications.
interest before making any new appointments.
Company law requires us to prepare Financial Statements for Employment policies each financial year.
The Financial Statements must give a true We recognise the essential contribution of our employees.
Our and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and policy is to devote a substantial budget to train, develop and the Group and of profit or loss for the period.
motivate employees and, in particular, to encourage high levels We confirm that we have complied with all of the above.
of employee and customer satisfaction.
Accounting records Diversity We must keep proper accounting records that disclose with We believe companies benefit from having a diverse workforce reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the and we apply equal opportunities policies when recruiting.
Our Company and the Group and ensure that the Financial 56 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
