STATUTORY REPORTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C   We have audited the Group and parent company financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements of The Rank Group Plc for the year ended 31 December in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: 2009 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group the parent company financial statements have been properly and parent company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and parent company Statements of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Changes in Equity, the Accounting Policies and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union lAS Regulation.
and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as Opinion on other matters prescribed applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies by the Companies Act 2006 Act 2006.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited and auditors has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the information given in the Directors Report for the Statement set out on pages 56 and 57, the directors are financial year for which the financial statements are prepared responsible for the preparation of the financial statements is consistent with the financial statements.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance Matters on which we are required to with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing report by exception UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance to you if, in our opinion: with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other not been received from branches not visited by us: or person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may the parent company financial statements and the part of come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts law are not made: or and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we have not received all the information and explanations reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the directors statement, set out on page 37, in relation to policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys going concern: and circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements  In our opinion:  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 1EmbankmentPlace state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at London 31 December 2009 and of the Groups profit, and the Groups WC2N6RH and parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: 24February2010 58 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C Thisyearsaccounts Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 restated Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items exceptional items items note4 Total items note4 Total Note m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 2 540.0 540.0 522.2 522.2 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 2 19.5 19.5 16.8 16.8 Revenue 2 520.5 520.5 505.4 505.4 Cost of sales 2 278.4 278.4 259.8 259.8 Gross profit 242.1 242.1 245.6 245.6 Other operating costs 2 184.1 2.8 181.3 185.3 69.4 254.7 Group operating profit loss 2,3 58.0 2.8 60.8 60.3 69.4 9.1 Financing: finance costs 10.9 10.9 29.3 29.3 finance income 0.9 0.9 8.3 5.1 13.4 other financial gains losses 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 Total net financing charge income 5 8.8 8.8 22.1 5.1 17.0 Profit loss before taxation 49.2 2.8 52.0 38.2 64.3 26.1 Taxation 6 14.3 0.2 14.1 12.7 18.9 6.2 Profit loss for the year from continuing operations 34.9 3.0 37.9 25.5 45.4 19.9 Discontinued operations 0.6 0.6 15.0 15.0 Profit loss for the year 34.9 3.6 38.5 25.5 30.4 4.9 Earnings loss  basic 9 9.0p 0.9p 9.9p 6.5p 7.8 p 1.3 p diluted 9 9.0p 0.9p 9.9p 6.5p 7.8 p 1.3 p Earnings loss per share continuing operations basic 9 9.0p 0.7p 9.7p 6.5p 11.6 p 5.1 p diluted 9 9.0p 0.7p 9.7p 6.5p 11.6 p 5.1 p Earnings per share discontinued operations basic 9 0.2p 0.2p 3.8p 3.8p diluted 9 0.2p 0.2p 3.8p 3.8p , .
4 c. Details of dividends paid and payable to equity shareholders are disclosed in note 8.
The notes on pages 63 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2009 2009 2008 Note m m Comprehensive income: Profit loss for the year 38.5 4.9 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation net of tax and hedging 3.3 18.7 Actuarial loss on retirement benefits net of tax 33 0.4 5.5 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 0.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 34.8 8.9 The tax effect of items of comprehensive income is disclosed in note 6.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C Balance sheets at 31 December 2009 Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 Note m m m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 178.0 183.2 Property, plant and equipment 11 187.5 179.6 Investments in subsidiaries 13 1,026.3 1,026.3 Deferred tax assets 24 23.5 43.3 Trade and other receivables 16 2.1 1.9 391.1 408.0 1,026.3 1,026.3 Current assets Inventories 15 3.7 3.8 Trade and other receivables 16 26.0 34.3 43.6 43.6 Income tax receivable 18 0.4 3.9 Derivative financial instruments 21 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents 29 64.1 111.7 94.2 164.9 43.6 43.6 Total assets 485.3 572.9 1,069.9 1,069.9 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 17 105.9 111.9 752.7 564.8 Income tax payable 18 26.3 6.6 Financial liabilities financial guarantees 19 1.4 1.0 borrowings 20 7.8 168.9 160.7 derivative financial instruments 21 14.5 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 26 9.0 13.0 149.0 314.9 754.1 726.5 Net current liabilities 54.8 150.0 710.5 682.9 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities borrowings 20 242.3 170.9 Deferred tax liabilities 24 6.3 6.9 Other non-current liabilities 25 18.8 38.8 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 26 34.6 43.3 Retirement benefit obligations 33 2.9 2.5 304.9 262.4 Total liabilities 453.9 577.3 754.1 726.5 Net assets liabilities 31.4 4.4 315.8 343.4 Capital and reserves attributable to the Companys equity shareholders Share capital 27 54.2 54.2 54.2 54.2 Share premium 98.2 98.2 98.2 98.2 Capital redemption reserve 33.4 33.4 33.4 33.4 Exchange translation reserve 15.1 18.4 Equity component of convertible bond 0.3 0.3 Retained losses earnings 169.5 208.9 130.0 157.3 Total shareholders equity deficit 31.4 4.4 315.8 343.4 The notes on pages 63 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the board on 24 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Ian Burke, Paddy Gallagher, Chiefexecutive Financedirector 60 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2009 Group Equity Capital Exchange componentof Share Share redemption translation Fairvalue convertible Retained capital premium reserve reserve reserve bond losses Total m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 54.2 98.2 33.4 0.3 0.6 3.9 202.1 13.3 Comprehensive income: Loss for the year 3.6 1.3 4.9 Other comprehensive income: Exchange adjustments net of tax 18.7 18.7 Actuarial loss on retirement benefits net of tax 5.5 5.5 Revaluation of available-for-sale securities recycled within net profit 0.6 0.6 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 18.7 0.6 3.6 6.8 8.9 At 31 December 2008 54.2 98.2 33.4 18.4 0.3 208.9 4.4 Comprehensive income: Profit for the year 0.3 38.8 38.5 Other comprehensive income: Exchange adjustments net of tax 3.3 3.3 Actuarial loss on retirement benefits net of tax 0.4 0.4 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 3.3 0.3 38.4 34.8 Transactions with owners: Credit in respect of employee share schemes 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 2009 54.2 98.2 33.4 15.1 169.5 31.4 There were no transactions with owners in 2008.
There were no minority interests in either year.
The reserves of subsidiary undertakings have predominantly been retained to finance their businesses.
Company Equity Capital componentof Share Share redemption convertible Unrealised Retained capital premium reserve bond profits earnings Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 54.2 98.2 33.4 3.9 159.8 345.5 695.0 Loss and total comprehensive expense for the year 3.6 159.8 188.2 351.6 At 31 December 2008 54.2 98.2 33.4 0.3 157.3 343.4 Loss and total comprehensive expense for the year 0.3 27.7 28.0 Transactions with owners: Credit in respect of employee share schemes 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2009 54.2 98.2 33.4 130.0 315.8 There were no transactions with owners in 2008.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C Cash flow statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 Note m m m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from used in operations 28 69.7 122.5 0.1 0.1 Interest received 7.9 2.6 Interest paid 11.4 23.8 3.0 6.5 Tax received paid 4.3 2.9 Net cash from used in operating activities 70.5 98.4 2.9 6.6 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of businesses including deferred consideration 30 0.3 3.8 Net payments in respect of hedges 5.2 4.8 Net proceeds from transfer of defined benefit pension asset 4 28.0 Purchase of intangible assets 3.6 5.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 30.7 22.8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.6 5.6 Net cash used in investing activities 38.2 3.2 Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of Sterling borrowings 158.2 9.1 158.2 Repayment of US Dollar borrowings 50.8 Repayment of syndicated facilities 21.8 140.0 Repayment of other facilities 2.0 Drawdown on syndicated facilities 101.2 140.0 Drawdown on other facilities 2.0 Finance lease principal payments 0.7 1.2 Amounts received from subsidiaries 161.1 6.3 Net cash used in from financing activities 79.5 61.1 2.9 6.3 Effect of exchange rate changes 0.8 2.1 Net decrease increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 48.0 36.2 0.3 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 1 January 104.8 68.6 0.3 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at 31 December 29 56.8 104.8 The notes on pages 63 to 105 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
62 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C 1 General information and accounting policies General information sell and value in use.
Estimates of fair value less costs to sell are The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries performed internally by experienced senior management together the Group operate gaming and betting services in supported by knowledge of similar transactions and advice Great Britain, Spain and Belgium and provide business services from external estate agents or, if applicable, offers received.
to gaming operators in a number of additional markets.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash flow projections The Company is a public limited company which is listed from financial budgets, discounted by selecting an appropriate on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and rate for each cash-generating unit.
Further details of the domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act assumptions and estimates are disclosed in note 12.
The address of its registered office is Statesman House, b Classification of casino licences and other gaming licences Stafferton Way, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 1AY.
as intangible assets with an indefinite life Summary of significant accounting policies As disclosed in note 1.11, casino licences and other gaming The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of licences have been classified as intangible assets with an indefinite these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
This assumption is based on managements belief that there policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are unless otherwise stated.
expected to generate net cash inflows and that each licence holds a value outside the property in which it resides.
As a consequence, 1.1 Basis of preparation each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the c Recoverability of deferred tax assets revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments probable future taxable profit will be available against which at fair value through profit or loss.
the temporary differences can be utilised.
The key area of judgement is therefore an assessment of whether it is probable 1.1.
1 Statement of compliance that there will be suitable taxable profits against which any The consolidated financial statements of The Rank Group Plc deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Further details of deferred have been prepared in accordance with International Financial tax assets recognised are disclosed in note 24.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable d Income taxes to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions, including jurisdictions from now discontinued operations.
2 Going concern are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities consolidated financial statements, the directors have considered for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether the issues impacting the Group during 2009 as detailed in the additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these directors report on pages 1 to 39 and have reviewed the matters is different from the amount recognised, such differences Groups projected compliance with its banking covenants will impact in the period such determination is made.
detailed in the finance review on pages 36 and 37.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating budgets, and e Provisions assuming that trading does not deteriorate considerably from Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy current levels, the directors believe that the Group will generate disclosed in note 1.9.
In calculating onerous property lease sufficient cash to meet its borrowing requirements for at least provisions, estimates are made of the discounted cash flows the next 12 months and comply with its banking covenants.
derived from the property and its associated operations.
Estimates have also been made in determining the amount and timing of 1.1.
3 Accounting estimates disposal provisions, including insurance and warranty claims.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Further details of provisions made are disclosed in note 26. requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process f Retirement benefits of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The resulting The present value of retirement benefits depends on a number of accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number actual results.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement of assumptions.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact or complexity, where assumptions and estimates are significant the carrying amount of retirement benefits.
Following the to the consolidated financial statements, are set out below.
transfer of the Groups defined benefit plan in 2008, any such assumptions are unlikely to have a material impact for the a Estimated impairment of intangible assets and property, Group going forward.
Further details of assumptions made plant and equipment in relation to the defined benefit plan, up until its transfer, The Group tests annually whether assets that have an indefinite together with the Groups remaining retirement benefit useful life, including goodwill and gaming licences, have obligation are disclosed in note 33. suffered any impairment.
The Group also reviews assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for events or changes g Share-based payments in circumstances that indicate the carrying amount of the asset The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with may not be recoverable.
Further details of the Groups accounting employees by reference to the fair value of equity instruments at policy in relation to impairment are disclosed in note 1.12. the date at which they are granted.
Estimating the fair value for The application of the policy requires the use of accounting share-based payment transactions requires determining the most estimates and judgements in determining the recoverable appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms amount of cash-generating units to which the intangible and conditions of the grant.
It also requires a determination of the assets and property, plant and equipment are associated.
The most appropriate inputs to the model selected.
Further details are recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to outlined in note 32.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 1 General information and accounting policies continued 1.1.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment a Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair standards adopted by the Group value measurement hierarchy, although this has not had a The Group has adopted the following standards, amendments significant impact on the Group.
and interpretations to existing standards as of 1 January 2009: IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment Vesting IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting.
It requires a conditions and cancellations management approach under which segment information is IFRS 7 Financial instruments amendments Disclosures presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting IFRS 8 Operating segments purposes to the chief operating decision maker.
Further details IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised of the policy are disclosed in note 1.4.
Although there is no IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised overall impact on operating profit, it has resulted in a reduction IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements in the number of reportable segments presented.
The previously amendments Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, reported gaming shared service segment has been allocated to jointly controlled entity or associate operating divisions and central costs on the same basis as that IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation and used for internal reporting purposes.
Costs that can be allocated IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Puttable on a reasonable basis are now included in the operating financial instruments and obligations arising on divisions.
Unallocated costs are combined into central costs.
liquidation amendments b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives and standards that are not yet effective IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and The following standards, amendments and interpretations to measurement amendments existing standards have been published and are mandatory IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes for accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009 or later IFRIC 14 The limit on a defined benefit pension asset, periods, but they have not been early adopted by the Group: minimum funding requirements and their interaction IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners effective IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation 1 July 2009 Improvements to IFRSs issued May 2008 IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers effective 31 October 2009 Where the adoption of the standard, amendment or interpretation IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity is deemed to have an impact on the financial statements or instruments effective 1 July 2010 performance of the Group, its impact is described below: IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment effective IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised 1 January 2010 The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of IFRS 3 Business combinations revised effective income and expense that is, non-owner changes in equity 1 July 2009 in the statement of changes in equity.
All non-owner changes IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective 1 January 2013 in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements Entities can choose whether to present one performance revised effective 1 July 2009 statement the statement of comprehensive income or Improvements to IFRS issued April 2009 effective two statements the income statement and statement of 1 January 2010 comprehensive income.
The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a statement of It is not anticipated that the adoption of the above standards, comprehensive income.
Comparative information has been amendments and interpretations of existing standards will re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the revised have a material impact on the Group or Company financial standard.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts statements in the period of initial application.
presentational aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
c Change to revenue reporting IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised In previous years, the Group has reported revenue as gaming The revised standard requires borrowing costs relating to win net of VAT where applicable.
This is consistent with internal qualifying assets for which the commencement date for information reviewed by the chief operating decision maker.
capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009 to be capitalised.
However, an alternative definition of revenue has become more The Group previously recognised all borrowing costs as an widely reported among betting and gaming companies.
In accordance with the transition revised definition makes a further deduction for the fair value provisions of the standard, comparative figures have not been of free bets, promotions and customer bonuses.
The change in accounting policy had no impact on previously reported the fair value of these items as an expense earnings per share.
The Group had no qualifying assets in 2009. in the income statement.
To bring the Group in line with this revised definition of revenue, the Group has restated its IFRS 2 Share-based payment amendment 2008 comparatives.
The Group continues to report internal The amendment deals with vesting conditions and information based on the previous definition of revenue, and cancellations.
It clarifies that vesting conditions are service therefore in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments, has conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features presented a reconciliation between revenue reported internally of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
The and the revised basis disclosed in the income statement.
amendment also requires that all cancellations, whether by the The restatement has no impact on Group operating profit.
entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The amendment does not have a material impact on the Group or Company financial statements.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments Disclosures amendments The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value 64 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 1 General information and accounting policies continued The following table provides a reconciliation of the impact of the change in definition on the income statement.
2009 2008 restated Previous Revised Previous Revised policy Adjustment policy policy Adjustment policy m m m m m m Revenue 540.0 19.5 520.5 522.2 16.8 505.4 Cost of sales 291.8 13.4 278.4 271.0 11.2 259.8 Gross profit 248.2 6.1 242.1 251.2 5.6 245.6 Other operating costs 187.4 6.1 181.3 260.3 5.6 254.7 Group operating profit loss 60.8 60.8 9.1 9.1 1.2 Consolidation 1.4 Segment reporting Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with to govern the financial and operating policies, generally the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights for allocating resources and assessing performance of the that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered operating segments, has been identified as the executive when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
management team the composition of which is disclosed All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which on page 41 that makes strategic and operational decisions.
control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated 1.5 Foreign currency translation from the date that control ceases.
a Functional and presentation currency The purchase method of accounting is used to account for Items included in the financial statements of each of the the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, economic environment in which the entity operates the equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the presented in UK Sterling, which is the Companys functional acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and and the Groups presentational currency.
contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, b Transactions and balances irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net the settlement of such transactions and from the translation assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities directly in the income statement.
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains statement in finance costs, except when deferred in equity on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
where hedging criteria are met.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction c Group companies provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The results and financial position of all the Group companies Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries have been none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the economy that have a functional currency different from policies adopted by the Group.
the presentation currency are translated into the presentation The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
currency as follows: 1.3 Revenue recognition i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and services, are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
The closing Euro rate against UK Sterling was a Gaming win 1.13 2008: 1.04 and the closing US Dollar rate against Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction UK Sterling was 1.61 2008: 1.45 : of gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes and VAT ii income and expenses for each income statement are where applicable before deduction of gross profits tax.
translated at average exchange rates unless this average is Revenue for Rank Interactive, including sports betting and not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect interactive games, represents gross win.
The fair value of free of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which bets, promotions and customer bonuses are also deducted from case income and expenses are translated at the rates all revenue streams.
prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
The average Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted for and meets the definition of a gain under IAS 39 Financial Euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.12 2008: 1.25 and the average US Dollar rate against UK Sterling in the year instruments: Recognition and measurement.
was 1.57 2008: 1.84 : and b Food and beverage Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as point of sale.
c Finance income On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and the effective interest method.
of borrowings and other currency instruments designated THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 1 General information and accounting policies continued as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in differences are recognised in the income statement, net of hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes hedging, as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and accounting and are accounted for at fair value through finance translated at the closing rate.
costs in the income statement.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for 1.6 Financial assets hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a categories: loans and receivables and available-for-sale.
The non-current asset or liability when the maturity of the hedged classification depends on the purpose for which the financial item is greater than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Trading derivatives are classified as a a Loans and receivables current asset or liability.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with a Fair value hedge fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated active market.
They are included in current assets, except for and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
are classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
The Group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging Impairment testing of trade receivables is described in note 1.17. fixed interest risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to b Available-for-sale financial assets both the effective and ineffective portion of interest rate swaps Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised in the income either designated in this category or not classified in any of the statement within finance costs.
Changes in the fair value of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are management intends to dispose of the investment within recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
12 months of the balance sheet date.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge Securities are initially recognised at fair value plus accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedge transaction costs.
Subsequent changes in the fair value are item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised recognised in equity.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset b Cash flow hedge or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its in equity unless the hedge is of a recognised liability, in which cost is an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any case the gain or loss is recognised within finance costs within such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the income statement.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the portion is recognised immediately in the income statement acquisition costs and the current fair value, less any impairment within finance costs.
loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a statement is removed from equity and recognised in the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any income statement.
cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged in equity are included in the income statement.
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative 1.7 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date to the income statement within operating costs.
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently c Net investment hedge remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is for similarly to cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Any designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss as either: relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately a hedges of the fair value of recognised liabilities in the income statement within finance costs.
Gains and losses fair value hedge : accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed.
b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised liability or a highly probable forecast transaction 1.8 Leases cash flow hedge : or Leases are tested to determine whether the lease is a finance c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation or operating lease and treated accordingly.
Property leases net investment hedge.
comprising a lease of land and a lease of buildings within a single contract are split into its two component parts before testing.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged a Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified 66 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 1 General information and accounting policies continued as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lease An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater and finance charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying period.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance amount.
These are included in the income statement.
charges, are included in borrowings.
The interest element of Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the as incurred.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying of the asset or the lease term.
assets, where material, as part of the cost of that asset for which the commencement date was on or after 1 January 2009.
Prior b Operating leases to this date, the Group recognised all borrowing costs as an Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of expense immediately.
ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease 1.11 Intangible assets incentives or premiums, are charged to the income statement a Goodwill on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets 1.9 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events if it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
amortised cost as at 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures completed after 1 January 2004 less accumulated impairment expected to be required to settle the obligation, taking into losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the account the risks specific to the obligation, and discounted at carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, except a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments where goodwill has been previously written off directly to of the time value of money.
The increase in the provision due reserves under previous GAAP.
to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment a Onerous contracts testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group The Group is party to a number of leasehold property of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from 1997 has been written off directly to reserves.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated b Computer software and other development costs that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the discounted cash flows derived from the property and its basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
basis over their estimated useful lives three to 10 years.
b Provision on disposal Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Following the disposal of an operation, provision is made for the estimated future costs and potential warranty claims Costs that are directly associated with the production and directly attributable to the disposal.
development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate 1.10 Property, plant and equipment economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost recognised as intangible assets for both externally purchased less depreciation and any impairment.
Historical cost includes and internally developed software.
Direct costs include specific expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition employee costs for software development.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount are amortised over their estimated useful lives, estimated at or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is between three to four years.
probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured c Casino and other gaming licences reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming income statement during the financial period in which they licences.
The amount capitalised is the difference between the are incurred.
price paid for a property or business and the associated licence, Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is and the fair value of a similar property or business without a calculated using the straight line method to allocate their cost licence.
Management believes that licences have indefinite lives less residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the licences are expected to generate net cash inflows and each freehold and leasehold property 50 years or their licence holds a value outside the property in which it resides.
useful life if less refurbishment of property five to 20 years Each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
Any costs in renewing licences annually are expensed fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment and others three to 20 years as incurred.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 1 General information and accounting policies continued d Other purchased intangible assets benefit obligation was determined by discounting the estimated If acquired, the Group capitalises the costs of other intangible future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate assets such as brands, trademarks and customer relationships.
bonds that were denominated in the currency in which the Costs incurred internally to generate these intangible assets are benefits were paid, and that had terms to maturity approximating expensed as incurred.
For business combinations occurring after to the terms of the related pension liability.
1 January 2004, purchased intangible assets are capitalised on The Group recognised actuarial gains and losses the balance sheet at fair value on acquisition.
The valuation immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
of purchased intangible assets and determining the useful Past-service costs were recognised immediately in operating economic life involves management making assumptions profit, unless the changes to the pension plan were conditional and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of to change.
Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs amortised over their useful economic lives, estimated at were amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The net return or cost arising on the defined benefit pension plan was recognised in net finance costs.
1.12 Impairment of intangible assets and property, For defined contribution plans, the Group pays plant and equipment contributions to publicly or privately administered pension Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to insurance plans on a contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets has no further payment obligations once the contributions have that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the expense when they are due.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which relating to three former executives of the Group.
The amount an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date, costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing together with adjustment for unrecognised actuarial gains impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which or losses.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
The expected cash flows generated by the assets are The net interest cost arising on the commitment is recognised discounted using appropriate discount rates that reflect the time in net finance costs.
value of money and risks associated with the groups of assets.
If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount b Share-based compensation of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable The Group operates various equity-settled share-based amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an exceptional compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services, expense in the income statement immediately.
received in exchange for the grant of the options, is recognised Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth the carrying amount that would have been determined had no targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating assumptions about the number of options that are expected to unit in prior years.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as exceptional of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises income in the income statement immediately.
the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
1.13 Employee benefit costs The proceeds received net of any directly attributable a Pension obligations transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value The Group operated a defined contribution plan in 2009. and share premium when the options are exercised.
Previously the Group operated both defined benefit and defined contribution plans, until the transfer of the assets and liabilities c Termination benefits of the defined benefit plan in 2008.
Further details of the Termination benefits are payable when employment is transfer are given in note 33. terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution of current employees according to a detailed formal plan: or plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits to present value.
relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
d Bonus plans The amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension plan was the fair value of plan assets less The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on a formula that takes into consideration the profit the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial attributable to the Companys shareholders after certain adjustments.
The Group recognises a provision where gains or losses and past-service costs.
The defined benefit asset was calculated annually by independent actuaries using the contractually obliged or where a past practice has created projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined a constructive obligation.
68 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 1 General information and accounting policies continued 1.14 Inventories 1.19 Borrowings Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable Borrowings are recognised at cost, which is deemed to be value.
Cost of inventory is determined on a first-in first-out basis.
materially the same as the fair value, net of transaction costs  incurred.
Any difference between proceeds and redemption resale.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the value is recognised in the income statement using the effective ordinary course of business, less the cost of completion and interest method.
When necessary, provision is made for Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
Group has the unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months at the balance sheet date.
1.15 Taxation including deferred tax The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible Current tax is applied to taxable profits at the rates ruling in the bond was determined on the date of issue.
This amount was relevant country.
recorded as a liability and was held on an amortised cost basis Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, until the redemption or maturity of the bonds.
The remaining on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets proceeds were allocated to the conversion option and were and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial recognised in shareholders funds.
This resulted in a higher statements.
However, if deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a interest cost over the life of the bond as an equal and opposite business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects amount to the equity component was amortised through the neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted income statement as a financing cost.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that 1.20 Share capital have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax Where any Group company purchases the Companys asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
equity share capital treasury shares as defined by IAS 32, Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is the consideration paid, including any directly attributable probable that future taxable profit will be available against incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity which the temporary differences can be utilised.
attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets against sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these attributable incremental transaction costs and the related on a net basis.
income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Companys equity holders.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled 1.21 Discontinued operations and non-current assets by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference held for sale will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued 1.16 Cash and cash equivalents operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Operations held for at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments sale are held at the lower of their carrying amount on the dates with original maturities of three months or less, and bank they are classified as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held current liabilities on the balance sheet.
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition 1.17 Trade receivables is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective present condition.
Management must be committed to the interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
1.22 Dividends Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid at the that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial period end are not recognised in the financial statements until reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more they have been approved by shareholders at the annual general than 30 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present 1.23 Exceptional items value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is by their size or nature, are separately disclosed in order to give reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the a full understanding of the Groups financial performance and amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement aid comparability of the Groups result between periods.
would include, to the extent they are material, gains or losses When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off on the disposal of assets, impairments of the carrying value against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent of assets and associated onerous lease provisions, costs of club recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against closures, onerous lease provisions on vacant properties, disposal operating costs in the income statement.
of businesses, changes in disposal provisions and VAT refunds net of gross profits tax and associated costs relating to 1.18 Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and previous periods.
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C C 2 Segmental reporting a Primary reporting format business segments MeccaBingo 2009 2008 m m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 233.0 227.6 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 12.3 10.6 Segment revenue 220.7 217.0 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 32.3 37.9 Exceptional operating profit loss 4.3 40.6 Segment result 36.6 78.5 Finance costs Finance income Other financial gains losses Profit loss before taxation Taxation Profit loss for the year from continuing operations Assets and liabilities Intangible assets: Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Intangible assets with nite useful lives 1.2 1.3 Property, plant and equipment 83.1 80.0 Other segment assets 13.2 20.1 Segment assets 97.5 101.4 Unallocated assets Total assets Segment liabilities 56.8 65.7 Unallocated liabilities Total liabilities Net assets liabilities Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 13.0 10.8 Depreciation and amortisation 10.1 10.2 Impairment losses 1.9 Onerous lease provision impact of change in discount rate 1.0 2.8 Onerous lease provision charge 4.9 Onerous lease provision release 3.5 Share-based payment charge credit 0.1 .
At 31 December 2009, the Groups continuing operations are organised into four main business segments: Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa, Grosvenor Casinos and Rank Interactive.
The activities of the segments are described on page 2 of the business review.
Costs that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis are combined within Central costs.
There are immaterial sales between the business segments.
Segment assets include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, deferred consideration, provisions and retirement benefits.
Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise taxation, borrowings, derivative financial instruments and cash and cash equivalents.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives include 53.8m of goodwill relating to Rank Interactive.
Capital expenditure comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
The home country of the Company is the UK.
The areas of operation are principally the operation of bingo clubs, casinos and online gaming and bookmaking services.
i Segment revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer 2008 2009 restated m m UK 467.1 453.7 Europe 53.4 51.7 Total revenue 520.5 505.4 ii Segment assets by geographical area based on location of assets 2009 2008 m m UK 321.4 317.6 Europe 75.9 85.2 Segment assets 397.3 402.8 Unallocated assets 88.0 170.1 Total assets 485.3 572.9 iii Segment capital expenditure by geographical area based on location of assets 2009 2008 m m UK 32.3 25.9 Europe 2.0 2.3 Total capital expenditure 34.3 28.2 With the exception of the UK and Spain, no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
d Implementation of IFRS 8 Operating segments As detailed in note 1, the analysis of 2008 operating profit by segment has been reallocated following the implementation of IFRS 8 Operating segments.
Although there is no overall impact on operating profit, the 2008 comparatives have been reallocated to be consistent with the internal information reviewed by the executive management team, with costs from the previously reported gaming shared service segment being allocated to operating divisions wherever possible.
A reconciliation from the segment result before exceptional items reported in 2008 to the reallocated 2008 comparatives, included above in the primary segmental reporting, is set out below.
Gaming Mecca TopRank Grosvenor Rank shared Central Bingo Espaa Casinos Interactive services costs Total m m m m m m m 2008 segment result before exceptional items as reported 41.8 6.9 29.5 11.4 20.8 8.5 60.3 Reallocate Gaming shared services 3.9 3.6 3.8 20.8 9.5 2008 segment result before exceptional items as reallocated 37.9 6.9 25.9 7.6 18.0 60.3 72 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 2 Segmental reporting continued e Total cost analysis by segment To increase transparency, the Group has decided to provide additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment.
A reconciliation of total costs, before exceptional items, by type and segment is as follows: 2009 Mecca TopRank Grosvenor Rank Central Bingo Espaa Casinos Interactive costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 56.7 15.4 85.9 8.6 11.2 177.8 Taxes and duties 36.7 1.6 45.9 0.3 0.7 85.2 Direct costs 23.4 3.6 8.8 13.9 49.7 Property costs 26.4 2.0 16.9 0.7 0.9 46.9 Marketing 10.2 0.8 6.1 8.8 25.9 Depreciation and amortisation 10.1 2.8 8.3 3.9 0.8 25.9 Other 24.9 4.4 16.0 1.1 4.7 51.1 Total costs before exceptional items 188.4 30.6 187.9 37.3 18.3 462.5 Cost of sales 278.4 Operating costs 184.1 Total costs before exceptional items 462.5 2008 Mecca TopRank Grosvenor Rank Central Bingo Espaa Casinos Interactive costs Total m m m m m m Employment and related costs 55.2 13.9 78.9 8.1 12.1 168.2 Taxes and duties 28.2 1.5 43.6 0.3 1.1 74.7 Direct costs 22.1 3.5 7.3 15.3 48.2 Property costs 26.9 1.9 16.7 0.7 0.9 47.1 Marketing 12.7 0.9 6.2 9.8 29.6 Depreciation and amortisation 10.2 2.7 8.7 3.8 0.9 26.3 Other 23.8 4.5 18.3 1.4 3.0 51.0 Total costs before exceptional items 179.1 28.9 179.7 39.4 18.0 445.1 Cost of sales 259.8 Operating costs 185.3 Total costs before exceptional items 445.1 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 3 Profit for the year analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit loss for the year before financing and taxation from continuing operations: 2009 2008 Note m m Employee benets expense 31 167.2 157.4 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 20.5 19.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 owned assets including 19.0m 2008: 19.3m within cost of sales 21.0 21.6 under finance leases included within cost of sales 0.7 0.8 Amortisation of intangibles including 0.6m 2008: 0.4m within cost of sales 10 4.2 3.9 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 40.4 37.1 sub-lease income 6.0 6.0 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Exceptional items 4 2.8 69.4 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.6 In the year, the Groups auditors,  LLP, including its network firms, earned the following fees: 2009 2008 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.3 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.3 services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.2 tax services 0.7 0.4 other services 0.1 1.1 1.3 35,000 2008: 43,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in the area of advice being taken and the desirability of being efficient for example, where legacy issues are involved.
74 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 4 Exceptional items 2009 2008 Note m m Exceptional items relating to continuing operations Loss on transfer of defined benefit pension asset 99.2 VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs 1.9 42.8 Impairment charge 12 1.5 14.5 Net release charge to provision for onerous leases 1.0 1.7 Net profit on sale of property less associated closure costs 1.4 4.1 Other 0.9 Exceptional items before financing and taxation relating to continuing operations 2.8 69.4 Finance income 5.1 Taxation 6 0.2 18.9 Exceptional items relating to continuing operations 3.0 45.4 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Release from disposal provisions 5.0 15.0 Charge to disposal provisions 4.2 Taxation 6 0.2 Exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 0.6 15.0 Total exceptional items 3.6 30.4 The Groups denition of exceptional items is disclosed in note 1.23.
2009 exceptional items Continuing operations During 2009, the Group disposed of one previously closed Mecca Bingo property at Welling.
The resulting profit on disposal of the property, net of costs, was 1.4m.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 1.5m against a non-operating casino licence at Liverpool.
The Group continues to explore opportunities for the licence, however the directors consider that, following a prolonged period of non-operation and a re-evaluation of the planned use for the licence, an impairment of the licence is appropriate.
The increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of the onerous property lease provision resulted in a 1.0m release to the income statement.
An exceptional profit of 1.9m also arose following the partial refund of bingo gross profits tax accrued in 2008 and previously paid during 2009 in relation to the 59.1m VAT refund in 2008.
Discontinued operations A provision of 5.0m for an environmental warranty given at the time of the sale of Deluxe Film was released as no subsequent claim was received and the warranty period has now expired.
In addition, a charge of 4.2m was made in relation to the settlement, and associated costs, of legal proceedings in the US brought by Paramount Home Entertainment.
At the end of 2008, the Group provided for the legal costs associated with defending the claim but no provision was made for the damages claimed, which were a maximum of US$29m.
On 21 August 2009, the Group agreed to pay $5.8m to Paramount Home Entertainment in full and final settlement of the claim, which together with the associated costs, resulted in the additional charge of 4.2m.
2008 exceptional items Continuing operations On 27 June 2008, the Group completed the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the Rank Pension Plan the Plan, a defined benefit scheme, to Rothesay Life an FSA regulated insurance company and wholly owned subsidiary of Goldman Sachs.
The transfer secured the accrued benefits for the members of the Plan and removed all financial risks and liabilities in relation to the Plan from the Group.
Further details of the exceptional loss arising on the transfer are disclosed in the table below: 2008 m Proceeds 29.0 Costs associated with transfer 1.0 Net proceeds from transfer of defined benefit pension asset 28.0 Curtailment gain on closure of scheme to future contributions 10.5 Carrying value of defined benefit pension asset at transfer 137.7 Exceptional loss before taxation 99.2 Taxation 27.8 Total exceptional loss arising on transfer 71.4 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 4 Exceptional items continued On 10 November 2008, the Group received 59.1m in overpaid VAT from HMRC, following the VAT and Duties Tribunals ruling in May 2008 that the application of VAT to some games of interval bingo contravened the European Unions principle of fiscal neutrality.
The exceptional gain of 42.8m represented the element of the VAT repayment relating to the period 2003 to 2007 net of associated gross profits tax and costs.
HMRC appealed the ruling of the Tribunal at a High Court hearing in March 2009 but the judgement again found in favour of the Group.
HMRC lodged an appeal to the Court of Appeal on 6 July 2009 and is due to be heard in April 2010.
In the event of an adverse ruling, the Group would be required to repay the 59.1m plus amounts not paid over for the period from July 2008 to 26 April 2009.
A contingent liability has been disclosed in note 37.
Exceptional finance income of 5.1m relating to the period up until the end of 2007 was also recognised in relation to the refund.
Based on legal advice received by the Group, the directors are satisfied the continued recognition of this gain is appropriate.
Further details of the exceptional gain on the VAT refund in 2008 are disclosed in the table below: 2008 m Cash repayment received 59.1 Increase in gross profits tax payable 7.8 Costs, including contingent fees 4.6 Irrecoverable input VAT 1.0 Less element attributable to 2008 2.9 Exceptional gain before financing and taxation 42.8 Finance income 5.1 Taxation 13.7 Total exceptional gain on VAT refund 34.2 At 31 December 2008, the Group recognised additional impairments of 14.5m on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
Further details are provided in note 12.
The net provision for onerous leases included an additional onerous lease charge of 7.9m and a 4.3m charge arising from the reduction in discount rate, net of a 10.5m onerous lease reversal.
During 2008, the Group closed one Mecca Bingo club at Swindon and one Grosvenor Casino in Leeds.
The resulting profit on disposal of the Swindon property, together with the profit on two previously closed properties, net of associated closure and disposal costs, was 4.1m.
Other comprised abortive software development costs incurred by Rank Interactive.
Discontinued operations The 15.0m gain from release of disposal provisions in 2008 consisted of two items: On 31 December 2008, the Group settled its lease obligation in relation to its remaining plant in the US retained following the sale and closure of its Deluxe operations.
The settlement represented a significant discount to the carrying value of the provision and accordingly a release of 10.0m from the disposal provision was made.
In addition, a provision of 5.0m for warranties given at the time of the sale of Hard Rock was released as no subsequent claims were received and the warranty period had expired.
76 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 5 Financing 2009 2008 m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: Interest payable on bank borrowings current and non-current 1.1 1.7 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 1.0 1.6 Interest payable on other loans 6.1 18.6 Interest payable on finance leases 0.9 1.0 Unwinding of discount in onerous leases provisions 1.3 1.6 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 1.2 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 0.3 3.6 Total finance costs 10.9 29.3 Finance income: Interest income on short-term bank deposits 0.9 4.7 Net return on defined benefit pension asset 3.6 Total finance income 0.9 8.3 Other financial gains losses 1.2 1.1 Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 8.8 22.1 Exceptional finance income 5.1 Total net financing cost for continuing operations 8.8 17.0 Further details of the exceptional finance income in 2008 are disclosed in note 4.
A reconciliation of total net financing costs to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: 2009 2008 m m Total net financing cost for continuing operations before exceptional items 8.8 22.1 Adjust for: Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 1.2 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 0.3 3.6 Net return on defined benefit pension asset 3.6 Other financial gains losses including foreign exchange 1.2 1.1 Adjusted net interest payable 9.5 19.8 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 6 Taxation 2009 2008 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 3.1 3.1 4.0 4.0 Current income tax overseas 1.7 1.7 2.4 2.4 Current income tax credit charge 1.4 1.4 6.4 6.4 Current income tax on exceptional items 0.8 1.2 0.4 20.1 20.1 Amounts over provided in previous year 1.3 1.3 2.4 2.4 Amounts over provided in previous year on exceptional items 0.6 0.6 Total current income tax credit charge 2.5 1.2 3.7 24.1 24.1 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 18.7 18.7 6.0 6.0 Deferred tax overseas 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax on exceptional items 0.4 1.4 1.0 39.0 39.0 Amounts over under provided in previous year 2.0 2.0 2.7 2.7 Total deferred tax charge credit note 24 16.6 1.4 18.0 30.3 30.3 Tax charge credit in the income statement 14.1 0.2 14.3 6.2 6.2 The tax on the Groups profit before tax on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28.0% 2008: 28.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2009 2008 m m Profit loss before tax on continuing operations 52.0 26.1 Tax charge credit calculated at 28.0% on profit loss before tax on continuing operations 2008: 28.5% 14.6 7.4 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 0.3 Difference in overseas tax rates 1.9 1.6 Difference in deferred tax rates 0.6 Adjustments relating to prior years 3.9 0.3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.3 1.1 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.2 0.5 Tax charge credit in the income statement on continuing operations 14.1 6.2 Current income tax on exceptional items Current income tax on exceptional items in 2009 included a 0.5m tax charge on the refund of bingo gross profits tax and a 0.3m charge on the release of onerous lease provisions.
Current income tax on exceptional items in 2008 included a tax charge of 13.7m on the VAT refund received by the Group, a 7.8m tax charge on the transfer of the Groups pension scheme, a 0.3m tax credit relating to onerous leases and a 1.1m tax credit on the liquidation of an overseas subsidiary.
Deferred tax on exceptional items Deferred tax on exceptional items in 2009 was a 0.4m credit on the impairment of a casino licence.
Deferred tax on exceptional items in 2008 included a tax credit of 35.6m on the transfer of the Groups pension scheme and a 3.4m tax credit on the impairment of Group assets.
Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income 2009 2008 m m Current income tax charge credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.9 17.3 Deferred tax charge on exchange movements offset in reserves 1.9 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benefits 0.1 2.2 Total tax charge credit on items within other comprehensive income 3.7 19.5 7 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The loss for the financial year for the Company was 28.0m 2008: loss of 351.6m.
The loss in 2008 included an impairment of 317.3m in respect of its investment in subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in note 13.
78 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 8 Dividends There were no dividends paid in either year.
A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.35p per share, amounting to a total dividend of 5.3m, is to be proposed at the annual general meeting on 22 April 2010.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
9 Earnings loss per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as treasury shares, as defined by IAS 32 note 27.
2009 2008 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 34.9m 3.0m 37.9m 25.5m 45.4 m 19.9 m Discontinued operations 0.6m 0.6m 15.0m 15.0m Total 34.9m 3.6m 38.5m 25.5m 30.4 m 4.9 m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m 389.5m Basic earnings loss per share Continuing operations 9.0p 0.7p 9.7p 6.5p 11.6 p 5.1 p Discontinued operations 0.2p 0.2p 3.8p 3.8p Total 9.0p 0.9p 9.9p 6.5p 7.8 p 1.3 p b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Following the redemption of the convertible debt in 2009, share options are the only remaining category of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
The convertible debt was not dilutive in 2008.
There is no difference in the profit loss or the weighted average number of shares used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share.
Accordingly, there is no difference between diluted earnings per share and basic earnings per share disclosed above in either year.
c Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, the net return on the defined benefit pension asset, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions, amortisation of the equity component of the convertible bond and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 2009 2008 m m Profit loss attributable to equity shareholders 38.5 4.9 Adjust for: Discontinued operations net of taxation 0.6 15.0 Exceptional items after tax on continuing operations 3.0 45.4 Other financial gains losses 1.2 1.1 Net return on defined benefit pension asset 3.6 Amortisation of equity component of convertible bond 0.3 3.6 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 1.2 Taxation on adjusted items 0.3 0.6 Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders m 34.5 28.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue m 389.5m 389.5m Adjusted earnings per share p 8.9p 7.3p THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 10 Intangible assets Casino Rank andother Interactive gaming goodwill licences Other Total Group Note m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 53.8 115.9 27.4 197.1 Exchange adjustments 12.0 12.0 Additions 5.4 5.4 At 31 December 2008 53.8 127.9 32.8 214.5 Exchange adjustments 3.7 0.1 3.8 Acquisition of business 30 0.1 0.1 Additions 0.1 3.5 3.6 At 31 December 2009 53.8 124.4 36.2 214.4 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2008 18.1 18.1 Charge for the year 3.9 3.9 Impairment losses 12 7.9 1.4 9.3 At 31 December 2008 7.9 23.4 31.3 Exchange adjustments 0.6 0.6 Charge for the year 4.2 4.2 Impairment losses 12 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2009 8.8 27.6 36.4 Net book value at 31 December 2008 53.8 120.0 9.4 183.2 Net book value at 31 December 2009 53.8 115.6 8.6 178.0 Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 1.3m 2008: 1.3m.
indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 12.
80 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, ttings, Landand plantand buildings machinery Total Group Note m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 138.5 297.3 435.8 Exchange adjustments 3.2 12.5 15.7 Additions 2.4 18.1 20.5 Disposals 1.4 5.8 7.2 At 31 December 2008 142.7 322.1 464.8 Exchange adjustments 1.0 4.1 5.1 Acquisition of business 30 0.7 0.7 Reclassification 9.7 9.7 Additions 2.3 29.8 32.1 Disposals 0.2 1.1 1.3 At 31 December 2009 134.1 357.1 491.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2008 64.3 192.3 256.6 Exchange adjustments 0.3 6.5 6.8 Charge for the year 3.2 19.2 22.4 Impairment losses 12 1.8 3.4 5.2 Disposals 1.1 4.7 5.8 At 31 December 2008 68.5 216.7 285.2 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.2 2.3 Charge for the year 3.1 18.6 21.7 Reclassification 0.9 0.9 Disposals 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2009 70.6 233.1 303.7 Net book value at 31 December 2008 74.2 105.4 179.6 Net book value at 31 December 2009 63.5 124.0 187.5 A review of property, plant and equipment in the year has resulted in a reallocation of 9.7m of assets at cost, together with associated accumulated depreciation of 0.9m, from land and buildings to fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery.
Assets capitalised under finance leases and included in land and buildings and xtures, ttings, plant and machinery: 2009 2008 m m Cost 19.5 19.8 Accumulated depreciation 11.7 11.2 Net book value 7.8 8.6 The book amounts for xtures, ttings, plant and machinery include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of nil 2008: 0.1m.
The book amounts for land and buildings include buildings held under finance leases with a net book value of 7.8m 2008: 8.5m.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: 2009 2008 m m Freeholds 25.8 26.8 Long leases over 50 years unexpired 3.3 3.5 Short leases 34.4 43.9 Net book value 63.5 74.2 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 12 Impairment review The discount rate used for all impairment reviews reects ii Casino licences managements estimate of the Groups pre-tax weighted average The carrying value of casino licences as at 31 December 2009 cost of capital.
Management believes that the Groups weighted was 94.3m 2008: 97.1m.
average cost of capital is an appropriate measure for each cashThe inherent value of casino licences is deemed to be an generating unit CGU as they operate in gaming markets with intrinsic part of the value of the operation of casinos as a whole similar risks as set out below.
The pre-tax discount rate applied and is therefore not split out from each Grosvenor casino in an to all cash ow projections is 12.2% 2008: 14.1%.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The a  recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
In less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is classified as an intangible determined using cash flow projections from the Groups asset with an indefinite life.
In addition, the Group classifies budget for 2010, the Groups strategic plan for the following casino licences and Spanish bingo licences as intangible assets two years and a growth rate of 2% thereafter.
Both the Groups with an indefinite life.
budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board i Goodwill of directors.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are The Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 53.8m 2008: performed internally by experienced senior management 53.8m arising from the acquisition of Rank Interactive.
supported by knowledge of similar transactions or, where For impairment testing, the whole of Rank Interactive is applicable, offers received.
The recoverable amount has been Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in determined based on a value in use calculation using cash ow a CGU unless a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
projections from the Groups budget for 2010, the Groups Once an asset has been written down to its fair value less costs strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of to sell then any remaining impairment is allocated equally 2% thereafter.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have amongst all other assets.
Casino licences are generally not been approved by the board of directors.
impaired as they have an indefinite life and a fair market value The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are in excess of their carrying value.
settled stakes, gross win margins and the discount rate.
Settled The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are stakes represent monies placed by customers for betting and customer visits, spend per visit, casino duty, competition and interactive games and are estimated taking into account the the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits product mix, major sporting events and industry developments.
by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends.
Gross win margins are based on values achieved in the past and Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
The winnings spent per visit on gaming tables, machines and food calculation also assumes that revenue from UK-domiciled and beverages.
This has also been determined by historic trends.
customers is not subject to UK duty or VAT.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% As a result of the impairment testing, the directors do not depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The believe that the carrying value of the goodwill was impaired as the bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels value in use significantly exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
without indexation, details of which are provided on page 39.
However, there are possible changes which could adversely impact As a result of the impairment review, the directors do not the key assumptions and cause the carrying value of the goodwill believe the carrying value of the casino licences, with the to exceed its recoverable amount.
These include: exception of a non-operating licence at Liverpool, to be impaired.
An impairment charge of 1.5m 2008: nil has been recognised Possiblechange  in respect of the non-operating licence in Liverpool.
Although Increased or improved opportunities for the licence continue to be investigated, the competition Settled stakes, gross win margin directors consider that, following the prolonged non-operation of Poor or decreased the licence, an impairment of 1.5m to the licence is appropriate.
marketing Settled stakes However, there are possible changes in key assumptions that Failure to respond to could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed technological advances Settled stakes their recoverable amount.
These are: Deterioration in Possiblechange  economic environment Settled stakes Increased or improved Changes in regulation Settled stakes, gross win margin competition Customer visits Changes in taxation Gaming duty Poor or decreased Prolonged period of promotional activity Customer visits adverse sporting results Gross win margin Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits Changes in settled stakes and gross win margin impact gross win Deterioration in and consequently the cash flow projections used to determine economic conditions Customer visits, spend per visit the recoverable amount.
Any change resulting in a decrease of Changes in regulation Customer visits, spend per visit in excess of 45% in projected gaming win would cause the Changes in taxation Casino duty recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the CGU.
The directors do not believe that there are any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in a decrease in excess of 45% in projected gaming win, and therefore cause a material impairment of the goodwill.
82 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 12 Impairment review continued With the exception of a prolonged non-operation of a licence, b Impairment review of property, plant and equipment the directors do not believe that there are any reasonably Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are possible changes to the key assumptions that would result in grouped into CGUs which are defined as individual clubs for a material impairment of a UK casino licence.
In respect of the Mecca Bingo, Top Rank Espaa and Grosvenor Casinos and the two casino licences in Belgium, the recoverable amount equates whole operation for Rank Interactive.
to the carrying amount, and therefore any negative changes in The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment the assumptions used would separately lead to an impairment.
reviews for Rank Interactive, Casinos and Bingo are the same The original assumptions used in the calculation were: as outlined above for intangible assets.
The recoverable amount of each CGU, including the licence Originalassumption if applicable, has been determined based on the higher of fair Gaming win 16.6% value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has Casino duty Current rates in Belgium been determined using cash ow projections from the Groups of between 20.0% and 50.0% budget for 2010, the Groups strategic plan for the following Growth rate 2.0% two years and a growth rate of 2% thereafter except for Top Rank Espaa where a growth rate of 3% has been used.
Both Discount rate 12.2% the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to Customer visits and spend per visit are key components of sell are performed internally by an experienced surveyor gaming win.
supported by external estate agent advice or, where applicable, iii Spanish bingo licences offers received.
The carrying value of Spanish bingo licences as at 31 December Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a 2009 was 21.3m 2008: 22.9m.
CGU unless a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
The inherent value of each Spanish bingo licence is deemed Once an asset has been written down to its fair value less costs to be an intrinsic part of the value of a club as a whole and is not to sell then any remaining impairment is allocated equally therefore split out from the assets of each individual bingo club in amongst all other assets.
Each individual bingo club has been treated c Impairment recognised during the year as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The Impairments of intangible assets and property, plant and recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use equipment are recognised as an exceptional item in operating calculation using cash flow projections from the Groups budget costs in the income statement.
The impairments recognised for 2010, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years during the year were as follows: and a growth rate of 3% thereafter which reflects the long-term opportunity in Spain.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan 2009 have been approved by the board of directors.
Grosvenor Casinos The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are As outlined above, an impairment charge of 1.5m has been customer visits, spend per visit and the discount rate.
Customer recognised in relation to a non-operating casino licence at visits are the number of discrete visits to the bingo club and Liverpool.
The licence has been subject to a prolonged period of have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the inactivity, and although the Group continues to investigate uses average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member for the licence, the directors believe it is appropriate to recognise on bingo games, machines and food and beverages.
This has an impairment of 1.5m against the carrying value of 2.0m.
been determined by recent trends.
In 2008, the impact of the recession in Spain resulted in the 2008 carrying value of licences at four bingo clubs exceeding their Mecca Bingo estimated recoverable amount and an impairment charge of In 2008, an impairment charge of 1.9m was recognised 7.9m being recognised.
The 2009 impairment review indicates in respect of a small number of clubs where the impact of the carrying value of the licences of 21.3m to be appropriate.
competitor openings resulted in estimated cash flows that were However, there are possible changes in the key assumptions that lower than the carrying value of property, plant and equipment.
These are: Top Rank Espaa Possiblechange  In 2008, an impairment charge of 8.4m was recognised in Increased or improved relation to four bingo clubs where the impact of the recession competition Customer visits in Spain resulted in estimated cash flows that were lower than the carrying value of the bingo licences, property, plant Poor or decreased and equipment.
promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to Grosvenor Casinos technological advances Customer visits In 2008, an impairment charge of 2.8m was recognised in respect of a limited number of casinos where the impact Deterioration in of increased competition resulted in estimated cash flows economic conditions Customer visits, spend per visit that were lower than the carrying value of property, plant Changes in regulation Customer visits, spend per visit and equipment.
As outlined above, each Spanish bingo licence has been tested Rank Interactive for impairment as part of the club as a whole.
Accordingly, the In 2008, an impairment charge of 1.4m was recognised in sensitivity of each licence to future impairments, arising from respect of certain software development assets which had no changes in the key assumptions, varies at each club.
The fall in material value in use or resale value.
gaming win required for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value of the club ranges between 7% and 72%.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 13 Investments in subsidiaries Company 2009 2008 m m Cost At 1 January and 31 December 1,515.6 1,515.6 Provision for impairment At 1 January 489.3 172.0 Charge for the year 317.3 At 31 December 489.3 489.3 Net book amount 1,026.3 1,026.3 A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 39.
In 2008, the significant deterioration in the economy and changes in market sentiment towards the betting and gaming industry led to a reduction in the earnings multiples used as a basis for the annual impairment review of the carrying value of the Companys investments in subsidiaries.
As a result, an impairment loss of 317.3m was recognised.
Following the 2009 impairment review, the directors believe the net book amount remains appropriate.
14 Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise UK listed equity investments, which by their nature have no xed maturity date or coupon rate.
The fair value of UK listed equity investments at 31 December 2009 was nil 2008: nil and has been estimated using valuation guidelines based on market prices.
The prolonged decline in the fair value of the equities resulted in an impairment loss of 0.1m and cumulative fair value losses of 0.6m, previously recognised in equity, being charged to other financial losses in the income statement in 2008.
15 Inventories Group 2009 2008 m m Raw materials 0.3 0.4 Finished goods 3.4 3.4 3.7 3.8 The Group wrote down nil 2008: nil of inventories.
84 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 16 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current Trade receivables 2.1 2.7 Less: provisions for impairment of trade receivables 0.1 1.0 Trade receivables net 2.0 1.7 Prepayments 17.9 17.4 Other receivables 6.1 15.2 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 43.6 43.6 26.0 34.3 43.6 43.6 Non-current Other receivables 2.1 1.9 2.1 1.9 Group The carrying values of trade receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to the short-term nature of trade receivables.
As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 0.1m 2008: 1.0m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 0.1m 2008: 1.0m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Up to 3 months 3 to 6 months 0.1 Over 6 months 0.1 0.9 0.1 1.0 As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 0.4m 2008: 0.6m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Up to 3 months 0.2 0.5 3 to 6 months 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.6 The carrying amounts of the Groups trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 m m UK Sterling 1.9 1.6 Euro 0.1 0.1 2.0 1.7 The movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 1.0 0.9 Exchange movement 0.1 Provision for receivables impairment 0.2 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.8 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 0.1 1.0 The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company The carrying value of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings is assumed to equate to their fair value as all amounts are repayable on demand.
The amounts are denominated in UK Sterling and relate to subsidiary undertakings for which there is no history of default.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 17 Trade and other payables current Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Trade payables 16.9 16.2 Social security and other taxes 26.9 32.2 Other payables 62.1 63.5 2.0 2.0 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 750.7 562.8 105.9 111.9 752.7 564.8 18 Income tax Group 2009 2008 m m Income tax receivable 0.4 3.9 Income tax payable continuing operations 0.3 6.6 Income tax payable discontinued operations 26.0 Income tax payable 26.3 6.6 Net income tax payable 25.9 2.7 Income tax payable on discontinued operations was included in other non-current liabilities in 2008 and relates to ongoing tax exposures on discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions and tax planning that has been challenged by the relevant tax authority.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
19 Financial guarantees The fair value of the guarantees issued by the Company is 1.4m 2008: 1.0m.
This is calculated by applying the Companys probability of default, derived from the Companys credit rating, to the 31 December 2009 drawn debt of subsidiaries guaranteed by the Company.
86 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 20 Borrowings Borrowings comprise the following: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 7.3 6.9 Convertible bonds net of unamortised facility fees and equity component 158.0 158.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.7 0.7 Other including accrued interest and unamortised facility fees 0.2 3.3 2.7 7.8 168.9 160.7 Non-current US Dollar Yankee bonds 8.9 9.9 Syndicated loan facilities 222.0 150.0 Obligations under finance leases 12.0 12.7 Unamortised facility fees 0.6 1.7 242.3 170.9 Total borrowings 250.1 339.8 160.7 Sterling 169.2 329.9 160.7 Euros 72.0 US Dollars 8.9 9.9 Total borrowings 250.1 339.8 160.7 During the year ended 31 December 2008, convertible bonds with a par value of 9.5m were redeemed for a cost of 9.1m.
The discount arising of 0.4m was recognised in other financial gains in the income statement.
The remaining convertible bonds matured in January 2009 and were redeemed at par value from existing facilities.
The bonds were convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid ordinary shares at 3.5167 per share.
Interest was paid half yearly in January and July.
The effective interest rate on the liability portion of the bond was 4.2%.
None of the bonds were converted during either year.
At 31st December 2009, there were drawings of 222.0m 2008: 150.0m on the syndicated bank facility.
The facility was signed on 14 April 2007 and consists of a 150.0m term loan and 250.0m multi-currency revolving credit facility.
Both the term loan and the revolving credit facility expire in April 2012.
Interest is payable on a monthly basis.
Also included in borrowings is US$14.3m 8.9m 2008: US$14.3m 9.9m of Yankee bonds which mature in 2018.
Interest on the Yankee bonds is payable half yearly in January and July at a rate of 7.125%.
Borrowings include obligations under finance leases, of which 0.7m 2008: 0.7m expire within one year, 0.8m 2008: 0.7m expire between one and two years, 2.7m 2008: 2.5m expire between two and five years, and 8.5m 2008: 9.5m expire after five years.
The Group complied with all its covenants during the period.
The carrying amounts and fair value of non-current borrowings are as follows: Carryingamount Fairvalue 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m US Dollar Yankee bonds 8.9 9.9 8.7 9.6 Syndicated loan facilities 222.0 150.0 222.0 150.0 Obligations under finance leases 12.0 12.7 12.0 12.7 Unamortised facility fees 0.6 1.7 0.6 1.7 Non-current 242.3 170.9 242.1 170.6 Undrawn borrowing facilities At 31 December 2009, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities available of 178.0m 2008: 250.0m in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
These facilities expire in April 2012 and accrue interest at floating rates.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 21 Derivative financial instruments There were no derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2009.
2008 Assets Liabilities m m Forward exchange contract net investment hedge 8.9 14.4 Forward exchange contract cash flow hedge 2.3 0.1 Total 11.2 14.5 There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded.
Nominal values of derivative financial instruments The nominal values of derivative financial instruments at 31 December 2008 were: 2008 US$m m Forward exchange contract net investment hedge 94.3 83.0 Forward exchange contract cash flow hedge 25.7 a Fair value hedge There were no interest rate swap contracts at 31 December in either year.
In January 2008, $100m of swaps matured.
These swaps hedged the interest due on the 2008 Yankee bonds, which were payable in January and July of each year.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the gain on the fair value hedge instrument was 0.4m and the loss on the underlying 2008 Yankee bond was 0.4m.
b Cash ow hedges At 31 December 2009, the Group did not hold any instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group entered into a series of currency forwards to hedge the repayment of US Dollar debt and interest due in January 2018.
The nominal value of the derivatives at 31 December 2008 was $25.7m with a fair value of 2.2m.
These instruments matured in January 2009. c Net investment hedges The Group has hedged the translation risk on its Euro denominated assets using a Euro denominated loan.
The nominal value of the loan at 31 December 2009 was 81.0m 2008: nil, with a net fair value of 72.0m 2008: nil.
The gain on the retranslation of this borrowing was recognised in equity to offset the loss on translation of the net investment in the subsidiaries.
There is no ineffectiveness for the year ending 31 December 2009.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had hedged the translation risk on its Euro denominated assets using a series of forward foreign currency contracts.
The nominal value of the contracts at 31 December 2008 was 83.0m, with a net fair value of 13.5 m. At 31 December 2008, the Group had hedged the translation risk on its US Dollar denominated liabilities using a series of forward foreign currency contracts.
The nominal value of the contracts at 31 December 2008 was $94.3m, with a net fair value of 8.0m.
88 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 22 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Group Derivatives Loansand usedfor receivables hedging Total m m m 31 December 2009 Derivative financial instruments Trade and other receivables 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 64.1 Total financial assets as per balance sheet 66.2 66.2 31 December 2008 Derivative financial instruments 11.2 11.2 Trade and other receivables 2.7 2.7 Cash and cash equivalents 111.7 111.7 Total financial assets as per balance sheet 114.4 11.2 125.6 Derivatives Other usedfor financial hedging liabilities Total m m m 31 December 2009 Borrowings 250.1 250.1 Trade and other payables 79.0 79.0 Onerous property leases 31.7 31.7 Lease disposal settlements 2.5 2.5 Derivative financial instruments Total financial liabilities as per balance sheet 363.3 363.3 31 December 2008 Borrowings 339.8 339.8 Trade and other payables 79.7 79.7 Onerous property leases 35.2 35.2 Lease disposal settlements 4.0 4.0 Derivative financial instruments 14.5 14.5 Total financial liabilities as per balance sheet 14.5 458.7 473.2 Company Loansand receivables Total m m 31 December 2009 Trade and other receivables 43.6 43.6 Total financial assets as per balance sheet 43.6 43.6 31 December 2008 Trade and other receivables 43.6 43.6 Total financial assets as per balance sheet 43.6 43.6 Liabilitiesat fairvalue Other throughprofit financial andloss liabilities Total m m m 31 December 2009 Borrowings Trade and other payables 752.7 752.7 Financial guarantees 1.4 1.4 Total financial liabilities as per balance sheet 1.4 752.7 754.1 31 December 2008 Borrowings 160.7 160.7 Trade and other payables 564.8 564.8 Financial guarantees 1.0 1.0 Total financial liabilities as per balance sheet 1.0 725.5 726.5 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 23 Financial risk management Group this where necessary.
However, due to the current economic Financial risk factors climate the Group has exercised its right to operate outside The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: policy.
At 31 December 2009, 9% of the Groups debt was held market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, in fixed rate borrowings 2008: 54%.
cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and During 2009, the Groups borrowings at variable rate were liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme denominated in UK Sterling and Euro 2008: UK Sterling.
focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group, where appropriate, uses derivative refinancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative financing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury impact on profit and loss of a defined interest rate shift.
For each simulation, the same interest rate shift is used for all currencies.
department Group treasury under policies approved by the board of directors.
Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges The scenarios are run only for liabilities that represent the major interest bearing positions.
Based on the simulations performed, financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating the impact on profit or loss of a 100 basis-point shift in UK units.
The board provides written principles for overall risk Sterling borrowings would be a maximum increase of 1.6m management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, 2008: 1.7m or decrease of 1.6m 2008: 1.7m, respectively.
such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use The impact on profit and loss of a 100 basis-point shift in Euro of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial borrowings would be a maximum increase of 0.7m 2008: nil instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
or decrease of 0.7m 2008: nil, respectively.
a Market risk When appropriate, the Group manages its cash flow i Foreign exchange risk interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Generally, the primarily with respect to the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises Group raises long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps from recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in them into fixed rates that are lower than those available if foreign operations.
the Group borrowed at fixed rates directly.
Under the interest The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation at specified intervals primarily half yearly, the difference risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currency.
Occasionally, the Group also enters into fixed-to-floating Group policy is to hedge 90% of material, identified exposures.
interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk The Group has considered movements in US Dollar and arising where it has borrowed at fixed rates in excess of the Euro over the last five years and has concluded that a 2.1% 60% target.
movement in US Dollar and a 3.7% movement in Euro are During 2009, the group did not enter into any fixed-toreasonable benchmarks.
floating or floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2009, if the US Dollar had weakened b Credit risk strengthened by 2.1% against UK Sterling, with all other variables Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and materially unchanged 2008: nil higher lower, mainly as a deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of US Dollar exposures on outstanding receivables.
The majority of US Dollar denominated The Group only deals with banks and financial institutions borrowings matured in January 2008.
Equity would also have with which they have a lending or advisory relationship.
The creditworthiness of each counterparty is checked against At 31 December 2009, if the Euro had weakened strengthened independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with by 3.7% against UK Sterling, with all other variables held constant, a minimum rating of A required.
An internal rating is then post-tax profit for the year would have been materially unchanged allocated and an individual credit limit is set in accordance with 2008: nil higher lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange policy set by the board.
Management reviews the utilisation of gains losses on translation of Euro denominated cash balances.
credit limits on a regular basis.
In 2008, the Group reduced the ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk credit limit of each of its counterparties and where necessary nil As the Group has no significant interest bearing assets limits were introduced.
These have remained in place in 2009. excluding cash and cash equivalents, the Groups income and The Group predominantly uses AAA rated Money Market operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes Funds when investing its surplus cash.
The rating and portfolio in market interest rates.
The Groups only interest bearing assets of each fund is reviewed on at least a weekly basis.
In addition are cash and cash equivalents excluding cash floats, which to investing the Groups cash with Money Market Funds, the earn floating rate interest.
Group invests with lending banks when appropriate.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the credit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed considered significant.
rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period policy is to maintain between 40% and 60% of its borrowings and management does not expect any losses from nonin fixed rate instruments using interest rate swaps to achieve performance of its counterparties.
90 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 23 Financial risk management continued Cash Derivatives Total 2009 m m m AAA 20.4 20.4 AA 14.0 14.0 A 1.2 1.2 Other 1.7 1.7 Cash floats 26.8 26.8 Cash, cash equivalents and derivative assets 64.1 64.1 Cash Derivatives Total 2008 m m m AAA 47.9 47.9 AA 3.7 5.7 9.4 A 35.8 5.5 41.3 Other 3.4 3.4 Cash floats 20.9 20.9 Cash, cash equivalents and derivative assets 111.7 11.2 122.9 c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance are reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A four-year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages its financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Group has committed financing facilities until April 2012, of which 178.0m 2008: 250.0m was undrawn at 31 December 2009.
The Groups core debt facility is a 400.0m syndicated bank facility.
The Group considers the counterparties to this facility to be of high quality and proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversied by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Lessthan Between Between 1year 1and2years 2and5years Over5years At 31December2009 m m m m Borrowings 8.9 1.7 227.4 24.0 Trade and other payables 79.0 Onerous lease payments 3.5 2.6 6.9 38.9 Lease disposal settlements 0.6 0.6 1.5 92.0 4.9 235.8 62.9 At31December2008 m m m m Borrowings 169.6 1.4 155.3 19.5 Derivative financial instruments gross settled inflow 106.5 Derivative financial instruments gross settled outflow 30.5 Trade and other payables 79.7 Onerous lease payments 3.8 2.9 7.3 42.6 Lease disposal settlements 1.2 0.7 2.1 0.4 391.3 5.0 164.7 62.5 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 23 Financial risk management continued Capital risk management During the difficult conditions that have developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital have been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
The Groups leverage in 2009 was in line with its revised medium-term strategy, which was to maintain a leverage ratio of 2.0 to 2.5 times and its overall objective is to continue to operate with prudent levels of leverage during the current global financial crisis.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of its leverage ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and cash equivalents, less accrued interest, less unamortised facility fees and amounts relating to discontinued operations.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation.
The leverage ratios at 31 December 2009 and 2008 were as follows: 2009 2008 Note m m Total borrowings 20 250.1 339.8 Less: Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 111.7 Less: Accrued interest 0.6 4.0 Less: Unamortised facility fees 1.4 2.4 Net debt 186.8 226.5 Continuing operations: Operating profit before exceptionals 58.0 60.3 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 25.9 26.3 EBITDA 83.9 86.6 Leverage ratio 2.2 2.6 Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term bonds.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of quoted borrowings is based on year-end mid-market quoted prices.
The fair values of other borrowings and the derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash ows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
Company The Company has no financial instruments apart from insignificant levels of cash, therefore the Company does not have any significant exposure to financial risks.
92 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 24 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the year is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax assets Accelerated capital allowances 34.6 41.3 Tax losses carried forward 10.1 15.7 Deferred tax assets 44.7 57.0 Deferred tax liabilities Other overseas timing differences 6.3 6.9 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 1.8 1.9 Other UK timing differences 19.4 11.8 Deferred tax liabilities 27.5 20.6 Net deferred tax asset 17.2 36.4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 21.2m 2008: 13.7m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax assets 23.5 43.3 Deferred tax liabilities 6.3 6.9 Net deferred tax asset 17.2 36.4 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax assets, which arise solely in respect of unused income tax losses, was as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Expiring in 2017 8.3 9.0 No expiry date 0.3 2.2 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 8.6 11.2 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 24 Deferred tax continued Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 2008: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that the unremitted earnings will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The Company had no deferred tax asset or liability in either year.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 6.8 3.3 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.2 0.6 Tax losses 3.6 8.5 Other timing differences 7.8 34.9 Total deferred tax expense credit 18.0 30.3 Continuing operations 16.6 30.3 Discontinued operations 1.4 Total deferred tax expense credit 18.0 30.3 The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Net deferred tax asset at 1 January 36.4 6.0 Exchange adjustments 0.6 2.1 Deferred tax expense credit 18.0 30.3 Deferred tax on items included in equity 1.8 2.2 Net deferred tax asset at 31 December 17.2 36.4 25 Other non-current liabilities Group 2009 2008 m m Deferred consideration 0.3 UK corporation tax and overseas taxation 18.5 38.8 18.8 38.8 UK corporation tax and overseas taxation of 18.5m 2008: 38.8m relates to ongoing tax exposures on discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions and tax planning that has been challenged by the relevant tax authority.
94 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 26 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Onerous Disposal leases provisions Total Group m m m At 1 January 2009 34.1 22.2 56.3 Exchange adjustments 0.7 0.7 Unwinding of discount 1.3 0.2 1.5 Impact of change in discount rate charged to the income statement exceptional 1.0 1.0 Charged to the income statement discontinued exceptional 4.2 4.2 Released to the income statement discontinued exceptional 5.0 5.0 Utilised in year 3.2 8.5 11.7 At 31 December 2009 31.2 12.4 43.6 Current 2.9 6.1 9.0 Non-current 28.3 6.3 34.6 Total 31.2 12.4 43.6 The maturity profile of provisions is as follows: 2009 Within one year 2.9 6.1 9.0 Between one and two years 2.1 2.1 4.2 Between two and five years 5.0 4.2 9.2 Over five years 21.2 21.2 31.2 12.4 43.6 2008 Within one year 3.8 9.2 13.0 Between one and two years 2.3 7.7 10.0 Between two and five years 5.9 4.9 10.8 Over five years 22.1 0.4 22.5 34.1 22.2 56.3 Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the future cash flows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation, and have been discounted at a risk free interest rate of 4.1% 2008: 3.6% where the effects of inflation will have a material impact.
Onerous leases The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash ows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have an unexpired life of between under one year and 80 years.
Disposal provisions The disposal provisions held at 31 December comprise the following: 2009 2008 m m Onerous leases 0.5 1.1 Deferred payments arising on lease settlement and related costs 2.5 4.0 Insurance claims 4.3 6.0 Warranty claims 5.0 Other 5.1 6.1 Total disposal provisions 12.4 22.2 Provision has been made for outstanding insurance claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of a US lease obligation and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any insurance claims is uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 27 Share capital 2009 2008 Authorised Authorised Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm Ordinary shares of 13 8 9p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 2009 2008 Issuedandfullypaid Issuedandfullypaid Nominal Nominal Number value Number value mm mm At 1 January and 31 December Ordinary shares of 13 8 9p each 390.5 54.2 390.5 54.2 There were no movements in authorised or issued ordinary shares in either year.
1,059,826 2008: 1,059,826 ordinary shares in the Company are held by the Rank Group Employee benefit Trust the Trust.
The amount paid to acquire the shares has been deducted from retained earnings within shareholders equity.
Dividends on the shares held by the Trust have been waived by the trustees with the exception of one penny in respect of each dividend that is paid by the Company.
The Trust may make such investments in the shares of the Company or otherwise as the trustees may determine to provide benets to any eligible employee.
The benets may be provided in the form of shares, cash or otherwise, although any share-related benefit will be provided in accordance with an appropriate employee share scheme or bonus scheme of the Company.
The shares held by the Trust represent less than 0.3% 2008: 0.3% of the Companys called-up share capital.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which they relate.
The market value of the shares at 31 December 2009 was 0.9m 2008: 0.7m.
28 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 60.8 9.1 0.2 Exceptional items 2.8 69.4 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 58.0 60.3 0.2 Depreciation and amortisation 25.9 26.3 Decrease increase in working capital 2.5 4.2 0.1 0.1 Other 0.9 0.6 0.2 87.3 90.2 0.1 0.1 Net cash payments receipts in respect of exceptional items and provisions 17.6 32.3 Cash generated from used in operations 69.7 122.5 0.1 0.1 The net receipt in respect of exceptional items and provisions in 2008 of 32.3m primarily related to the prior year element of the 59.1m VAT recovery net of the cash utilisation of provisions, including the settlement of the Groups lease obligation in relation to its remaining plant in the US.
96 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 29 Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m ` Cash at bank and in hand 42.1 40.4 Current asset investments 22.0 71.3 Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 111.7 The analysis of cash and cash equivalents by currency is as follows: Sterling 55.9 102.9 Euro 7.5 8.0 Other currencies 0.7 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 111.7 The fair value of cash and current asset investments equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statements: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 Note m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 64.1 111.7 Bank overdrafts 20 7.3 6.9 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 56.8 104.8 30 Acquisition of businesses On 23 April 2009, the Group acquired the casino at the Ricoh Arena in Coventry from Isle of Capri Limited for a total purchase consideration of 0.7m.
No goodwill arose on the acquisition.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition and a reconciliation to the cash outflow on acquisition of businesses, were as follows: 2009 m Assets Intangible assets 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 0.9 Liabilities Trade and other payables 0.2 Net assets acquired 0.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition Purchase consideration 0.7 Less: deferred consideration 0.4 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 0.1 Cash outflow in relation to current year acquisition 0.2 Add: deferred consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.1 Cash outflow on acquisition of businesses 0.3 During 2008, the Group paid 3.8m in deferred consideration, primarily in relation to the acquisition of its two casinos in Belgium in 1998 following settlement of a legal case with the vendor.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 31 Employees and directors a Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 147.9 138.9 Social security costs 15.9 15.0 Pension costs 2.5 3.5 Share-based payments 0.9 167.2 157.4 The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
b Average monthly number of employees by segment 2009 2008 Mecca Bingo 3,737 3,596 Top Rank Espaa 581 592 Grosvenor Casinos 3,430 3,160 Rank Interactive 192 176 Central 245 228 8,185 7,752 c Key management compensation 2009 2008 m m Salaries and short-term employee benets 4.1 3.9 Termination benefits 0.4 0.8 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Share-based payments 0.9 0.2 5.8 4.9 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of 1.3m in respect of the current year that will be paid next year 2008: 0.8m.
Key management is defined as the directors of the Group and the executive management team.
Details of the executive management team are set out on page 41 and further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including options to purchase ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by directors in the year ended 31 December 2009 are also detailed in the remuneration report.
e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc 2009 2008 m m Aggregate emoluments 2.1 2.4 There were no gains on the exercise of share options by directors in either year.
No director accrued benefits under defined benefit pension schemes in either year.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
98 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 32 Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company operated the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Details of these schemes are included in the remuneration report on pages 50 to 52.
The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, each of the share option arrangements SAYE and ESOS during the year are shown below, together with the weighted average share price WASP at the date of exercise where applicable: Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1January during during during during 31December 31December 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 ESOS Number of shares 1,641,490 1,361,271 280,219 280,219 WAEP 243.99p 240.07p 263.01p 263.01p WASP SAYE three year Number of shares 1,359,483 473,921 30,321 855,241 WAEP 162.62p 181.29p 147.00p 152.83p WASP SAYE five year Number of shares 792,119 359,643 36,987 395,489 WAEP 175.85p 186.17p 174.57p 166.58p WASP Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1January during during during during 31December 31December 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 ESOS Number of shares 4,878,595 82,872 3,154,233 1,641,490 345,774 WAEP 271.86p 336.27p 284.68p 243.99p 263.07p WASP SAYE three year Number of shares 2,659,923 1,193,388 107,052 1,359,483 WAEP 158.37p 152.73p 167.26p 162.62p WASP SAYE five year Number of shares 1,292,759 454,916 45,724 792,119 WAEP 171.60p 164.04p 173.20p 175.85p WASP THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED C 32 Share-based payments continued The share options outstanding at the year end have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows:   Weighted Weighted average Number average Number Exercise remaining ofshares Exercise remaining ofshares prices contractual under prices contractual under range life option range life option ESOS 187.50p271.00p 2.3 years 280,219 187.50p320.33p 6.3 years 1,641,490 SAYE three year 139.00p187.00p 1.1 years 855,241 139.00p268.00p 1.9 years 1,359,483 SAYE five year 139.00p268.00p 2.8 years 395,489 139.00p268.00p 2.9 years 792,119 The estimated fair values for each of the ESOS and SAYE awards granted are calculated using a Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value of LTIP awards is calculated using a Monte Carlo model approach, and indicates the proportion of shares likely to vest.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
There have been no ESOS or SAYE awards granted during either year.
The expected life of LTIP awards is determined by the performance period.
Details of the expected life and the weighted average fair value per share of the LTIP awards during the year were as follows: 2009 2008 Expected life of award 2.33 years 3 years Weighted average fair value per share 77.75p 78.75p The Group recognised a 0.9m charge in operating profit from accounting for share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 2008: nil.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at the end of 2009 of 0.1m 2008: 0.2m of which nil 2008: nil was in respect of vested grants.
100 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
