Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and for the Group financial statements Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
We are also accountable for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, therefore, for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of Ranks corporate website, on which this Annual Report and Financial Statements are published, is the boards responsibility.
We would draw attention to the fact that legislation in the UK on the preparation and publication of Financial Statements may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Companys going concern statement can be found on page 37.
Shareholder communications The principal method of communicating with our shareholders is via our corporate website www.
Information can be provided in paper format but only when shareholders specifically request this.
Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and other general meetings of the Company.
Annualgeneralmeeting AGM All shareholders are welcome to attend our AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask questions following a summary business presentation of the Groups results and development plans.
The chairman and chief executive and chairmen of the audit, remuneration, finance and nominations committees are all present.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions contained in the Notice of Meeting, which is published at least 20 days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting results and a summary of the questions and answers are made available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
Next AGM The 2010 annual general meeting will be held on 22 April 2010 and the full text of the Notice of Meeting, together with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: www.
If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed with your hard copy of this annual report.
Shareholders wishing to change that election may do so at any time by contacting the Companys registrar contact details are on the inside back cover of this report and on our website at the address above.
By order of the board Frances Bingham CompanySecretary 24February2010 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 57
