Parent company independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the parent company Opinion on financial statements Other matter financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser In our opinion the parent company We have reported separately on the Group Group plc for the year ended 31 December financial statements: financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser Group 2009 which comprise the Parent company plc for the year ended 31 December 2009. give a true and fair view of the state of the balance sheet and the related notes.
The Companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law have been properly prepared in accordance Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor and United Kingdom Accounting Standards with United Kingdom Generally Accepted for and on behalf of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and  LLP Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Respective responsibilities of Directors requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
London and auditors 15 March 2010 Opinion on other matters prescribed by the As explained more fully in the Statement of Companies Act 2006 Notes: Directors responsibilities set out on page 16, In our opinion: The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt the Directors are responsible for the preparation Benckiser Group plc website is the of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration responsibility of the Directors: the work for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Report to be audited has been properly carried out by the auditors does not involve view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent prepared in accordance with the Companies consideration of these matters and, company financial statements in accordance Act 2006: and accordingly, the auditors accept no with applicable law and International Standards the information given in the Report of the responsibility for any changes that may have on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Directors for the financial year for which the occurred to the financial statements since require us to comply with the Auditing Practices parent company financial statements are they were initially presented on the website.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
prepared is consistent with the parent Legislation in the United Kingdom governing This report, including the opinions, has been company financial statements.
the preparation and dissemination of prepared for and only for the Companys Matters on which we are required to financial statements may differ from members as a body in accordance with Chapter report by exception legislation in other jurisdictions.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and We have nothing to report in respect of for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the following matters where the Companies these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in for any other purpose or to any other person to our opinion: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by adequate accounting records have not been our prior consent in writing.
kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Scope of the audit of the financial received from branches not visited by us: or statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the the parent company financial statements and amounts and disclosures in the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration statements sufficient to give reasonable Report to be audited are not in agreement assurance that the financial statements are with the accounting records and returns: or free from material misstatement, whether certain disclosures of Directors remuneration caused by fraud or error.
This includes an specified by law are not made: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys we have not received all the information and circumstances and have been consistently explanations we require for our audit.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
