1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review As construction has increased we have Average bank debt for the financial year and the further provisions required in gradually started to recruit again, in many ended 30 June 2009 was approximately relation to the carrying value of land and cases approaching staff who were made 20m lower at 258m 2008: 278m.
Partially offsetting these redundant previously.
This recruitment is Money market interest rates fell significantly costs was a significant pension credit which largely site-based but also encompasses during the period, with the average of 3 arose as a consequence of both changes some positions at a managerial level to month money market rates standing at made to the defined benefit section of the ensure we can appropriately control the 2.6% 2008: 6.0%.
However, the level of pension scheme which capped increases in growth in activity.
facility fees and higher margins incurred on pensionable salary and also as a the Groups refinancing in September 2008 consequence of the redundancies during We considered and implemented broader meant that the underlying net interest the year.
These exceptional items are actions across our employee base to charge increased to 21.6m 2008: summarised below: control cost.
This figure includes 1.7m in respect of the maximum award relating to the imputed interest charge m achievable and in July 2009 salaries were arising on land creditors 2008: 3.1m.
Redundancy costs arising on generally frozen for their second successive Group restructuring 4.3 year.
The 50% share of the Joint Venture to Impairment for surplus offices 1.2 re-develop Watford Junction Railway Station Pension curtailment credit Board costs were also reduced during the holds certain rights and land assets which non-cash 14.5 year, following Steve Morgans return to are viewed as important to the success of March 2009 Board restructuring Cwm Calon, Caerphilly, received a Redrow, initially as Deputy Chairman and, this scheme.
Although progress was made incl.
advisory fees 2.4 commendation in the Best New Build subsequently, from 30 June 2009 as in negotiations with various stakeholders, Net realisable value provision Village category of the 2008 Daily Telegraph Your New Home Awards.
Steve is contracted to provide development of this project is not expected against land and WIP 96.5 three days services per week, although in the near term.
Redrows share of the loss Provision against onerous contracts 6.7 since returning he has committed a much during the period after interest and tax was Total Exceptional Costs 96.6 greater level of his time to the business.
with the impact of redundancies, a committed to develop referred to as Type 1 The net realisable value of the Type 2 sites significant pension curtailment credit arose plots and that element of the land bank has been assessed on the basis of the Administration costs before exceptional The loss before tax from continuing Restructuring Costs which amounted to a net 14.5m.
This where no commitment to develop had been estimated proceeds that could be realised items were 22.8% lower at 27.8m 2008: operations and before exceptional items The significant reduction in headcount does not have a direct cash impact upon made referred to as Type 2 plots.
The from their sale in the open market.
following the redundancy and office closure the Groups financial position but is Board has adopted a similar approach at the very limited level of activity in the land programme instituted gave rise to a cash reflected in the reduced liabilities within the 30 June 2009 and once more engaged market over the last twelve months, this cost of 4.3m.
In addition, 1.2m was defined benefit section of the Groups external professional advice to support this has been estimated by assessing the likely Operating Loss, Financing Costs and Exceptional Items provided in relation to the carrying value of pension scheme arising from these scheme review process.
level of financial return appropriate for Joint Ventures During the financial year a number of those premises we have identified as changes and reduced active membership.
developers in the current market in order to The Group reported an operating loss of one-off costs were incurred relating to the available for sale.
The Companys actuary The number of active members in this The gradual improvement in the stability of impute a land value.
This work was 22.4m 2008: 84.5m profit before restructuring of the Group, including the has calculated that following the capping of section of the pension scheme fell from the housing market seen over the last six supported by the external valuers.
The net exceptional items and financing costs.
Board changes announced in March 2009, increases in pensionable salaries together 240 at 1 July 2008 to 157 at 1 July 2009. months, combined with the Groups realisable value provision recognised in the progress in line with its debt objectives, has financial year ended 30 June 2009 in The cost of the Board restructuring agreed enabled development to commence on respect of Type 2 plots has resulted in an Vision @ Devonport, Plymouth, winner of in March 2009 was 2.4m including the 'mothballed' sites and new phases on exceptional charge of 56.5m.
This Best Regeneration Partnership and also Companys advisory costs in relation to existing land holdings to be started.
This in additional provision reflected the downward The Community Award in the 2008 Board changes following Steve Morgans turn has allowed approximately 5,300 plots movement in pricing, together with an Housebuilding Innovation Awards.
The figure also includes the to be transferred from Type 2 to Type 1 assessment of costs to complete the compensation payment made to Neil plots.
The remaining plots categorised as developments.
More than offsetting this Fitzsimmons for loss of office in relation to Type 2 now largely constitute sites where charge was a net provision release totalling his stepping down as Chief Executive.
either the planning consent and product is 145.4m which almost exclusively related not in keeping with the Groups future to the reclassification of Type 2 to strategic direction or later phases of large Type 1 plots.
The net exceptional credit Net Realisable Value Provisions and sites which, in both cases, Redrow would recognised during the financial year in Provisions Against Onerous Contracts be willing to exchange or sell to liberate respect of Type 2 plots was 88.9m.
The continued downturn in the housing capital.
The total net realisable value provision in market experienced during the year has respect of the Type 2 land as at 30 June required the Directors to once more review 2009 was 116.5m June 2008: Plots the carrying value of land and work in 218.1m.
In respect of the previous June 09 June 08 financial year, the Directors had undertaken Following the transfer of the majority of Type Type 1 9,300 5,400 a detailed review of the net realisable value 2 plots to Type 1, 74% of the Groups Type 2 3,200 9,500 of all the Groups land holdings as at owned land bank with planning now Total 12,500 14,900 30 June 2008.
This applied to both plots constitutes Type 1 plots.
The net realisable value of these plots was estimated by in development, or which the Group was comparing our assessment of selling prices 12 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review Land Land June 2009 June 2008 Current land Owned land with planning 12,500 14,900 Contracted plots 630 1,550 Current land bank total 13,130 16,450 Forward land Owned land without planning 400 900 Options - allocations 9,000 8,700 - realistic prospect 13,400 16,550 Forward land bank total 22,800 26,150 14 15 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review As at 30 June 2009, the net realisable consequence of this action we successfully As at 30 June 2009, land creditors had against cost of completion.
Whilst the During the financial year ended 30 June The Groups land holdings comprises of value provision against land and work in reduced our stock levels of completed reduced to 53.4m June 2008: 92.6m housing market has remained relatively 2009, the Group successfully re-negotiated both a current and forward land bank.
As at progress was 319.4m June 2008: homes by over 500 to 435 homes.
of which 27.1m is due for payment within stable for the last six months, we remain contractual commitments on future land 30 June 2009, the current land bank 259.4m with 270.5m against land and one year June 2008: 68.5m.
This concerned that there is a risk of further purchases and also saw a number of consists of 12,500 plots owned with 48.9m against work in progress.
The In the nine months to March 2009 we built reduction in land creditors and the modest fluctuations in house prices and contracts lapse.
However, the Directors planning June 2008: 14,900 and 630 average plot cost of the owned land bank the equivalent of just 630 homes, excluding associated land payments made during the have therefore included an allowance for have provided 6.7m against a number of contracted plots June 2008: 1,550 plots.
after NRV provision and taking into account the Groups In the City and Regeneration year influenced the relatively modest such a pricing environment.
In addition, the contracts viewed as onerous.
The owned land is reflected in our balance apartment schemes.
However, with all the plots in the Groups land bank was reduction in net debt achieved during the provision allows for costs based upon a sheet, together with deposits in respect of evidence of greater stability in the housing 23,000 June 2008: 25,100.
In addition, the level of trade slower rate of sale, more consistent with contracted land, land for commercial market we increased construction activity our experience during the financial year Loss before tax and earnings per share development and sundry land holdings, if the impact of the residual In the City payables due within one year reduced more generally in the final quarter of our ended 30 June 2009.
We have also The Group is reporting a loss before tax and including forward land without planning.
As apartment schemes, Debut product and significantly from 111.0m at June 2008 to financial year with our construction output included an estimate of cost relating to after exceptional items of 140.8m 2008: at 30 June 2009, land in the Groups social housing to which we have allocated 86.0m at June 2009.
This movement, increasing to an annualised rate of 1,600 direct overhead expenses attributable to the 193.9m.
The basic loss per share from balance sheet was 299.9m June 2008: nil land value is taken into account, the which absorbed cash generated by homes.
This has continued into the new process required to achieve the legal continuing operations before exceptional 385.4m.
average plot cost of the balance of the land operations, was a function of the marked year and is now more in line with our completion of a home.
These factors, taken items was 19.3p 2008: 28.8p of bank increases to 27,000 which is more impact the slowdown in construction activity We responded to the downturn in the budgeted completions.
together with the transfer of plots from Type earnings.
The basic loss per share from indicative of the plot cost of future private had on trade creditors.
Redrow has housing market by curtailing our land buying 2, have resulted in an exceptional charge continuing operations including exceptional legal completions.
endeavoured to abide, throughout the activities and as a result the level of land As at 30 June 2009, work in progress was recognised in the year of 185.4m.
markets of 2008 and 2009, by agreed controlled under contract reduced to 630 268.4m June 2008: 368.0m, which this is netted against the exceptional credit Our forward land portfolio is an important payment terms with its supplier and plots June 2008: 1,550.
It was only in includes 2.8m attributable to 26 owned of 88.9m arising on Type 2 plots, the net long term source for Redrow.
We look to sub-contractor partners, recognising their Land June 2009, when greater stability emerged, part-exchange properties June 2008: exceptional cost in respect of net realisable secure sites under option which will provide important role to the business.
that we contracted and completed on our 13.7m, 92 properties.
Part-exchange value provisions in the financial year ended a pipeline of potential future land supply, June June only new site purchase of the year which continues to represent a very small 30 June 2009 was 96.5m.
The net under which the purchase price is fixed by 2009 2008 was on deferred terms.
Including other sites component of the Groups marketing realisable value provision as at 30 June reference to a contractual discount to the Net Debt and Cash Flow Current Land where we had contractual commitments, proportion.
2009 in respect of Type 1 plots was open market value at the date of purchase.
Net debt reduced to 214.6m at Owned land we purchased a total of 778 plots during 202.9m June 2008: 41.3m.
This discount recognises our skills in the 30 June 2009 June 2008: 223.3m, with planning 12,500 14,900 the year at a cost of 45.0m.
The number During the year, the sale of new build promotion of land through the planning December 2008: 269.1m.
The pace of Contracted plots 630 1,550 The net realisable value provisions will of plots within our owned land bank has property using shared equity as an incentive system.
Fees and costs relating to the reduction in net debt has been managed Current land bank 13,130 16,450 continue to be reviewed at future reporting been influenced by the re-planning exercise became more prevalent in the market promotion of forward land are fully provided over the last financial year to ensure that dates to assess their appropriateness in the undertaken following our strategic focus place.
Whilst we had, historically, used against as incurred so there is no appropriate levels of headroom remain context of prevailing market conditions and back to family housing.
The level of deferred consideration and shared equity associated balance sheet risk if the site is within the Groups banking covenants to the re-assessment of net realisable value Forward Land apartments and three storey housing has within our low average selling price Debut not subsequently developed.
Option allow investment into land and work in and costs.
On the basis of the carrying Owned without planning 400 900 been reduced and, overall, plot numbers range, we had not previously used this payments are also fully provided against as progress in the new financial year.
value of land and work in progress as at 30 Options - allocations 9,000 8,700 have reduced by 8%.
Within our owned land across the business.
In the year ended 30 incurred and, as a consequence, there is no June 2009 and the prevailing market - realistic prospect 13,400 16,550 bank as at 30 June 2009, we had 23 sites June 2009 we did introduce this on a value relating to options included in the In the financial year ended 30 June 2009 conditions, the Directors do not believe any with planning not currently on sales release 22,800 26,150 targeted basis as an aid to sell stock Groups net assets as at 30 June 2009. there was a cash outflow from operations of further net writedown of inventory will be which represent a source of new outlets for properties, supplemented by the 12.1m 2008: 21.6m inflow and this required.
As We achieved notable success at a long held reflected the operating loss for the year at 30 June 2009, receivables in respect of forward land site at Liverpool where we which was almost entirely offset by a net shared equity and deferred consideration Barking Central, London received a were granted an outline planning consent reduction in working capital.
Cash incentives totalled 4.0m June 2008: commendation in the 2008 Daily Telegraph for 450 units in October 2008.
This is now generated from the reduction in inventory 3.5m.
With the successful reduction in Your New Home Awards for Best First Time included in our current land bank.
As a stock levels achieved in the last financial Buyer Development.
own forward land without a planning result of both payments in respect of land year, we have now largely withdrawn the consent representing 400 plots June commitments and the marked reduction shared equity incentive and its use is 2008: 900 plots.
in build activity on site which resulted principally focused on Debut and HomeBuy in a reduction in amounts owed to Direct homes.
We have reviewed our forward land bank sub-contractors and suppliers, there was a under option as at 30 June 2009 which cash outflow of 75.2m in respect of trade amounted to 22,800 plots June 2008: and other payables 2008: 46.7m.
The reduction is in line with Land creditors have, historically, a fresh assessment of both viability and We continue to anticipate a cash inflow represented an important source of funding planning prospects.
from operations during the course of the for land purchases.
However at the peak of new financial year which is expected to the housing market it did become more lead to a reduction in net debt by difficult to obtain deferred payment terms.
As at 30 June 2009, there In the current weaker land market we The Groups focus during the first half of the were 325 completed stock homes at the expect to see more land purchases contain financial year and continuing up to March Groups In the City schemes at Hemisphere a larger element of payment deferral.
This 2009, has been on reducing stock levels and Jupiter.
Together with the 136 new structure will assist in the Groups objective and the construction of sold plots, or homes nearing build completion in the of increasing the speed of its capital turn completing build to an appropriate point in and improving its return on capital Tower phase at the Regeneration scheme the construction process.
16 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review at Barking, there exists a continued due to mature in Autumn 2009.
The new Pensions opportunity to liberate cash from this facilities consist of an unsecured 175m The Group provides funded defined benefit element of work in progress.
Land cash amortising term loan scheduled to be fully pension arrangements and funded defined commitments for the new financial year at repaid by March 2011 and an unsecured contribution arrangements within its 30 June 2009 were at a lower level than 275m credit facility.
The facilities agreed pension scheme.
The defined benefits the same stage last year with 35m of in September 2008 have a suite of section of the pension scheme is closed to these commitments falling due for payment covenants and pricing appropriate to the new entrants.
in the new financial year.
Furthermore, the market conditions prevailing at that time significant reduction in trade creditors as a and which are considered competitive today The formal triennial valuation of the defined result of the significantly lower level of having been negotiated prior to the further benefits section of the pension scheme as construction activity in the financial year significant tightening in the banking market at 1 July 2008 was concluded in July 2009. ended 30 June 2009 is also anticipated to which followed the collapse of Lehman As part of this process the Group reverse as build increases.
recognised that, whilst the defined benefit Site Manager Shaun Phoenix from pension arrangements were viewed by Redrow Lancashire achieved a Quality The net cash inflow from operating activities In addition to the committed facilities, the members as an attractive and valuable award in the NHBC Pride in the Job was 7.4m 2008: 20.8m outflow which Group also has further uncommitted bank benefit, increasing costs arising from longer initiative for the second year running.
reflected the receipt of 40.4m in tax, facilities which are used to assist in day to life expectancy, falling interest rates and offset by interest paid of 20.9m.
poor returns on assets potentially made Redrows successful candidates from the future funding unsustainable.
After 2009 Assistant Site Manager Development Programme are presented with their The Group keeps its facilities under consultation with the active members of the certificates by John Tutte Regional Financing and Treasury Management constant review and maintains regular defined benefit section of the scheme, it Chairman Eastern.
As a UK based house builder, the main contact with its banks and advisors to was agreed that from 1 July 2009 focus of Redrows financial risk ensure that its facilities remain appropriate increases in pensionable salary will be management lies with the management of to strategic and operational objectives and limited to the lower of base salary liquidity and interest rate risk.
increases, increases in inflation, or 2.5%.
year included a 14.5m curtailment benefit and it is not currently envisaged that a management is conducted centrally using This action enabled the Group to keep the to running his own site and was awarded an net of past service cost, as a result of the dividend will be proposed in the new policies approved by the Board.
Interest rate risk defined benefits section open to future NHBC Quality Award this year.
impact of the changes to scheme benefits financial year.
Once the housing markets The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as accrual for current members whilst ensuring and redundancies arising from the recovery is more broadly based and the Liquidity and facilities it borrows money at floating rates.
The Group costs are appropriately controlled.
We have, for the first time, worked with the restructuring programme undertaken by the business has re-established a sustainable Liquidity risks are managed through the Group's interest rate risk arises primarily NHBC to offer NVQ Level 4 to our Site Group during the year.
earnings stream, the Board will consider the regular review of cashflow forecasts and by from long term borrowings and in order to As at 30 June 2009, the Group financial Managers and the first group of 8 managers resumption of dividend payments, maintaining adequate committed banking manage the risk, the Group enters into statements showed a 2.8m surplus are progressing well through the maintaining a suitable coverage ratio.
facilities to ensure adequate headroom.
simple risk management products, almost 2008: 0.2m deficit in respect of the programme.
Tax exclusively interest rate swaps.
All interest defined benefit section of the pension During the year the Group received refunds During the year, in September 2008, the rate swaps are sterling denominated and scheme, as calculated on an IAS 19 basis.
Recognising the success of our partnership on corporation tax previously paid of People Group successfully concluded its bank these are not used for speculative or trading Amounts credited against income in the with the NHBC in achieving Construction 40.4m.
This reflected the refund of We know that our objectives can only be refinancing to replace facilities which were purposes.
NVQs, we are currently piloting both Levels on-account corporation tax payments for achieved through the contribution of our 2 and 3 in the Sale of Residential Property the year ended 30 June 2008 and refunds people.
Whilst we have had to downsize to for a group of 11 Sales Managers and Scottish developments Garncroft Wynd, arising from the carry back of losses which match our overheads to the prevailing Sales Consultants.
This will build on the Glenboig and Graemeslea, Aberuthven.
arose in the year ended 30 June 2008 market conditions we have recognised the success of the in-house Sales Accreditation against profits made and taxed in the year need to develop and motivate our Programme and confirms the importance to ended 30 June 2007. remaining workforce to ensure we retain Redrow of high quality customer service.
their skills for the upturn.
It has therefore As a consequence of the difficult trading remained a key part of our strategy to Health and Safety continues to be at the conditions in the year and further net continue to invest in quality training and forefront of our business and we are realisable value provisions, the Group development for our employees.
delighted to report that Redrow has secured reported a post tax loss for the year ended a Gold Award for the fourth year running 30 June 2009.
The Groups tax rate for the We have again provided training from the Royal Society for the Prevention of year was 28.7% and the expected effective opportunities for all levels of employees.
Our total number of rate for 2009 10 is 28.0%.
A deferred tax Our in-house training facility completed accidents reduced by 75% with 12 injuries asset is carried in relation to the pre tax around 1,500 training days during 2008: 49 requiring reporting under the losses at 28.0% for use against future 2008 2009, involving 631 employees.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and profits and is considered to be fully The fourth year of our Redrow Site Manager Dangerous Occurrences Regulations recoverable.
further 5 Assistant Site Managers, bringing the total number of graduates to 36.
We do of course remain disappointed that Dividends during our restructuring we have had to say No dividends have been proposed in We are particularly pleased that Syd James, farewell to many colleagues who have respect of the financial year ended a successful Assistant Site Manager from made a positive contribution to Redrow.
We 30 June 2009 2008: 9.3p per share the 2007 programme has been promoted thank them for their past commitment and 18 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review Business review - Key performance indicators KPIs wish them success in future opportunities.
Financial We hope to re-employ as many of them as possible as market conditions improve.
Our KPI Relevance to Redrow How we measure it 2009 2008 remaining employees recognise the changed landscape of the industry and we Redrow regards growth in Earnings per 19.3p 28.8p Earnings per Profit attributable to ordinary equity have implemented a pay freeze for the vast Share as an important objective for our basic basic share EPS shareholders divided by the weighted shareholders majority of them.
average number of ordinary shares in 62.8p 86.3p issue during the period It is of course vital that we provide We monitor how effectively we use our 2.9% 10.3% Return on Operating profit pre-exceptional item, incentives to our employees to share in the capital base with the objective of capital adjusted for joint ventures, as a future success of our business and we will delivering ROCE in excess of our employed percentage of the average of opening continue to operate our SAYE Scheme comparable cost of capital ROCE and closing capital employed which is open to all employees.
Following pre-exceptional item shareholder approval we introduced an HM Revenue and Customs Approved Company Operating We regard this as an important measure of Operating profit as a percentage of 7.4% 13.0% Share Option Plan last year under which we margin the quality of our financial returns revenue awarded share options to Directors and Senior Managers within the business.
The level of forward sales provides a 1,147 1,189 Forward The number of homes reserved or measure of the activity in future periods sales exchanged at the end of the period that that is pre-sold are due to legally complete in the future Summary The future strategy of the business has We monitor how effective our operations 10.1m 19.0m Net cash Cash generated from operations after been clearly defined: Redrow is returning to have been in generating cash from operating deducting net interest and tax its historic strength in family housing built activities around a core range of housetypes.
We have re-designed our product and are currently rolling out the New Heritage From continuing operations pre-exceptional items.
Collection across our developments in order to launch across the Group from Non-Financial 1 January 2010.
We are replanning our owned land bank to increase the focus on KPI Relevance to Redrow How we measure it 2009 2008 family housing.
We will look for opportunities to expand our land portfolio at The land bank is the foundation for our Land The number of plots owned with a 12,500 14,900 appropriate financial returns in the new future business performance planning consent financial year and continue to keep our The number of plots controlled under 630 1,550 capital structure under review.
With the contract generally awaiting the grant of a gradual recovery of the economy and the satisfactory planning consent measures we have taken to set a new The forward land bank is the sum of plots 22,800 26,150 direction for our business we believe we are controlled, generally under option, or well placed to drive significant improvement owned without a planning consent being to our future financial returns.
promoted through the planning system We aim to build our homes well and Product The average number of reportable items 0.29 0.34 therefore monitor construction quality per NHBC inspection People Redrow looks to be regarded as an Number of staff leaving through 9.4% 22.0% employer of choice in the industry and resignation or dismissal, excluding therefore we monitor our staff turnover redundancy, as a proportion of total staff We take our responsibility for Health & A measurement of the accident 1 5 Safety very seriously and therefore monitor potential rate identified by Redrows potential and actual incidents Health & Safety team across the Group on inspecting sites We aim to provide our customers with a 89% 78% Customers The percentage of customers who are home they are proud of and to deliver satisfied with their overall purchase improving levels of customer service that experience including the quality of their enhance our reputation in the marketplace home 94% 83% The percentage of customers who would recommend Redrow to a friend 20 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate responsibility review Risk Description How we manage our risks We have not lost sight of our obligations as a The nature of the conditions within the UK Housing market Close monitoring of, and proactive management response housing market is fundamental to conditions to, lead indicators of the housing market responsible developer and we have maintained Redrows business performance Regional spread of operations diversifies risk to local markets impetus in key areas of our Environmental, The Group is debt funded and requires Liquidity and Bank facilities with appropriate covenants and headroom appropriate borrowing facilities funding for a range of market conditions Sustainability and Climate Change objectives during Regular contact and communication with relationship banks Regular profitability and cash flow projections this period of uncertainty.
Capital structure kept under review The failure to design and build a desirable Responding to Our product is kept under constant review to ensure it is product for our customers could lead to product changes appropriate for the market relative underperformance in our business in the housing The product mix on new sites is extensively considered by market management and if appropriate, adjusted to market conditions Design is an integral element of our business The impacts of the unprecedented A further important part of the package is guidance on simple energy saving measures Key supplier or The failure of a key supplier or Use of suppliers and subcontractors with strong track record conditions experienced in the UK housing the continued provision of support to our for both the office and the home and giving subcontractor subcontractor to perform due to financial and reputation industry over the past 18 months, are site based teams.
These toolbox talks are details of straightforward, cost effective failure failure or contraction of production Close monitoring of supplier and subcontractor performance clearly evident across all areas of our vital to ensure that the culture of waste actions, such as the provision of motion capability could disrupt Redrows ability to through six monthly assessment of performance and business.
management is effectively communicated sensors on lights, which have already been deliver homes on programme financial strength and embraced at all levels.
undertaken at our Head Office at St Davids Focus on cashflow and costbase and the Park.
This theme is continued with heating, The timing of future land purchases will be Timing of Close monitoring of market conditions by experienced necessary imposition of strict controls on These measures will build upon excellent again, for both office and home with tips influential in the Groups future financial procurement management team land purchase and work in progress, have results which were already being achieved, provided for more efficient temperature performance of land and Strong and knowledgeable land, planning and technical been reflected in markedly reduced site prior to our Group re-organisation, across control.
securing The inability to obtain detailed planning teams with good local knowledge activity.
This has been coupled with major our sites in England and Wales, where the planning consents on key sites may adversely Broad spread of developments going through the planning restructuring of the Group and, as a average monthly recycling rate was well in To assist in communicating the message a impact upon anticipated production system at any one time consequence, the performance excess of 74%, 4% ahead of the target we number of Thermo Wobblers cardboard Well prepared, high quality planning submissions which benchmarking and targets set last year, set ourselves last year and tonnage of thermometers were obtained from the address local concerns and demonstrate good design although useful as guides to progress, are waste per equivalent unit was down by 7%, Carbon Trust and distributed around offices now generally out of context with the scale 2% better than our target.
to increase staff awareness and enable The loss of key staff and or our failure to Attracting and Remuneration packages are benchmarked at local and and structure of the business as it currently them to monitor and control temperatures.
attract high quality employees will inhibit retaining staff national levels to ensure that they are competitive Office waste has not been overlooked and stands.
Redrows ability to achieve its business In-house training centre provides a central focus for training through our Green Team efforts, we have To identify further potential carbon savings, objectives activities across all disciplines Nevertheless, we have not lost sight of our recycling schemes in place with a carbon audit, funded by the Carbon Trust Structured training programmes including apprentice schemes obligations as a responsible developer and Greensource Solutions, covering mobile has recently been undertaken at our Head we have maintained impetus in key areas of phones, toner cartridges and inkjets.
This Office, covering energy management and A significant Health & Safety or Health & Safety Dedicated Health & Safety team operates across the Group our Environmental, Sustainability and year our recycling efforts have contributed reporting systems, energy performance and environmental incident or general Environmental to ensure appropriate standards are applied with regular on Climate Change objectives during this towards a sum of 36,878 raised for energy supply.
Practical suggestions arising deterioration in standards could put site inspections and audits period of uncertainty, refining our systems Greensource Solutions chosen charities, from this report will be considered for action people and or the environment at risk as Group has established an Environmental Management well as damaging Redrows reputation and our products, to enable improved which include the Childrens Hospice South in our regional offices too.
System and has introduced a site Environmental audit performance when activity returns to more West, Orca, St Peters Hospice and the process Other Green Team work has involved normal levels.
All staff receive appropriate training through our in-house tackling water consumption volumes.
programme Reducing Construction and Office Waste Segregation facilities are provided in offices Measures include the introduction of Hippo Discussion has taken place with our primary for staff, enabling the recycling of paper, Bags into WC cisterns, typically saving A significant fraud or uninsured loss could Fraud uninsured Systems, policies and procedures designed to segregate waste handling contractor, to develop a cardboard, newspapers, metal cans and around 1 litre flush and reduced flush damage the financial performance of the losses duties and minimise opportunity for fraud more comprehensive and refined waste plastic bottles.
business Regular management reporting and challenge handling model applicable across the Internal Audit reviews Energy and Water Awareness We recognise that monitoring of water Group.
Designed to assist in target setting, Regular review of insurance programme Green Team initiatives have also been usage to measure the savings being made monitoring and analysis of waste streams, instrumental in encouraging energy and and to target further reductions is important this model will provide an enhanced suite of Under funding of the Groups obligations Defined benefit The Groups defined benefit pension scheme is closed to water savings in our offices.
and data collection is occurring to assist management reports at site, subsidiary in respect of the defined benefit pension pension scheme all new entrants this focus.
company and Group levels and scheme Pension benefits for members are capped as regards Practical energy saving advice has been encompasses a strategy responding to future increases communicated to all our staff via email and Code for Sustainable Homes requirements postings on the Redrow intranet, providing Pension actuarial surplus of 9.9m as at 1 July 2008 and carbon footprinting demands.
22 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23
