1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Chairmans statement With the benefit of hindsight, mistakes were I intend to re-establish both elements within had reduced to 14,200 as a result of People made in the Groups land acquisition policy.
trading, was reduced by a further 8% to In what has been a tumultuous period for During 2005 very little land was purchased 13,100 plots, due to the re-planning.
the Company, I would like to express my as it was perceived at that time that the In recent years, the Company has moved This re-planning of sites is ongoing, with sincere gratitude to all the Redrow team for land market had peaked.
This proved not to away from its heritage in family housing some Local Authorities more supportive of their dedication and commitment to the be the case and management embarked on towards apartments and starter homes.
This team embraces a very broad a catch-up during 2006 and 2007, This has led to a reduction in the Groups feel it is appropriate to pursue this strategy.
group, ranging from our employees through resulting in a disproportionate element of average selling price, taking it from As a result of the re-planning exercise and to sub-contractors and suppliers.
During the land bank being bought at the peak of amongst the highest in the sector to land write-downs the Groups average plot this period we have lost many excellent the market.
Unfortunately the combination the lowest.
In the financial year ended cost now stands at 23,000.
When the members of the team through the of this policy and further falls in house 30 June 2009, 45% of our legal impact of residual In the City apartment restructuring programme and we hope that prices during the year, has resulted in completions were apartments and 5% from schemes, Debut product and social housing the stability we see emerging allows them further provisions being required in this the low average selling price Debut range.
to which we have allocated a nil land cost is to rejoin our industry very soon.
We are, however, Given the reduction in demand and balance taken into account, the average plot cost now in a position to move forward from an of product mix within our legal completions, increases to approximately 27,000.
Health and Safety has remained an appropriate base and assuming we the average selling price was 137,400 absolute priority for us during this downturn experience stability in the market, we do 2008: 156,900.
Our land teams are once again fully and as we start to increase construction we not foresee further net write-downs being engaged in considering new land need everyone across the organisation to required.
There remains a legacy of around 700 In opportunities.
At the present time, however, continue to support this important the City apartments or Debut range there is something of a stand-off in the land objective.
We were delighted to win a gold Steve Morgan Chairman With house prices having fallen by around product, which is either stock or where we market between vendors and buyers.
RoSPA for the fourth year running.
25% from peak, it is encouraging to see are committed to build, the majority of Some land owners are typically holding that the market has steadied over the last which we expect to be sold in the new back from selling land because of Outlook It is with mixed emotions that I write this Post exceptionals of 96.6m the pre tax six months.
The price adjustment has made financial year.
As a result, the average unrealistically high expectations, whereas The new financial year has started Chairmans Statement, my first since loss was 140.8m.
The exceptional charge new homes once again very affordable, selling price for the new financial year will land purchasers are looking for financial positively, with the total sales position returning to the Board.
On the one hand, of 96.6m reflects both the impact of the which has resulted in strong buyer demand.
once again be diluted by the inclusion of returns which embrace the risk premium comfortably ahead of the same period last I am delighted to be back at the helm of radical restructuring of the Group required Reservations during the first 10 weeks of this lower selling price product.
appropriate for the current market.
We recommenced construction Redrow, the Group I founded 35 years ago.
in response to market conditions and the the financial year are up 72% over the Nevertheless I expect the average selling confidence that house prices have generally across our sites in the last quarter On the other hand, it is intensely review undertaken of the carrying value of same period last year.
price for the current year to be somewhat stabilised spreads, this gap between the of our financial year and have stepped up disappointing to me to have to report the land and work in progress in our balance ahead of last year.
two should close and activity in the land the pace of build to ensure we have worst set of trading results in our sheet.
This latter element required Mortgage availability remains the biggest market will slowly recover.
appropriate stock levels to meet the Companys history.
I am determined to additional net realisable value provisions in single constraint to the housing market Redrows product in recent years has been autumn markets.
By the end of December ensure that this will not be repeated and the year of 96.5m, further details of which recovery, with down valuations by surveyors barely distinguishable from its competitors.
Board we expect to launch 12 new sites, which we that we will steer the business back to are provided in the Business review.
acting for the mortgage lenders being an When I returned I inherited in excess of On 19 August 2009 we appointed Alan had previously held back due to market delivering a performance consistent with ongoing problem.
Cancellation rates are 80 standard house types.
Working with our Jackson, Debbie Hewitt and Paul Hampden conditions.
being one of the leaders in the house Net debt of 214.6m Dec 2008: running at around 18%, with the majority of in-house design team the product range Smith to the Board as Non-Executive building industry.
269.1m: June 2008: 223.3m was in these cancellations occurring as a direct has been completely redesigned, reducing Directors.
Alan joins as Deputy Chairman We have taken extensive steps to refocus line with our objectives and well within our result of surveyors down valuations.
Whilst the core house types to just 32, with a and Senior Independent Non-Executive our owned land bank to meet our future Financial Results available committed facilities of 425m.
there has been some improvement in both strong focus on family housing.
I am delighted to have needs and to correctly assess its value in In the financial year ended 30 June 2009, Gearing at 30 June 2009 was 73% mortgage availability and valuation issues in range will be called The New Heritage strengthened our Board with these the current market.
We anticipate that we Group revenue reduced by 53.6% to Dec 2008: 73%: June 2008: 55% and recent weeks, these two factors remain the Collection, which, as the name suggests, appointments and look forward to working will need to invest carefully and strategically 301.8m 2008: 650.1m which was reflected the reduction in net assets to most significant obstacles to a recovery in will incorporate an historic architectural with them as we move the Group forward.
to enhance our land bank and we continue almost entirely attributable to the volume 293.5m June 2008: 404.6m resulting the market.
theme, yet with spacious open-plan to keep our capital structure under review and price reductions experienced during the from the reported loss.
We anticipate that interiors and a high specification designed In line with the announcement made at the to ensure that we are well placed to secure dramatic decline in the housing market.
we will return to generating positive Future Strategy for todays modern living.
The Redrow team time of my return to the Company, it is new land capable of generating improved Group legal completions of 2,113 homes operating cash flow in the year ahead, Having stepped down from the Board in is tremendously excited by the new range envisaged that a Chief Executive or Chief financial returns.
were 46% lower than the prior year funding the planned continued reduction in November 2000 and reduced my holding in and it is our intention to introduce it to our Operating Officer will be appointed during 2008: 3,925 and our average selling our debt levels by June 2010. the Company to around 6%, I re-built my developments during the autumn months, the course of the current financial year.
With the introduction of The New Heritage price showed a reduction of 12% to stake to 29.9% during 2008 and the early in readiness for a full launch in January Collection and our refocus on family 137,400 2008: 156,900.
Gross Background part of 2009 and approached the Company 2010.
During the year Neil Fitzsimmons stepped housing, we are confident that in time we margin declined from 18.5% to 1.8% Throughout 2008 and into the early part of to re-join the Board.
I returned to the down as Chief Executive and Alan Bowkett will re-establish Redrow as one of the principally as a consequence of the impact 2009 the house building industry was hit by Company on 23 March 2009, with a clear Land stepped down as Chairman.
Subsequent to market leaders in our sector.
of house price reductions and the slow rate a downturn unlike any other in recent focus upon the steps we needed to take.
In line with our shift in emphasis towards the year end, in August, Malcolm King, Bob of sales.
The pre tax loss from trading history.
The speed of the decline in sales My first objective has been to review two two storey family housing, a thorough Bennett and Denise Jagger, stepped down operations before exceptionals for the and prices required Redrow to take swift key elements of our business strategy, review of our land bank has been instigated to make way for the new Non-Executive period was 44.2m 2008: 65.5m profit, and dramatic action.
The business was which are critical to our future success with the intention of identifying how we Directors.
I would like to thank Neil, Alan, the first trading loss in Redrows history.
Our restructured, several regional offices were our product and our land bank.
Redrows could increase the proportion of traditional Malcolm, Bob and Denise for their past Steve Morgan immediate task as we move forward is to closed and the number of employees was historic success has been attributable to a product, moving away from apartments and efforts.
Chairman rebuild our margins and return to reduced from 1,321 at June 2007 to 652 great product, differentiated from its three storey homes.
in April 2009. competition, and excellence in land buying: this review, our current land bank, which 6 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7
