Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements, which have been Parent company financial statements prepared under the historic cost convention, report the consolidated In accordance with 2:402 of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent statements of income, cash flow and financial position of Reed company financial statements only contain an abridged profit Elsevier NV.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the and loss account.
financial statements are in millions of euros.
Combined financial statements As required by a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in financial statements are set out on pages 86 to 90. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the These include policies in relation to intangible assets.
Such assets International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which, due to their longevity, may be for periods in excess of five years.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as explained on page 165.
Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements presented of the combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated in pounds sterling on pages 82 to 122 form an integral part of statement of financial position as investments in joint ventures, net the notes to Reed Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier NV.
The primary combined financial statements and selected notes Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
are presented in euros on pages 123 to 137.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
Other As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses with assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less provision, those of Reed Elsevier PLC, described on page 56, the shareholders if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group, enjoying Foreign exchange translation substantially equivalent ordinary dividend and capital rights in the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate earnings and net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities The Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements are that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the presented incorporating Reed Elsevier NVs investments in rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange the Reed Elsevier combined businesses accounted for using differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The gains the equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the equalisation or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs 50% arrangement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC.
interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classified The arrangement lays down the distribution of dividends and as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
net assets in such a way that Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative equals 50%, with all settlements accruing to shareholders translation differences are recognised within the income statement from the equalisation arrangements taken directly to reserves.
Further detail is provided in note 1.
Taxation Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier NV The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the is equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus, other than in current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior year special circumstances, the UK tax credit received by certain Reed taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that are Elsevier PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally distributes recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures a higher proportion of the combined profit attributable than Reed is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV and is credited directly The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
Reed Elsevier NV the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or substantively can pay a nominal dividend on its R shares held by a subsidiary enacted, by the statement of financial position date.
of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch affiliates.
Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend payments by Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The settlements flowing from these arrangements are also taken directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
168 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier NV Group accounting policies continued Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
Movements in deferred tax are charged and credited in the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on page 89.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been considered on page 90 of the combined financial statements and are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 169
