Accounting policies The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are prepared Adjusted operating profits are also grossed up to exclude the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards equity share of taxes in joint ventures.
Adjusted operating cash flow IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the is measured after dividends from joint ventures and net capital International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The combined expenditure, but before payments in relation to exceptional financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, restructuring and acquisition related costs.
Reconciliations as explained on page 61. between reported and adjusted figures are provided in note 11.
The Reed Elsevier accounting policies under IFRS are set Foreign exchange translation out below.
The combined financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Additional information providing a translation into euros of the Basis of preparation primary Reed Elsevier combined financial statements and selected The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed notes is presented on pages 123 to 137.
Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate Elsevier combined financial statements the combined financial of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statements represent the combined interests of both sets of statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the differences arising are recorded in the income statement other than two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV where hedge accounting applies as set out below.
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at exchange In preparing the combined financial statements, subsidiaries rates prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Income of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are and expense items and cash flows of foreign operations are accounted for under the purchase method and investments in translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
Significant associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity individual items of income and expense and cash flows in foreign method.
All transactions and balances between the combined operations are translated at the rate prevailing on the date of businesses are eliminated.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate or joint are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are recognised within the income statement in the period.
are attributed to the net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, acquired.
This includes those adjustments made to bring Reed Elsevier uses derivative financial instruments, primarily forward accounting policies into line with those of the combined businesses.
contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the Details of Reed Elseviers accounting policies in respect of derivative combined financial statements up to or from the date that control financial instruments are set out below.
passes from or to the combined businesses.
Revenue Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the combined Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales less anticipated businesses are identified separately from combined shareholders returns on transactions completed by performance, excluding equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those customer sales taxes and sales between the combined businesses.
interests at the date of the original acquisition and the minority share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
Revenues are recognised for the various categories of turnover as follows: subscriptions on periodic despatch of subscribed product These financial statements form part of the statutory information or rateably over the period of the subscription where performance is to be provided by Reed Elsevier NV, but are not for a legal entity not measurable by despatch: circulation on despatch: advertising and do not include all the information required to be disclosed by on publication or over the period of online display: and exhibitions a company in its financial statements under the UK Companies Act on occurrence of the exhibition.
Additional information is given in the Annual Reports and Financial Statements of the parent companies Where sales consist of two or more independent components set out on pages 138 to 184.
A list of principal businesses is set out whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised on page 194. on each component as it is completed by performance, based on attribution of relative value.
In addition to the figures required to be reported by applicable accounting standards, adjusted profit and operating cash flow Employee benefits figures have been presented as additional performance measures.
The expense of defined benefit pension schemes and other postAdjusted figures are shown before amortisation and impairment of retirement employee benefits is determined using the projected unit acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring credit method and charged in the income statement as an operating and acquisition related costs, disposals and other non operating expense, based on actuarial assumptions reflecting market conditions items, related tax effects and movements in deferred taxation assets at the beginning of the financial year.
Actuarial gains and losses are and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise in the near term.
recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
86 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Combined financial statements Accounting policies continued Past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply benefits have vested, or, if not vested, on a straight line basis over in the period when the liability is expected to be settled or the asset the period until the benefits vest.
Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, Net pension obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes associates or joint ventures.
are included in the statement of financial position at the present value of scheme liabilities, less the fair value of scheme assets.
Movements in deferred tax are charged or credited in the income Where schemes are in surplus, ie assets exceed liabilities, the net statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited pension assets are separately included in the statement of financial directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised position.
Any net pension asset is limited to the extent that the asset in equity.
Deferred tax credits in respect of share based remuneration is recoverable through reductions in future contributions.
are recognised in equity to the extent that expected tax deductions exceed the related expense.
The expense of defined contribution pension schemes and other employee benefits is charged in the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase Share based remuneration consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible The fair value of share based remuneration is determined at assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase consideration the date of grant and recognised as an expense in the income representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions also includes statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking amounts corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised in account of the estimated number of shares that are expected respect of acquired intangible assets.
Market based performance criteria are taken into account when determining the fair value at the date of grant.
Non-market Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment based performance criteria are taken into account when estimating at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the number of shares expected to vest.
The fair value of share based the income statement and not subsequently reversed.
remuneration is determined by use of a binomial or Monte Carlo simulation model as appropriate.
All Reed Elseviers share based On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount remuneration is equity settled.
of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, Intangible assets construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination period of time to bring to use are capitalised.
All other interest are stated in the statement of financial position at their fair value as on borrowings is expensed as incurred.
The cost of issuing at the date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally borrowings is generally expensed over the period of borrowing generated intangible assets are stated in the statement of financial so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
position at the directly attributable cost of creation of the asset, less accumulated amortisation.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior year comprise: market related assets eg trade marks, imprints, brands : taxable profits, and the movements on deferred tax that are customer related assets eg subscription bases, customer lists, recognised in the income statement.
customer relationships : editorial content: software and systems eg application infrastructure, product delivery platforms, in-process The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using research and development : contract based assets eg publishing the applicable tax rates that have been enacted, or substantively rights, exhibition rights, supply contracts : and other intangible enacted, by the statement of financial position date.
Internally generated intangible assets typically comprise software and systems development where an identifiable asset Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the carrying is created that is probable to generate future economic benefits.
amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints determined and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
to have indefinite lives, are amortised systematically over their Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of intangible temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised assets with finite lives are as follows: market and customer related to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it is probable that assets 3 to 40 years: content, software and other acquired taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary intangible assets 3 to 20 years: and internally developed intangible differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised on assets 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints determined to have temporary differences arising in respect of goodwill that is not indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to impairment deductible for tax purposes.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 87 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Inventories and pre-publication costs Property, plant and equipment are stated in the statement of Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the lower of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, and estimated net depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, representing costs incurred long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up to a in the origination of content prior to publication, are expensed maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over the duration systematically reflecting the expected sales profile over the estimated of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other assets on a straight economic lives of the related products, generally up to five years.
line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: leasehold improvements shorter of life of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 Leases years: office furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: computer Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations similar systems, communication networks and equipment 3 to 7 years.
to those attaching to owned assets are classified as assets held under finance leases and capitalised within property, plant and Investments equipment or software and the corresponding liability to pay rentals Investments, other than investments in joint ventures and associates, is shown net of interest in the statement of financial position as are stated in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The capitalised value of the assets Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio are classified is depreciated on a straight line basis over the shorter of the periods as held for trading, with changes in fair value reported through the of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
All other investments are classified as available element of the lease payments is allocated so as to produce a for sale with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity constant periodic rate of charge.
until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a equity is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
All items straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental income from recognised in the income statement relating to investments, other operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term than investments in joint ventures and associates, are reported as of the relevant lease.
Cash and cash equivalents Available for sale investments and venture capital investments held Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted securities.
and other short term highly liquid investments and are held in the The fair value of listed securities is determined based on quoted statement of financial position at fair value.
market prices, and of unlisted securities on managements estimate of fair value based on standard valuation techniques, including Assets held for sale market comparisons and discounts of future cash flows, having Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their regard to maximising the use of observable inputs and adjusting current condition and for which a sales process has been initiated for risk.
Independent valuation experts are used as appropriate.
are classified as assets held for sale, and are carried at the lower of amortised cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for are not amortised or depreciated following their classification as held under the equity method and stated in the statement of financial for sale.
Liabilities of businesses held for sale are also separately position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in classified on the statement of financial position.
Reed Elseviers share of net assets, less any impairment in value.
Discontinued operations Impairment A discontinued operation is a component of the combined At each statement of financial position date, reviews are carried businesses that represents a separate major line of business out of the carrying amounts of tangible and intangible assets and or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of goodwill to determine whether there is any indication that those or is held for sale.
When an operation is classified as discontinued, assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication the comparative income statement and statement of cash flows exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use are re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from and fair value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order the start of the comparative period.
to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other Financial instruments assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash flows Financial instruments comprise investments other than investments of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Intangible in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, cash and cash assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least equivalents, payables and accruals, provisions, borrowings and annually and whenever there is any indication that the asset may derivative financial instruments.
Investments other than investments in joint ventures and associates If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit are classified as either held for trading or available for sale, as is estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net described above.
carrying amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement in administration and other expenses.
88 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Combined financial statements Accounting policies continued Trade receivables are carried in the statement of financial position Provisions at invoiced value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the ageing of trade a result of a past event, and it is probable that settlement of the receivables, experience and circumstance.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at Borrowings other than fixed rate borrowings in designated hedging the statement of financial position date.
relationships and for which the carrying value is adjusted to reflect changes in the fair value of the hedged risk, payables, accruals Shares held in treasury and provisions are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV that are at amortised cost.
repurchased by the respective parent companies and not cancelled are classified as shares held in treasury.
The consideration paid, Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest rate including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value of derivative from equity.
Shares of the parent companies that are purchased financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges by the Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee Benefit Trust are also of future cash flows are recognised net of tax directly in equity classified as shares held in treasury, with the cost recognised as in the hedge reserve.
If a hedged firm commitment or forecasted a deduction from equity.
transaction results in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, Critical judgements and key sources of estimation the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously uncertainty been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of The most significant accounting policies in determining the financial the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition condition and results of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised and those requiring the most subjective or complex judgement, in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, share based item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of hedges is remuneration, pensions, taxation and property provisioning.
The recognised immediately in the income statement.
carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually, the key areas of judgement being in relation to the Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedging forecast long term growth rates and the appropriate discount rates instruments are classified as held for trading and recorded in the to be applied to forecast cash flows.
The charge for share based statement of financial position at fair value, with changes in fair value remuneration is determined based on the number of awards that recognised in the income statement.
are expected to vest and the fair value of awards at the date of grant by use of binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models as appropriate, Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the fair which require judgements to be made regarding expected levels of value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are adjusted vesting, share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rates of return for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with a and expected option lives.
Key estimates in accounting for defined corresponding income or expense included in the income statement benefit pension schemes are determined in conjunction with within finance costs.
The offsetting gains or losses from remeasuring independent actuaries and include the life expectancy of members, the fair value of the related derivatives are also recognised in the expected salary and pension increases, inflation, the return on income statement within finance costs.
When the related derivative scheme assets and the rate at which future pension payments expires, is sold or terminated, or no longer qualifies for hedge are discounted.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax accounting, the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged uncertainties where it is considered probable that tax payments may borrowing is amortised in the income statement over the period arise.
Property provisions are determined based on managements to maturity of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
estimates of future sublease income.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts represent the replacement costs calculated using observable market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long term borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at observable market rates.
These instruments are accordingly classified as Level 2 in the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy.
Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is either retained in equity until the firm commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed in the income statement.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 89 Accounting policies continued Standards and amendments effective for the year Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective IFRS8 Operating Segments sets out requirements for disclosure New accounting standards and amendments and their expected of information about an entitys operating segments, its products impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of and services, the geographical areas in which it operates and its Reed Elsevier are set out below.
Adoption of this standard has not changed significantly the disclosure Amendments to IFRS3 Business Combinations effective for the of information in respect of Reed Elseviers operating segments.
The amendments introduce changes that will require future transaction related costs including professional fees Amendment to IAS23 Borrowing Costs removes the option to to be expensed and adjustments to contingent consideration to immediately recognise as an expense borrowing costs relating be recognised in income and will allow non-controlling interests to to assets requiring a substantial period of time to get ready for use be measured either at fair value or the proportionate share of net or sale and requires such costs to be capitalised.
Adoption of this identifiable assets.
standard has required a change of accounting policy on borrowing costs and has not led to any significant borrowing costs being Amendments to IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial capitalised in the year ended 31 December 2009.
Statements effective for the 2010 financial year.
The amendments introduce changes to the accounting for partial disposals of Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
Adoption of these introduces changes to the way in which movements in equity must amendments is not expected to significantly impact the be disclosed and requires an entity to disclose separately each measurement, presentation or disclosure of future disposals.
component of other comprehensive income not recognised in profit or loss.
The amendment also requires disclosure of the amount Amendment to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and of income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive Measurement effective for the 2010 financial year.
The amendment income as well as several other minor disclosure amendments.
clarifies the eligibility of hedge accounting for inflation and hedging with options.
Adoption of this amendment is not expected to have Amendment to IFRS2 Share Based Payment clarifies that a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure cancellations of share options, whether by the entity or holder, of financial instruments in the combined financial statements.
should be accounted for as an acceleration of the vesting period.
The amendment also restricts the definition of a vesting condition Amendments to IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation to a condition that includes an explicit or implicit requirement to effective for the 2010 financial year.
The amendment provides provide services.
Any other conditions are non-vesting conditions, relief to companies making rights issues in a currency other which have to be taken into account to determine the fair value of than their functional currency.
This amendment does not affect the equity instruments granted.
The amendment has not significantly Reed Elsevier as shares are not issued in currencies other than impacted the measurement, presentation or disclosure of share its functional currencies.
based remuneration in the combined financial statements.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2013 financial year, Amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires with earlier adoption permitted.
The standard replaces the existing financial instruments held at fair value to be disclosed according to classification and measurement requirements in IAS39 for financial a three tier hierarchy depending on the inputs used in their valuation.
assets by requiring entities to classify them as being measured Adoption of this amendment has resulted in minor changes to either at amortised cost or fair value depending on the business Reed Elseviers disclosures for financial instruments.
model and contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assets in the combined financial statements.
Additionally, a number of interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on Reed Elseviers accounting policies and reporting.
90 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
