Shareholder information Information for Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shareholders Shareholder services The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered by Equiniti Limited.
Enquiries concerning ordinary shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and notification of change of personal details should be referred to Equiniti Limited at the address shown on page 192.
Electronic communications Whilst hard copy shareholder communications continue to be available to those shareholders actively requesting them, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and its Articles of Association, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Reed Elsevier website as the main method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their details online at www.
co. uk, shareholders can be notified by email when shareholder communications are published on the website.
The Shareview website also enables shareholders to view details of their own shareholding or electronically Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that may be held The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the Reed Elsevier at shareholder meetings.
combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2009 are available on the Reed Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through Elsevier website, or from the registered offices of the respective CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy parent companies shown on page 192.
Additional financial appointment service for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting information is also available on the Reed Elsevier website, including by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements in euros, Interim and Full Year Results announcements, Interim Management Dividend mandates Statements and presentations.
Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment Interim results reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish interim and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment results in hard copy.
The interim results are available on the Reed date.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online at Elsevier website.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
Share price information Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over Stock Exchange.
30 countries, which enables shareholders to have their dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the Euronext nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees Stock Exchange in Amsterdam.
applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Dividend Reinvestment Plan Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Shareholders can choose to reinvest dividends by Receipts ADRs.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR Plan DRIP.
A DRIP application form can be obtained online at represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
co. uk dividends, or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 192.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier Share dealing service website, other online sources and the financial pages of many A telephone and internet dealing service is available through newspapers.
Reed Elsevier PLCs Registrar, which provides a simple way for UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to 8 For further information visit www.
You will need your shareholder www.
com account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
190 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Shareholder information Shareholder information continued Individual savings accounts ISA Shareholder Communications Channel for Reed Elsevier NV A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is shareholders available through Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from Reed Elsevier NV has entered into arrangements with Stichting www.
co. uk ISA, by writing to Equiniti at the Communicatiekanaal Aandeelhouders Shareholder Communication address shown on page 192, or by calling their ISA helpline Channel Trustee in the Netherlands, facilitating the communication on 0845 300 0430. with and between shareholders, particularly in connection with general shareholders meetings.
Under these arrangements, holders ShareGift of Reed Elsevier NV bearer shares whose shares are held in the The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation custody of a Dutch bank, and who have notified the intermediary scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value authority appointed for these purposes of their interest, will receive makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be written information from the company with a proxy form for their obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, or by representation at general shareholder meetings.
Reed Elsevier NV telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737. also uses the e-voting system of RBS, that allows its shareholders to vote electronically at general meetings of shareholders and Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation provides the shareholder that uses the system confirmation that the On 28 July 1986 each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 vote was cast.
nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p each.
On 2 May 1997 each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into Information for Reed Elsevier PLC and two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008 the ordinary Reed Elsevier NV ADR holders shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new 51 ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary is shares of 12.5p each held.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is 758205207 and its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents Capital gains tax four Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares on number is 758204200 and its trading symbol is ENL.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and share Elsevier NV ADR represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
consolidation referred to above, results in an equivalent mid-market 51 price of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 14 116p ADR shareholder services nominal value.
Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV ADRs should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the address shown Information for Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shareholders on page 192.
Shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of address and bank ADRs are converted into US dollars by the ADR Depositary.
accounts should be directed to the Company Secretary of Reed Elsevier NV, at the registered office address shown on page 192.
Annual Report on Form 20-F The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier combined Dividends businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is filed Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are declared and electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange paid in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will Commission.
A copy of Form 20-F is available on the Reed Elsevier receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank website, or from the ADR Depositary at the address shown on account which they have notified to the company.
Dividends on page 192. shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a bank or broker.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest dividends by purchasing additional shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. RBS.
Shareholders who wish to participate in the DRIP are required to instruct their bank or intermediary to apply for reinvestment of their dividend entitlement with RBS.
Consolidation of ordinary shares On 7 January 2008 the Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares of 0.06 each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of 0.07 each for every 67 ordinary shares of 0.06 held.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 191
