Group accounting policies Basis of preparation Taxation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared The tax expense represents the sum of the tax payable on the under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable current year taxable profits, adjustments in respect of prior year accounting standards.
They report the consolidated statements taxable profits and the movements on deferred tax that are of income, cash flow and financial position of Reed Elsevier PLC, recognised in the income statement.
Tax arising in joint ventures and have been prepared in accordance with International Financial is included in the share of results of joint ventures.
Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The tax payable on current year taxable profits is calculated using the applicable tax rate that has been enacted, or substantively The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going enacted, by the statement of financial position date.
concern basis, as explained on page 143.
Deferred tax is the tax arising on differences between the carrying Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the financial amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their statements are in millions of pounds.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier PLC Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 56. temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that, based on current forecasts, it is probable that Determination of profit taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier combined results differences can be utilised.
has been calculated on the basis of the 52.9% economic interest of the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders in the Reed Elsevier combined Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC Full provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special on the distribution of retained profits from foreign subsidiaries, circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK associates or joint ventures.
tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
In Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial statements, Movements in deferred tax are charged and credited in the income an adjustment is required to equalise the benefit of the tax credit statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised equalisation agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises in equity.
on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by 47.1% Critical judgements and key sources of estimation of the total amount of the tax credit.
uncertainty Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined statements are set out on page 89. financial statements are set out on pages 86 to 90.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Investments Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been of the combined businesses has been shown on the statement considered on page 90 of the combined financial statements and of financial position as investments in joint ventures, net of the are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC and its financial statements.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign exchange translation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the income statement.
The exchange gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative translation differences are recognised within the income statement in the period.
148 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
