com Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Shareholder information 20 years on Corporate directory Glossary Secretary and Registered Ofce Available workstations Tim Regan, Company Secretary The total number of workstations in the Group also termed Regus plc Socit Anonyme Inventory.
During the year, this is expressed as a weighted Registered Ofce: Registered Head Ofce: average.
At period ends the absolute number is used.
22 Grenville Street 26 Boulevard Royal BRIC economies St Helier L-2449 Luxembourg BRIC economies include Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Jersey JE4 8PX Centre Contribution Dear shareholder Gross profit comprising centre Revenues less direct Registered Number operating expenses but before administrative expenses.
Jersey Luxembourg 101523 R. C. S. B 141 159 EBITDA 2009 was the 20th anniversary of the opening of our first centre in Brussels.
In one way it seems like Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Registrars only yesterday but it truly was another age.
Europe was still divided by an Iron Curtain, a mobile phone was something you carried on your back or in a car and if youd said internet to anyone they would Equiniti Jersey Limited Enquiries probably have thought you were talking about shing.
PO Box 63 Client enquiries about Regus products or services.
11 12 Esplanade Throughout the dramatic upheavals of the 1990s and technological innovations of the dot.
com boom St Helier we have stayed true to our core value of helping organisations, and the people that make them, work Expansions Jersey whenever, wherever and however they want.
Working smarter is as true today as it was when we A general term which includes new business centres JE4 8PH opened that first centre.
established by Regus and acquired centres in the year.
Auditor We know this because, irrespective of the internal and external challenges we have faced, we have a Forward Order Book successful business which provides a much in demand service whose time, I rmly believe, has nally KPMG Audit S.. r. l. The future workstation revenue already contracted with come.
We are in the throes of a working revolution that is changing the way organisations function, the 9 alle Scheffer way people live, and the way we relate to our environment.
Increasingly, people arent going to work: clients at a point in time.
L-2520 Luxembourg work is coming to them.
Like for like Legal advisers to the It is now exactly a decade since Daniel Pink, former speech writer to Al Gore, wrote his book Free The financial performance from centres owned and operated Company as to English law Agent Nation, in which he contrasted the emerging lifestyle of the exible worker with that of the for a full 12 months prior to the start of the financial year which Slaughter and May traditional organisation man of the late 20th century.
Pink was one of the first to consider the ways therefore have a full year comparative.
One Bunhill Row that such lone wolves would have to be supported in order to link up with business and society London EC1Y 8YY meeting-places and networks both physical and virtual.
Mature business Operations owned for a full 12 month period prior to the start of But whereas Pink was concentrating on self-employed people, todays exible worker is just as likely Legal advisers to the to be employed, albeit in a way that is very different from the traditional employer employee the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative.
Company as to Luxembourg law relationship.
The difference today is that the power belongs not with the organisation or employer, but Noble & Scheidecker with the exible workers themselves.
As these and other factors, such as the scarceness of capital N11 economies Avocats la Cour and mainstreaming of environmental concerns begin to converge I become ever more confident and N11 economies include Egypt, Indonesia, South Korea, 398, route dEsch excited about our future than I have ever been in any of the last 20 years.
Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, Turkey and Vietnam.
L-1471 Luxembourg Where will we be in 2029?
Who can honestly know with any accuracy?
Personally Ive always found Occupancy Corporate Stockbrokers that the easiest way to predict the future is to invent it.
What I can be sure of is that over the next 20 Occupied workstations divided by available workstation years there will be more dramatic upheavals to come and events will continue to blindside us all, but Investec Bank plc expressed as a percentage.
however much the world changes and technologies develop people, and the organisations for which 2 Gresham Street they work, will always need the places to congregate and collaborate, to share thoughts and ideas, to London EC2V 7QP Occupied workstations work wherever, whenever and however.
And I know that Regus will be at the very forefront of providing these services.
Workstations which are in use by clients.
This is expressed Credit Suisse First Boston as a weighted average for the year.
One Cabot Square London E14 4QJ Organic growth Growth attributable to the mature portfolio and from new Reservations Mark business centres established by Regus.
87 or REVPAW 001 954 331 1647 Total Revenue per available workstations Revenue Available workstations.
com Total Revenue per occupied workstation.
WIPOW Workstation income per occupied workstation.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 thefutureofwork Regus plc 26 Boulevard Royal 20 L-2449 Luxembourg years on www.
