Notice of meeting 53 Notice is hereby given that the 36th annual general meeting of NOTES the Company will be held at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, 1.
The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Gloucestershire GL12 8JR on Thursday 15th October 2009 at Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those noon.
You will be asked to consider and pass the resolutions below.
shareholders registered in the register of members of the Resolution 6 will be proposed as a special resolution.
All other Company as at 6pm on 13th October 2009 shall be entitled to resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
attend or vote at the aforesaid annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Ordinary resolutions Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6pm 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and on 13th October 2009 shall be disregarded in determining the the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2009: rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
To re-elect as a director of the Company Sir David McMurtry, who 2.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a is retiring by rotation: proxy or proxies to exercise the members rights to attend and to 3.
To re-elect as a director of the Company D J Deer, who is retiring speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company and the appointment of a proxy will not preclude by rotation: a member from attending and voting at the meeting.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained in the proxy is enclosed for this purpose.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given 5.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to discretion as to how the votes the subject of those proxies are authorise the directors to determine their remuneration: cast, and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the voting rights in the Company already Special resolutions held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman having a notifiable 6.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: obligation under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised to necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 20p each in the Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation be purchased is 7,278,854: under the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, need not ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is make a separate notification to the Company and to the Financial an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market Services Authority.
quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London 4.
Copies of the executive directors service contracts and letters Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 10 business days of appointment of non-executive directors will be available for immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours 8.00am - 4.15pm and at the place of the iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share meeting from 11.30am until the meeting closes.
shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2010 and 31st December 2010 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
By order of the Board N Tang New Mills Secretary Wotton-under-Edge Gloucestershire 21st August 2009 GL12 8JR Annual report and accounts 2009
