24 Governance Senior management Senior management Peter Slator Bryan Kinsella Divisional Managing Director, Textiles and Washroom Services Chief Information Of cer Aged 49.
Appointed Divisional Managing Director in April 2009.
Formerly Senior Vice President Previously worked for 28 years with Unilever, having been Executive and Chief Information Of cer of the Society of International Chairman in Australasia and prior to that the Group Head of I. T. and Telecommunications and Aeronautics having previously held before that Managing Director of the Foods business in Japan.
board positions at Vertex part of United Utilities, the Computer Science Corporation and executive roles at ASDA Stuart Godman and International Computers.
Divisional Managing Director, City Link Peter Lloyd Aged 37.
Previously Sales and Divisional Managing Director, Facilities Services Marketing Director of City Link and formerly Target Express, which was acquired by Rentokil Initial plc in November 2006.
Joined in 1986 having sold his retail cleaning company Joined Target Express in 1997 after nine years with TNT Express.
Prior to this current role, appointed Managing Director of UK Cleaning in 2002.
Xuemei Bennink-Bai Divisional Managing Director, Asia Paci c Martin Sawkins Group HR Director Aged 43.
Formerly Managing Director of Unilever Food Solutions China and a member of the Unilever Aged 54.
Previously held positions as Group HR Director HomeServe plc, Group HR Director The AA Food Solutions Board for Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Prior Limited and HR Director Centrica Home and Road Services.
Prior to this she held a wide range of positions with Unilever in general to this held a number of senior positions in HR and operations in management, sales, project management and research in China, British Aerospace and United Biscuits.
Vietnam, the Netherlands and the UK.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the group and parent company financial statements in accordance records that are suf cient to show and explain the parent with applicable law and regulations.
companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the company financial statements for each financial year.
They have general responsibility for taking law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement Under company law the directors must not approve the financial that complies with that law and those regulations.
statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of of their pro t or loss for that period.
the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and In preparing each of the group and parent company financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements, the directors are required to: in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on consistently: page 23 con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the for the group financial statements, state whether they have been applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation for the parent company nan cial statements, state whether taken as a whole: and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject the directors report contained in the Governance section includes to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent a fair review of the development and performance of the company financial statements: and business and the position of the company and the undertakings prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
parent company will continue in business.
