Financial statements 45 Accounting policies Accounting policies Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the group and Basis of preparation its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in the associates.
compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Segment reporting Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union as at 31 December 2009.
Reporting segments re ect the internal management organisation and reporting structures.
Each segment is headed by a divisional The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under managing director who reports directly to the chief executive the historical cost convention, as modi ed by the revaluation of of cer and is a member of the company executive board responsible available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and for the review of group performance.
Operating businesses within liabilities including derivative instruments.
each segment report to segment divisional managing directors.
Consolidation Segmental revenue represents the total revenue of each individual business unit within a reporting segment and includes inter a Subsidiaries segment revenues.
Segmental pro t is the pro t measure used to Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities measure performance internally and is calculated as pro t before over which the group has the power to govern the financial and tax, interest, amortisation and impairment of intangibles other operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than computer software and items of a one-off nature adjusted than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of operating pro t APBITA.
potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another Segmental revenues and pro ts are shown at constant exchange entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which rates consistent with our internal reporting and review processes.
control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from Other segmental information is stated at actual exchange rates.
the date that control ceases.
Foreign currency translation The group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition a Functional and presentation currency is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identi able assets environment in which the entity operates the functional acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in business combination are measured initially at their fair values at sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of b Transactions and balances the groups share of the identi able net assets acquired is recorded Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from recognised directly in the income statement.
the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at reporting period end exchange rates of monetary assets and Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying net Any change in the parents controlling interest in a subsidiary that investment hedges.
Foreign exchange differences for nancing of does not result in a loss of control in buying or selling shares to investments which are considered quasi equity are reported in the minority is treated as a transaction with equity shareholders reserves.
Other foreign exchange differences are taken to the and is shown as a movement in the consolidated statement of income statement.
c Group companies b Associates The results and financial position of all the group entities that have Associates are all entities over which the group has signi cant a functional currency different from the presentation currency are in uence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding translated into the presentation currency as follows: of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting translated at the closing rate at the date of the balance sheet: and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated loss identi ed on acquisition.
at average exchange rates: and The groups share of its associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses is iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate recognised in the income statement and its share of post-acquisition component of equity.
movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
46 Financial statements Accounting policies Business combinations On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations other currency instruments designated as hedges of such are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
The cost of a business combination is the aggregate operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date entity and translated at period end exchange rates.
by recognising the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their Property, plant and equipment fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and of ces.
Provision asset, such as customer relationships, brands, patents and royalties, for depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal annual is recognised if it meets the fide nition of an intangible asset in IAS instalments of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold buildings classi ed as 38, Intangible Assets and its fair value can be measured reliably.
finance leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments over the The intangible assets identi ed in all acquisitions made since shorter of the lease term or estimated useful life of the leased asset.
1 January 1998 are goodwill, customer lists and relationships, No depreciation is charged on freehold land or xed assets under reacquired franchise rights and contract portfolios.
When properties are sold, the difference between in excess of net identi able assets acquired in respect of minority sale proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the interests in existing subsidiary undertakings is taken directly income statement.
All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost Intangible assets less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation on Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate and accumulated impairment losses, where applicable.
The main the difference between their cost and their residual values over categories of intangible assets are as follows: their estimated useful lives, as follows: 4 to 5 years Vehicles Intangible assets inde nite useful lives 3 to 10 years Plant, equipment including equipment for rental, Goodwill tropical plants and their containers on rental Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the net identi able assets 3 to 10 years Of ce equipment, furniture and ttings of the acquired subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and Goodwill in respect of business combinations made since 1 January amended as necessary.
Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment 1998 is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on the acquisition whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill in carrying amount of the xed asset may not be recoverable.
respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries made prior to January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount exceeds the accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses previously higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell or value-in-use.
Goodwill is allocated to cashFor the purposes of assessing value-in-use, assets are grouped at generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and the lowest levels for which there are separately identi able cash losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of ows cash-generating units and cash ow forecasts are made goodwill relating to the entity sold.
using assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved by management.
Intangible assets nite useful lives These cash ows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate Intangible assets with nite useful lives are initially measured at based on the weighted average cost of capital for the group, either cost or fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over adjusted for the particular risks of the cash-generating unit their useful economic lives, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The fair value attributable to intangible assets acquired through a business combination is determined by discounting the expected future cash ows to be generated from that asset at the risk adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the group.
The residual values of intangible assets are assumed to be nil.
Financial statements 47 Accounting policies Inventories The estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets are as follows: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Customer lists and relationships: 5 to 16 years Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
Brands and patents: 2 to 15 years The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises design Reacquired franchise rights: 3 to 5 years costs, raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related Computer software: 3 to 5 years production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated The following are the main categories of intangible assets: selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
a Customer lists and relationships Customer lists and portfolios acquired as part of a business Trade receivables combination are initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Separate Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and values are not attributed to internally generated customer lists subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective or relationships.
interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect b Brands and patents all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Brands and patents acquired as part of a business combination are The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Expenditure incurred to develop, Cash and cash equivalents maintain and renew brands and patents internally is recognised as an expense in the period incurred.
Separate values are not Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held attributed to internally generated brands and patents.
at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and subject to c Reacquired franchise rights insigni cant changes in value.
In the cash ow statement, cash Reacquired franchise rights acquired as part of a business and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts.
Bank combination in City Link represents the bene t to the group from overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities the right to operate in certain geographical regions.
These are on the balance sheet.
initially measured at fair value and amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining contractual period of the franchise agreements Share capital which terminate on 25 October 2010.
Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity.
Incremental costs directly d Computer software attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the speci c Where any group company purchases the companys equity share software and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
capital Treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs deducted from equity attributable to the companys equity holders are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where associated with the production of identi able and unique software such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration products controlled by the group, and that will probably generate received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction economic bene ts exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the software development, attributable to the companys equity holders.
employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are Borrowings amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised e Research and development cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction Research expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred.
costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income Costs incurred on development projects relating to the design and statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective testing of new or improved products are recognised as intangible interest method.
assets when it is probable that the project will be a success considering its commercial and technological feasibility and only Where fair value hedge accounting is applied, the carrying value if the cost can be measured reliably.
is adjusted for any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset Other development expenditure is recognised as an expense or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the group has a continuing right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Development costs previously recognised as an expense are not 12 months after the balance sheet date under both its committed recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development costs bank credit facility and Euro Medium Term Note programme.
that have been capitalised are amortised from the date the product is available for use on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected bene t. 48 Financial statements Accounting policies Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, and Deferred income tax curtailments are recognised as charges or credits against operating Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, pro t in the income statement.
Interest costs on plan liabilities and on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets the expected return on plan assets are recognised in finance costs.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor the taxable pro t or loss, it is not b fide ned contribution pension plans accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates The group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once the deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as liability is settled.
employee bene t expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which reduction in the future payments is available.
the temporary differences can be utilised.
c Other post-employment obligations Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising Some group companies provide post-employment healthcare on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the bene ts to their retirees.
The entitlement to these bene ts is timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The expected costs of these bene ts are accrued over the period Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is used for fide ned bene t pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity.
arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or credited to the consolidated statement Employee bene ts of comprehensive income.
a fide ned bene t pension obligations d Share-based compensation The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based world.
The principal scheme is the UK scheme, which has a number compensation plans.
The economic cost of awarding shares and of fide ned bene t sections, which are now closed to new entrants share options to employees is recognised as an expense in the other than the Initial No 2 section, accounting for 0.5% of the total income statement equivalent to the fair value of the bene t schemes liabilities, which remains open and a fide ned contribution awarded.
The fair value is determined by reference to option pricing section.
The fide ned bene t scheme is funded through payments models, principally Monte Carlo and adjusted Black-Scholes models.
to a trustee-administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial The charge is recognised in the income statement over the vesting calculations.
A number of much smaller fide ned bene t and fide ned period of the award.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises contribution schemes operate elsewhere which are also funded its estimate of the number of options that are expected to become through payments to trustee-administered funds or insurance exercisable.
Any revision to the original estimates is re ected in the companies.
A fide ned bene t plan is a pension plan that fide fines income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity an amount of pension bene t that an employee will receive on immediately to the extent it relates to past service and the retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, remainder over the rest of the vesting period.
years of service and compensation.
A fide ned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays xed contributions into The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction a separate entity.
costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans is the present value of the fide ned e Termination bene ts bene t obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of Termination benets are payable when an employment is plan assets.
The fide ned bene t obligation is calculated annually terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these The present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is determined benets.
The group recognises termination benets when it is by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination bene ts as maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The group will recognise a pension surplus as an asset where there Benets falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet is an unconditional right to a refund or where the group has date are discounted to present value.
suf cient scope to reduce future pension contributions.
Financial statements 49 Accounting policies For non-contract-based business, revenue represents the value of f Pro t-sharing and bonus plans goods delivered or services performed.
For contract-based business, The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and revenue represents the sales value of work carried out for customers pro t-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration during the period.
Contract income is recognised in accounting the probability of certain performance criteria being achieved.
periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
For A provision is recognised where a contractual obligation exists or long-term contracts involving the installation of equipment, where past practice indicates that there is a constructive obligation revenue is recognised using the percentage completion method to make such payments in the future.
and represents the sales value of work executed during the period.
g Holiday pay Paid holidays are regarded as an employee bene t and as such b Rental income are charged to the income statement as the bene ts are earned.
Rental assets such as tropical plants, washroom equipment, An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to re ect the fair garments, linen, security equipment, etc which are owned by group value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
entities or where at least substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment are retained by group entities are Provisions capitalised as xed assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Vacant property, environmental, self-insurance and other provisions All rental income received or receivable in respect of rental assets are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive is accounted for on an operating lease basis.
Income from the obligation as a result of past events and it is probable that an rental of these assets is credited to revenue on a strict timeout ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and apportioned basis.
if this amount is capable of being reliably estimated.
If such an obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classi ed as a contingent liability.
c Franchise income Franchise income is recognised as services are provided or Vacant property provision is made in respect of vacant and partly continuing rights granted by the agreement are used.
sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
d Interest income Environmental provision is made for all known liabilities to Interest income is recognised on a time-apportioned basis using the remediate contaminated land on the basis of managements best effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the group estimate of the costs of these liabilities.
Self-insurance provision reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the is made for all claims incurred as at the balance sheet date whether estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective noti ed or not based on actuarial assessments of the likely interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the amounts of these liabilities.
Other provisions are made for all other discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is known liabilities that exist at the year end based on managements recognised either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as best estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.
are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood Taxation that an out ow will be required in settlement is determined by The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
considering the class of obligations as a whole.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
In this case the tax amounts are calculated on the present value of the expenditures is also recognised in equity.
expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax is calculated using forward market interest rates, as measured at laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for the countries where the companys subsidiaries and associates risks already re ected in future cash ow estimates.
operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations Revenue recognition in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
Revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of of value-added tax and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates and amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
discounts and after eliminating sales within the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has a Service revenue substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classi ed as Revenue excludes VAT and other similar sales-based taxes, rebates finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception and discounts and represents the amounts receivable for services at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present rendered and goods sold outside the group.
value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
50 Financial statements Accounting policies c Available-for-sale financial assets The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either included in other payables.
The interest element of the finance cost designated in this category or not classi ed in any of the other is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and of the balance sheet date.
equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Available-for-sale investments are fair valued and changes to Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of market values are recognised in equity.
On subsequent disposal ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses, previously leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any recognised in equity, are recognised in the income statement incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income as gains and losses from investment securities.
Loans and statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
receivables and held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, subject Dividend distribution to impairment.
Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
In the case of equity securities classi ed as Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
available-for-sale, a signi cant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the Financial instruments securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for availablefor-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and a party to such provisions.
recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed Financial assets through the income statement.
The group classi es its investments in the following categories: Financial liabilities financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale All financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the financial assets.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for effective interest rate method except for derivatives, which are which the investments were acquired.
Management determines classi ed as held for trading except where they qualify for hedge the classi cation of its investments at initial recognition and accounting and are held at fair value.
re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
The group Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective accruals, vacant property provisions, deferred consideration evidence that financial assets are impaired.
All financial assets are held at amortised cost except for derivatives, which are classi ed as held for trading unless in a hedging Accounting for derivative financial instruments relationship and certain assets classi ed as available-for-sale, and hedging activities which are held at fair value.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement re-measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on designated as hedges.
Assets are classi ed as current if they whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, are either held for trading or are expected to be realised within if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The group designates 12 months of the balance sheet date.
certain derivatives as either 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities, 2 hedges of net investments b Loans and receivables in foreign operations or 3 cash ow hedges.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the They arise when the group provides money, goods or services relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater various hedge transactions.
The group also documents its than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
These are classi ed as assessment, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis, of non-current assets.
Loans and receivables include trade and other whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are receivables and cash and other equivalents.
highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
Financial statements 51 Accounting policies Critical accounting estimates and assumptions a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, on historical experience and other factors, including expectations together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
b Net investment hedge The group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective The resulting accounting estimates will, by fide nition, seldom equal portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is discussed below.
a Estimated impairment of goodwill c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated earlier Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not under intangible assets goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use income statement.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that have been formally approved by management.
d Cash ow hedge The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating b Valuation of acquired intangible assets to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
Acquisitions may result in customer relationships, brands and Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
reacquired franchise rights being recognised.
These are valued using The gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred the excess earnings and relief from royalty methods.
In applying to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash ows affect the consolidated income statement.
these methodologies certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash ows.
Discontinued operations c Provision for impairment of trade receivables A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of either been disposed of, or that is classi ed as held for sale, which management may be impaired.
Within each of the businesses, represents a separate major line of business or geographical area assessment is made locally of the recoverability of accounts of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose receivable and the creditworthiness of the customer.
Determining of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
the recoverability of an account involves estimation as to the likely financial condition of the customer and their ability to subsequently Fair value estimation make payment.
The fair value of any financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The d Income taxes quoted market price used for financial assets held by the group The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for Signi cant judgement is required in determining the worldwide financial liabilities is the current ask price.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are during the ordinary course of business.
The group recognises used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of interest rate and of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially currency swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred future cash ows.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are e Provision for vacant property and environmental restoration not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide techniques.
The group uses a variety of methods and makes provision for vacant property and environmental restoration.
assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each Vacant property and environmental restoration tend to be longbalance sheet date.
term in nature and the required use of an appropriate market The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade discount rate and forecast future utilisation based upon receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair managements best estimate determines the level of provision values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes required at the balance sheet date.
The phasing and actual cash is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the spend may be different from the original forecast utilisation spend.
current market interest rate that is available to the group for similar financial instruments.
52 Financial statements Accounting policies f Retirement bene ts fide ned bene t schemes are reappraised annually by independent actuaries based upon actuarial assumptions.
Signi cant judgement is required in determining these actuarial assumptions.
Refer to note 24 for the principal assumptions used for the Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom.
g Self-insurance The group operates captive insurance companies in the UK and US.
These companies provide reinsurance exclusively to certain companies within the group.
Provision is made based on actuarial assessment of the liabilities arising from the insurance coverage provided.
The actuarial assessment of the reserve for future claims necessarily includes estimates as to the likely trend of future claims costs and as to the emergence of further claims subsequent to the year end.
An actuarial review of claims is performed annually.
To the extent that actual claims differ from those projected, the provisions could vary signi cantly.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards that are not yet effective The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2009 and have not been early adopted: IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations and consequential amendments to IAS 27, Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28, Investments in associates and IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some signi cant changes.
The group will apply IFRS 3 revised to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
A number of other standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted.
These are not expected to have a signi cant impact on the group.
