Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 27 December 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in its associate.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
b Going concern basis The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and further comments on going concern are set out in the report of the Directors on pages 21 to 24. c Basis of preparation The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Change in accounting policies In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly viewed by the Chief Executive to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
Following consideration of the operating segments of the Group, two segments, Leisure and Concessions, have been identified and for the purposes of IFRS, the performance measure has been identified as operating profit.
Both segments derive revenue from the operation of restaurants and pub restaurants but are distinguishable on the basis of a combination of factors including location, customers, allocation of resources, management reporting and new site identification.
There has been no change in segments following the adoption of IFRS 8 and there has been no material change to the allocation of assets between the operating segments since the year end.
IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement, and a statement of comprehensive income.
As a result, the financial statements now include a consolidated statement of comprehensive income and a consolidated statement of changes in equity showing changes in each component of equity for each year presented.
These changes in accounting policies have not resulted in any prior year restatements and consequently, no third balance sheet has been presented.
40 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Future accounting policies At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and guidance relevant to the Group were in issue but not yet effective.
In some cases these standards and guidance had not been endorsed by the European Union: IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised 2008 Investments in Associates IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for the treatment of the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates when IFRS 3 revised 2008, IAS 27 revised 2008 and IAS 28 revised 2008 come into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009. d Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account, regardless of managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
e Foreign currency Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities are taken directly to reserves.
f Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 41 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued g Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
The owner-occupied property excluding land element acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for as described in accounting policy s. Subsequent costs The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold land Indefinite Freehold buildings 50 years Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or 50 years, whichever is lower Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years Motor vehicles 4 years Computer equipment 3-5 years h Intangible assets Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is formally tested bi-annually for impairment see accounting policy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
i Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less impairment losses see accounting policy l. j Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
42 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements l Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each cash generating unit is compared to its estimated value in use.
Value in use calculations are based on discounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between 3 and 50 years.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and are not subsequently reversed.
m Share-based payment transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company and all options are equity settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
n Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
o Deferred and current tax Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that are enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
p Pensions The Group makes contributions for selected employees into defined contribution pension plans and these contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
The Group does not operate any defined benefit plans.
q Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
r Revenue Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for services and goods provided excluding value added tax and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 43 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued s Expenses i Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term as a reduction in rental expense.
ii Finance lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
iii Pre-opening expenses Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the date of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Promotional and training costs are written off to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
iv Borrowing costs Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread over the term of the loan.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
t Dividend policy In accordance with IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, and are recognised in the financial statements when they have received approval by shareholders.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation and uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies as described above, management has made a number of judgements and estimations of which the following are the most significant.
a Impairment of carrying value of associate The investment in Living Ventures Restaurants Group Limited and the loan note of 10.4m receivable from a subsidiary of that company were fully provided against in the years ended 30 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Following a review of the trading performance of the company, the Directors have concluded that this treatment is appropriate and no adjustment has been made in either the current or the previous year.
Further details are provided in note 13. b Impairment of goodwill The Group formally determines whether goodwill is impaired on a bi-annual basis.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of the assets to which goodwill is ascribed to.
Estimating the value-in-use requires the Group to make an estimate of the future cash flows from those assets and to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
No impairment of goodwill is required in the year ended 27 December 2009.
44 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
