Shareholder information Shareholder information elect to receive dividends in Australian dollars Dividends Market listings and share prices and shareholders of RioTinto Limited can Both Companies have paid dividends on The prices of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto elect to receive dividends in sterling.
their shares every year since incorporation Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs are in 1962.
The rights of RioTinto shareholders available during the day on the Rio Tinto and 2009 dividends to receive dividends are explained under the other websites.
On announcing the US$14.8 billion net rights description of the Dual Listed Companies issues on 5 June 2009, the directors announced RioTinto plc Structure on page 232. that an interim dividend would not be paid for The principal market for RioTinto plc shares 2009.
The 2009 fi final dividend of 45 US cents Dividend policy is the London Stock Exchange LSE, the per share was declared by the directors on shares trade through the Stock Exchange The aim of RioTintos progressive dividend 11 February 2010 and the applicable translation Electronic Trading Service SETS system.
policy is to increase the US dollar value of rate was US$1.5606 to the pound sterling and ordinary dividends over time.
The rate of Central to the SETS system is the electronic US$0.87285 to the Australian dollar.
the total annual dividend, in US dollars, is order book on which an LSE member fi rm determined taking into account the results for Final dividends of 28.84 pence or 51.56 can post buy and sell orders, either on its own the past year and the outlook for the current Australian cents per share and 180 US cents behalf or for its clients.
Buy and sell orders are year.
Under RioTintos dividend policy, the per RioTinto plc ADR each representing four executed against each other automatically in interim dividend is set at one half of the shares will be paid on 1 April 2010. strict price, then size, priority.
The order book total ordinary dividend for the previous year operates from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm daily.
From From 2010, the Group is committed to a and the fi final ordinary dividend is expected 7.50 am to 8.00 am orders may be added to, progressive dividend policy over the longer to be at least equal to the previous interim or deleted from the book, but execution does term.
The charts below set out the amounts of dividend.
This policy was suspended in not occur.
At 8.00 am the market opens by interim, fi final and special cash dividends paid 2009 due to the recapitalisation of the means of an uncrossing algorithm which or payable on each share or ADR in respect of balance sheet.
calculates the greatest volume of trades each fi financial year, but before deduction of on the book which can be executed, then any withholding tax.
Dividend determination matches the orders, leaving unexecuted The majority of the Groups sales are These have been restated for the impact of orders on the book at the start of trading.
transacted in US dollars, making this the the rights issue.
All orders placed on the order book are fi rm most reliable measure for the Groups global Dividend reinvestment plan DRP and are for standard three day settlement.
It is RioTintos main While the order book is vital to all market reporting currency and consequently the RioTinto offers a DRP to registered participants, orders are anonymous, with the natural currency for dividend determination.
shareholders, which provides the opportunity counterparties being revealed to each other Dividends determined in US dollars are to use cash dividends to purchase RioTinto only after execution of the trade.
translated at exchange rates prevailing two shares in the market free of commission.
days prior to the announcement and are then Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be declared payable in sterling by RioTinto plc extended to shareholders in the US, Canada and in Australian dollars by RioTinto Limited.
On request, shareholders of RioTinto plc can 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 restated restated restated restated Rio Tinto Group US cents per share Interim 55.61 42.53 32.73 31.50 Final 45.00 55.61 68.70 52.34 33.96 Special 90.00 Total 45.00 111.22 111.23 85.07 155.46 RioTinto plc UK pence per share Interim 29.64 20.93 17.53 17.80 Final 28.84 37.85 35.27 26.69 19.11 Special 50.64 Total 28.84 67.49 56.20 44.22 87.55 RioTinto Limited Australian cents per share Interim 63.25 49.64 42.94 41.37 Final 51.56 82.97 76.08 67.75 44.89 Special 118.98 Total 51.56 146.22 125.72 110.69 205.24 RioTinto plc US cents per ADR Interim 222.44 170.12 130.92 126.00 Final 180.00 222.44 274.80 209.36 135.84 Special 360.00 Total 180.00 444.88 444.92 340.28 621.84 230 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Shareholder information Use of the order book is not mandatory but 90,316,380 RioTinto plc shares were Of these holders, 298 had registered addresses all trades, regardless of size, executed over registered in the name of a custodian account in the US, representing approximately 0.03 the SETS system are published immediately.
in London which represented 5.92 per cent of per cent of the total number of RioTinto The only exception to this is where a Worked RioTinto plc shares issued and outstanding.
Limited shares issued and outstanding as of Principal Agreement WPA is entered into These shares were represented by 22,579,095 such date.
In addition, nominee accounts of for trades greater than eight times Normal RioTinto plc ADRs held of record by 390 record with registered addresses other than in Market Size NMS.
RioTinto plc has an NMS ADR holders.
In addition, certain accounts of the US may hold RioTinto Limited shares, in of 100,000 shares.
record with registered addresses other than whole or in part, benefi cially for US persons.
in the US hold shares, in whole or in part, Publication of trades entered under a WPA is Investment warning benefi cially for US persons.
delayed until the earlier of 80 per cent of the risk position assumed by the member fi rm The following table shows share prices for taking on the trade being unwound or the ADR holders the period indicated, the reported high end of the business day.
and low middle market quotations, which ADR holders may instruct JPMorgan as to how represent an average of bid and asked prices, the shares represented by their ADRs should RioTinto plc has a sponsored American for RioTinto plcs shares on the LSE based on be voted.
Depositary Receipt ADR facility with the LSE Daily Offi cial List, the highest and JPMorgan Chase Bank NA JPMorgan under ADR holders can receive the Annual report lowest sale prices of the RioTinto plc ADRs as a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988, on request.
reported on the NYSE composite tape and the as amended on 11 June 1990, as further RioTinto is subject to the US Securities high and low closing sale prices of RioTinto amended and restated on 15 February 1999 and Exchange Commission SEC reporting Limited shares based upon information and as further amended and restated on requirements for foreign companies.
A Form provided by the ASX.
There is no established 18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became 20-F, which corresponds with the Form 10-K trading market in the US for RioTinto RioTinto plcs depository.
The ADRs evidence in US public companies, will be fi led with the Limiteds shares.
RioTinto plc American Depositary Shares SEC.
RioTintos Form 20-F and other fi lings ADS, each representing four ordinary Past performance of shares is not necessarily can be viewed on the RioTinto website as shares.
The shares are registered with the US a guide to future performance.
The value well as the SEC website at www.
gov Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, of shares and investments and the income are listed on the New York Stock Exchange RioTinto Limited derived from them can go down as well as up, NYSE and are traded under the symbol RTP.
and investors may not get back the amount RioTinto Limited shares are listed on the RioTinto plc shares are also listed on Euronext.
The ASX is the principal trading market As at 18 February 2010, there were 49,536 Exchange controls and foreign for RioTinto Limited shares.
The ASX is a holders of record of RioTinto plcs shares.
Of investment national stock exchange operating in the these holders, 328 had registered addresses in capital city of each Australian State with an the US and held a total of 310,454 RioTinto RioTinto plc automated trading system.
plc shares, representing 0.02 per cent of the There are no UK foreign exchange controls or total number of RioTinto plc shares issued As at 18 February 2010, there were 186,008 other restrictions on the import or export of and outstanding as at such date.
In addition, holders of record of RioTinto Limited shares.
com 231 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued resident holders of RioTinto plc shares or that shareholders of both Companies in substantially of both as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions affect the conduct of RioTinto plcs operations.
the same position as if they held shares in a as described under Voting rights, and it is The Bank of England, however, administers single enterprise owning all of the assets of both a requirement that a person can only be a fi financial sanctions against specifi ed targets Companies.
As a condition of its approval of director of one Company if that person is related to certain regimes.
There are no the DLC merger, the Australian Government also a director of the other Company.
So, restrictions under RioTinto plcs articles of required RioTinto plc to reduce its shareholding for example, if a person was removed as a association or under UK law that limit the right in RioTinto Limited to 39 per cent by the end of director of RioTinto plc, he or she would also of non resident owners to hold or vote RioTinto 2005.
Consistent with the commitments made cease to be a director of RioTinto Limited.
to the Australian Government in 1995, the Dividend rights RioTinto plc shareholding in RioTinto Limited RioTinto Limited has been reduced over time and currently stands The Sharing Agreement provides for Under current Australian legislation, the at 28.2 per cent.
dividends paid on RioTinto plc and RioTinto Reserve Bank of Australia does not restrict Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash Following the approval of the DLC merger, the import and export of funds and no basis, that is without taking into account both Companies entered into a DLC Merger permission is required for the movement any associated tax credits.
Dividends are Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement of funds into or out of Australia, except determined in US dollars and are then, through which each Company agreed to that restrictions apply to certain fi financial except for ADR holders, translated and ensure that the businesses of RioTinto plc transactions relating to specifi ed individuals paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The and RioTinto Limited are managed on a and entities associated with certain regimes.
Companies are also required to announce and unifi ed basis, to ensure that the boards of The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade pay their dividends and other distributions as directors of each Company are the same, has responsibility for the administration of close in time to each other as possible.
and to give effect to certain arrangements restrictions relating to terrorists and their designed to provide shareholders of each In the unlikely event that one Company did sponsors, and the former Iraqi regime.
Company with a common economic interest not have suffi cient distributable reserves to RioTinto Limited may be required to in the combined enterprise.
pay the equalised dividend or the equalised deduct withholding tax from foreign capital distribution, it would be entitled to In order to achieve this third objective, the remittances of dividends, to the extent that receive a top up payment from the other Sharing Agreement provided for the ratio of they are unfranked, and from payments of Company.
The top up payment could be made dividend, voting and capital distribution rights interest.
There are no restrictions under the as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, or attached to each RioTinto plc share and to constitution of RioTinto Limited that limit by way of a contractual payment.
each RioTinto Limited share to be fi xed in the right of non residents to hold or vote If the payment of an equalised dividend an Equalisation Ratio which has remained RioTinto Limited shares.
would contravene the law applicable to one unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has However acquisitions of interests in shares, of the Companies, then they may depart from provided for this ratio to be revised in special voting power or certain other equity the Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such circumstances where, for example, certain instruments in Australian companies by foreign a departure occur, then the relevant Company modifi cations are made to the share capital interests are subject to review and approval will put aside reserves to be held for payment of one Company, such as rights issues, bonus by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of on the relevant shares at a later date.
issues, share splits and share consolidations, Australia under the Foreign Acquisitions and but not to the share capital of the other.
RioTinto shareholders have no direct rights to Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
The Outside these specifi ed circumstances, the enforce the dividend equalisation provisions Takeovers Act applies to any acquisition of 15 Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the of the Sharing Agreement.
per cent or more of the outstanding shares, of approval of shareholders under the Class Rights or voting power in, an Australian company The DLC Dividend Share can also be utilised Action approval procedure described under or to any transaction that results in one non to provide the Group with fl exibility for Voting rights.
In addition, any adjustments are resident, or a group of associated non residents, internal funds management by allowing required to be confi rmed by the auditors.
controlling 15 per cent or more of the shares of dividends to be paid between the two parts of or voting power in, an Australian company.
The One consequence of the DLC merger is that the Group.
Such dividend payments are of no Takeovers Act also applies to any transaction RioTinto is subject to a wide range of laws, economic signifi cance to the shareholders of which results in a group of non associated non rules and regulatory review across multiple either Company, as they will have no effect on residents controlling 40 per cent or more of jurisdictions.
Where these rules differ the Groups overall resources.
the shares of or voting power in, an Australian RioTinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the company.
Persons who are proposing such Voting rights strictest applicable level.
acquisitions or transactions are required to In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides Consistent with the creation of a single notify the Treasurer of their intention.
The for the public shareholders of RioTinto combined enterprise under the DLC merger, Treasurer has the power to order divestment in plc and RioTinto Limited to vote as a joint directors of each Company act in the best cases where such acquisitions or transactions electorate on all matters which affect interests of RioTinto as a whole.
The Takeovers Act does shareholders of both Companies in similar matters may involve a confl ict of interests not affect the rights of owners whose interests ways.
These are referred to as Joint Decisions.
between the shareholders of each Company are held in compliance with the legislation.
Such Joint Decisions include the creation of they must be approved under the Class Rights new classes of share capital, the appointment Action approval procedure.
Dual listed companies structure or removal of directors and auditors and the In 1995, RioTinto shareholders approved the To ensure that the boards of both Companies receiving of annual fi financial statements.
Joint terms of the dual listed companies merger the are identical, resolutions to appoint or Decisions are voted on a poll.
DLC merger which was designed to place the remove directors must be put to shareholders 232 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Shareholder information The Sharing Agreement also provides for the Following the Companies general meetings Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the protection of the public shareholders of each the overall results of the voting on Joint public shareholders of both Companies Company by treating the shares issued by Decisions and the results of voting on have equivalent rights to the assets of the each Company as if they were separate classes separate decisions will be announced to the combined Group on a per share basis, taking of shares issued by a single company.
So stock exchanges, published on the RioTinto account of the Equalisation Ratio.
decisions that do not affect the shareholders website and announced to the media in the The Sharing Agreement does not grant any of both Companies equally require the UK and Australia.
enforceable rights to the shareholders of either separate approval of the shareholders of both At a RioTinto plc shareholders meeting at Company upon liquidation of a Company.
Matters requiring this approval which a Joint Decision will be considered, procedure are referred to as Class Rights Limitations on ownership of shares and each RioTinto plc share will carry one vote Actions and are voted on a poll.
merger obligations and the holder of its Special Voting Share will Thus, the interests of the shareholders of each have one vote for each vote cast by the public The laws and regulations of the UK and Company are protected against decisions shareholders of RioTinto Limited.
The holder Australia impose restrictions and obligations of the Special Voting Share is required to vote which affect them and the shareholders in the on persons who control interests in public strictly and only in accordance with the votes other Company differently, by requiring their quoted companies in excess of defi ned cast by public shareholders for and against separate approval.
For example, fundamental thresholds that, under certain circumstances, elements of the DLC merger cannot be changed the equivalent resolution at the parallel include obligations to make a public offer for unless approved by shareholders under the RioTinto Limited shareholders meeting.
all of the outstanding issued shares of the Class Rights Action approval procedure.
The threshold applicable The holders of RioTinto Limited ordinary to RioTinto plc under UK law and regulations Exceptions to these principles can arise in shares do not actually hold any voting shares is 30 per cent and to RioTinto Limited under situations such as where legislation requires in RioTinto plc by virtue of their holding in Australian law and regulations is 20 per cent.
the separate approval of a decision by the RioTinto Limited and cannot enforce the appropriate majority of shareholders in one voting arrangements relating to the Special As part of the DLC merger, the articles Voting Share.
Company and where approval of the matter of association of RioTinto plc and the by shareholders of the other Company is constitution of RioTinto Limited were At a RioTinto Limited shareholders meeting not required.
amended with the intention of extending at which a Joint Decision will be considered, these laws and regulations to the combined Where a matter has been expressly each RioTinto Limited share will carry one enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that categorised as either a Joint Decision or a vote and, together with the RioTinto Limited a person cannot exercise control over one Class Rights Action, the directors do not ordinary shares held by Tinto Holdings Company without having made offers to the have the power to change that categorisation.
Australia, the holder of its Special Voting public shareholders of both Companies.
It If a matter falls within both categories, it is Share will carry one vote for each vote cast is consistent with the creation of the single treated as a Class Rights Action.
In addition, by the public shareholders of RioTinto plc economic enterprise and the equal treatment in their parallel meeting.
Tinto Holdings the directors can determine that matters not of the two sets of shareholders, that these Australia and the holder of the Special Voting expressly listed in either category should be laws and regulations should operate in this Share are required to vote strictly, and only, in put to shareholders for their approval under way.
The articles of association of RioTinto accordance with the votes cast for and against either procedure.
plc and the constitution of RioTinto Limited the equivalent resolution at the parallel To facilitate the joint voting arrangements impose restrictions on any person who RioTinto plc shareholders meeting.
each Company has entered into shareholder controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent voting agreements.
Each Company has issued The holders of RioTinto plc ordinary shares do or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, a Special Voting Share to a special purpose not actually hold any voting shares in RioTinto however, such a person only has an interest in company held in trust by a common Trustee.
Limited by virtue of their holding in RioTinto either RioTinto Limited or RioTinto plc, then plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements the restrictions will only apply if they control, RioTinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share relating to the Special Voting Share.
directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of RTP Special Voting Share to RTL Shareholder the votes at that Companys general meetings.
SVC and RioTinto Limited has issued its Special Capital distribution rights Voting Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP If one of the thresholds specifi ed above is If either of the Companies goes into Shareholder SVC.
The total number of votes cast breached then, subject to certain limited liquidation, the Sharing Agreement on Joint Decisions by the public shareholders of exceptions and notifi cation by the relevant provides for a valuation to be made of the one Company are voted at the parallel meeting Company, such persons may not attend or vote surplus assets of both Companies.
If the of the other Company.
The role of these at general meetings of the relevant Company, surplus assets available for distribution special purpose companies in achieving this is may not receive dividends or other distributions by one Company on each of the shares described below.
from the relevant Company, and may be held by its public shareholders exceed the divested of their interest by the directors of In exceptional circumstances, certain surplus assets available for distribution by the relevant Company.
These restrictions will public shareholders of the Companies can the other Company on each of the shares continue to apply until such persons have either be excluded from voting at the respective held by its public shareholders, then an made a public offer for all of the publicly held Companys general meetings because they equalising payment between the two shares of the other Company, or have reduced have acquired shares in one Company in Companies shall be made, to the extent their controlling interest below the thresholds excess of a given threshold without making an permitted by applicable law, such that the specifi ed, or have acquired through a permitted offer for all the shares in the other Company.
amount available for distribution on each means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held If this should occur, the votes cast by these share held by public shareholders of each shares of each Company.
excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
Company conforms to the Equalisation www.
com 233 Shareholder information Shareholder information continued These provisions are designed to ensure that Enquiries concerning RioTinto plc ADRs Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders offers for the publicly held shares of both should be directed to JPMorgan Chase Bank Former Alcan Inc. shareholders who have not Companies would be required to avoid the NA whose address and telephone number are tendered their Alcan shares to the RioTinto restrictions set out above, even if the interests also given under Useful addresses.
offer of US$101.00 per Common share are which breach the thresholds are only held in entitled to claim their funds by sending a Investor Centre one of the Companies.
The directors do not letter of transmittal together with their stock have the discretion to exempt a person from Investor Centre is RioTintos free, secure, certifi cate to Computershare Investor Services the operation of these rules.
self service website, where shareholders can Inc. whose details are given under Useful manage their holdings online.
A copy of the letter of transmittal Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies enables shareholders to: can be downloaded from the RioTinto agree to cooperate to enforce the restrictions website.
com shareholders contained in their articles of association and View share balances constitution and also agree that no member of Change address details Corporate nominee service the RioTinto Group shall accept a third party Computershare in conjunction with RioTinto offer for RioTinto Limited shares unless such View payment and tax information plc, operate a corporate nominee service for acceptance is approved by a Joint Decision of Update payment instructions private individuals.
Further information can the public shareholders of both Companies.
In addition, shareholders who register Guarantees their email address on Investor Centre, RioTinto on the web In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed can be notifi ed electronically of events RioTinto maintains a substantial amount Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the such as annual general meetings, and can of information on its website, including this other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll receive shareholder communications such and previous annual reports, many other Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the as the annual report or notice of meeting publications and links to Group company contractual obligations of the other Company electronically online.
and the obligations of other persons which Rio Tinto plc shareholders are guaranteed by the other Company, subject www.
co. uk riotinto It is the responsibility of the directors to to certain limited exceptions.
Benefi ciaries ensure that processes are in place to maintain under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make Rio Tinto Limited shareholders information and preserve the integrity of demand upon the guarantor thereunder www.
Legislation in the UK without fi first having recourse to the Company governing the preparation and dissemination Consolidation of share certifi cates or persons whose obligations are being of fi financial statements may differ from guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor If a certifi cated shareholding in RioTinto plc legislation in other jurisdictions.
under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire is represented by several individual share upon termination of the Sharing Agreement certifi cates, they can be replaced by one Publications and under other limited circumstances, but consolidated certifi cate.
There is no charge The following publications are on the website only in respect of obligations arising after for this service.
Share certifi cates should be but hardcopies can be obtained free of charge such termination and, in the case of other sent to Computershare together with a letter on request from the company secretaries: limited circumstances, the publication and of instruction.
The shareholders of the 2009 Annual report Share warrants to bearer Companies cannot enforce the provision of 2009 Annual review the Deed Poll Guarantees.
All outstanding share warrants to bearer of RioTinto plc have been converted into Parent entity fi financial statements for Supplementary information registered ordinary shares under the terms of RioTinto Limited a Scheme of Arrangement sanctioned by the General shareholder enquiries The way we work RioTintos statement of Court in 2001.
Holders of any outstanding Computershare Investor Services PLC business practice share warrants to bearer should contact and Computershare Investor Services Pty the company secretary of RioTinto plc for Review magazine RioTintos quarterly Limited are the share registrars for RioTinto an application form in order to obtain their magazine for shareholders plc and RioTinto Limited, respectively.
All rights to registered ordinary shares.
enquiries and correspondence concerning shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, should be directed to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and telephone numbers are given under Useful addresses on the back page.
Shareholders should notify Computershare promptly of any change of address.
234 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Shareholder information rights of three per cent or more or any person held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited Substantial shareholders with voting power of fi five per cent or more in in RioTinto Limited, the shareholders who Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency RioTinto Limited, is required to provide the have provided such, or an equivalent, Rules and the Australian Corporations Act, companies with notice.
Excluding the interest notice are: any shareholder of RioTinto plc with voting Percentage of RioTinto plc Date of notice Number of shares issued share capital Barclays PLC 12 Jul 2006 42,129,019 4.02 The Capital Group Companies, Inc 13 Jun 2006 41,031,494 3.90 Capital Research and Management Company 16 July 2009 75,461,183 4.95 AXA S. A.
Ltd, a Singapore based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminum Corporation of China acquired 119,705,134 RioTinto plc shares on 1 February 2008.
Through the operation of Corporations Act as modifi ed, this gives these entities and their associates voting power of 9.32 per cent in the RioTinto Group on a joint decision matter, making them substantial shareholders of RioTinto Limited as well as of RioTinto plc.
As far as it is known, Rio Tinto is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in a change of control.
Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of RioTinto plc.
Other large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of benefi cial shareholders.
