Shareholder information Defi nitions and exchange rates Non mining defi nitions Throughout this document, the collective expressions Rio Tinto, Rio Tinto Group and Group are used for convenience only.
Depending on the context in which they are used, they mean Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited and or one or more of the individual companies in which Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited directly or indirectly own investments, all of which are separate and distinct legal entities.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing American Depositary Shares ADS.
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in Australia.
Canadian dollars Rio Tinto plc and or Rio Tinto Limited, as the context so requires.
Company Companies Dual listed companies merger 1995.
DLC merger International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
EU IFRS International Accounting Standards Board.
IASB International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS London Bullion Market Association.
Abbreviates to, pence or p. Pounds sterling Public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto Limited group and the holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares that are not companies in the Rio Tinto plc group.
Abbreviates to R. Rand Rio Tinto Limited, and, where the context permits, its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto Limited group The holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders The shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto Limited share The DLC Dividend Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto Limited RTL DLC Dividend Share The Special Voting Share in Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto Limited RTL Special Voting Share Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ADS An American Depositary Share representing the right to receive four Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares.
Rio Tinto plc group Rio Tinto plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies.
Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares The shares of 10p each in Rio Tinto plc.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
Rio Tinto plc shareholders Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares Rio Tinto plc shares The DLC Dividend Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Rio Tinto plc RTP DLC Dividend Share The Special Voting Share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc RTP Special Voting Share Rio Tinto Limited shares or Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares, as the context requires.
Share shares The agreement, dated 21 December 1995, as amended between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc relating Sharing Agreement to the regulation of the relationship between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc following the DLC merger.
Abbreviates to dollars, $ or US$ and US cents or USc.
US dollars Mining and technical defi nitions Aluminium oxide.
It is extracted from bauxite in a chemical refi ning process and is subsequently the principal raw Alumina material in the electro-chemical process by which aluminium is produced.
Anode and cathode copper At the fi final stage of the smelting of copper concentrates, the copper is cast into specially shaped slabs called anodes for subsequent refi ning to produce refi ned cathode copper.
Bauxite Mainly hydrated aluminium oxides Al O.
Principal ore of alumina, the raw material from which aluminium is made.
2 3 2 Bioleaching The deliberate use of bacteria to speed the chemical release of metals from ores.
Block caving An underground bulk mining method.
It involves undercutting the orebody to induce ore fracture and collapse by gravity.
The broken ore is recovered through draw points below.
A generic term for mineral compounds which contain boron and oxygen.
Borates Cathode copper Refi ned copper produced by electrolytic refi ning of impure copper or by electro-winning.
Classifi cation Separating crushed and ground ore into portions of different size particles.
Coking coal By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.
Also known as metallurgical coal.
The product of a physical concentration process, such as fl otation or gravity concentration, which involves separating ore Concentrate minerals from unwanted waste rock.
Concentrates require subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
The lowest grade of mineralised material considered economic to process.
It is used in the calculation of the quantity of Cutoff grade ore present in a given deposit.
236 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Shareholder information Flotation A method of separating fi nely ground minerals using a froth created in water by specifi c reagents.
In the fl otation process certain mineral particles are induced to fl oat by becoming attached to bubbles of froth whereas others, usually unwanted, sink.
The proportion of metal or mineral present in ore, or any other host material, expressed in this document as per cent, Grade grams per tonne or ounces per ton.
The average grade of ore delivered to the mill.
Head grade Mineral composed of iron, titanium and oxygen.
Ilmenite By virtue of its carbonisation properties, it is used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steel making process.
Metallurgical coal Also known as coking coal.
A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and Mineral resource quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specifi c geological evidence and knowledge.
Mineral resources are subdivided in order of increasing geological confi dence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
A rock from which a metal s or mineral s can be economically and legally extracted.
Ore The quantity of ore processed.
Ore milled The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances Ore reserve for losses which may occur when the materials are mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modifi cation by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justifi ed.
Ore Reserves are subdivided in order of increasing confi dence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
The quantity of ore and waste rock excavated from the mine.
In this document, the term is only applied to surface mining operations.
Rock mined A mineral composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
Rutile 2 The tonnes of waste material which must be removed to allow the mining of one tonne of ore.
Stripping ratio Processes for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached into solution: the resulting Solvent extraction and electrowinning solution is then purifi ed in the solvent extraction process: the solution is then treated in an electro-chemical process SX-EW electro-winning to recover cathode copper.
Tailing The rock wastes which are rejected from a concentrating process after the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted.
Titanium dioxide feedstock A feedstock rich in titanium dioxide, produced, in Rio Tintos case, by smelting ores containing titanium minerals.
4 Conversion of weights and measures 1 troy ounce 31.1 grams 1 short ton 2,000 pounds 1 kilogram 32.15 troy ounces 1 long ton 2,240 pounds 1 kilogram 2.2046 pounds 1 gram per metric tonne 0.02917 troy ounces per short ton 1 metric tonne 1,000 kilograms 1 gram per metric tonne 0.03215 troy ounces per metric tonne 1 metric tonne 2,204.6 pounds 1 kilometre 0.6214 miles 1 metric tonne 1.1023 short tons Exchange rates The following tables show, for the periods and dates indicated, certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for pounds sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 1.00 and per A$1.00.
No representation is made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
com 237 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Strategy Delivery Growth Financial calendar Strategy 2010 14 January Fourth quarter 2009 operations review 11 February Announcement of results for 2009 Delivery 24 February Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2009 fi final dividend 26 February Record date for 2009 fi final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 2 March Record date for 2009 fi final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 11 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2009 fi final dividend Growth 1 April Payment date for 2009 fi final dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs 15 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 15 April First quarter 2010 operations review 22 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited A focused and 14 July Second quarter 2010 operations review 5 August Announcement of half year results for 2010 integrated strategy 11 August Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2010 interim dividend 13 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs Excellence in 17 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 18 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 interim dividend operational delivery 9 September Payment date for 2010 interim dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs 14 October Third quarter 2010 operations review Positioned for growth 2011 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review February Announcement of results for 2010 Useful information and contacts Investor Centre Registered offi ces Rio Tinto Limited To fi nd out more about Investor Centre, go to Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited www.
co. uk riotinto 2 Eastbourne Terrace GPO Box 2975 London Melbourne Holders of Rio Tinto American W2 6LG Victoria 3001 Depositary Receipts ADRs Registered in England No.
719885 Please contact the ADR administrator if Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 you have any queries about your ADRs.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7781 2000 Facsimile: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7781 1800 Australian residents only, toll free: ADR administrator Website: www.
com 1800 813 292 JPMorgan Chase & Co New Zealand residents only, toll free: P O Box 64504 Rio Tinto Limited 0800 450 740 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Level 33 Website: www.
com 120 Collins Street Telephone: 1 651 453 2128 Melbourne Investor Centre US residents only toll free general: Victoria 3000 To fi nd out more about Investor Centre go to 800 990 1135 ABN 96 004 458 404 www.
au US residents only toll free Global invest direct: 800 428 4237 Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Former Alcan Inc. Shareholders Website: www.
com shareholder Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 e-mail: jpmorgan.
com Computershare Investor Services Inc. Website: www.
com 9th Floor US investor relations consultant 100 University Avenue Shareholders Makinson Cowell US Limited Toronto Please contact the respective registrar if you One Penn Plaza Ontario have any queries about your shareholding.
250 West 34th Street M5J 2Y1 Suite 1935 Canada Rio Tinto plc New York, NY 10119 Telephone: 1 514 982 7555 Computershare Investor Services PLC Telephone: 1 212 994 9044 North American residents only, toll free The Pavilions Website: www.
com 2009 Annual report This document is printed on Revive 50:50 offset: a paper containing 50% virgin fi bre and 50% post consumer waste.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process and contains fi bre from well managed FSC certifi ed forests.
100% of the This report is available online at www.
com inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Park is an EMAS certifi ed CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certifi ed to ISO14001.
Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com Financial calendar 2010 14 January Fourth quarter 2009 operations review 11 February Announcement of results for 2009 24 February Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2009 final dividend 26 February Record date for 2009 final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 2 March Record date for 2009 final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares Strategy 11 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2009 final dividend 1 April Payment date for 2009 final dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs Delivery 15 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 15 April First quarter 2010 operations review Growth 22 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 14 July Second quarter 2010 operations review A focused and integrated strategy 5 August Announcement of half year results for 2010 Excellence in operational delivery Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend 11 August for 2010 interim dividend Positioned for growth 13 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 17 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 18 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 interim dividend 9 September Payment date for 2010 interim dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs 14 October Third quarter 2010 operations review 2011 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review February Announcement of results for 2010 Useful information and contacts Registered offices Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services PLC 2 Eastbourne Terrace The Pavilions London Bridgwater Road W2 6LG Bristol BS99 6ZY Registered in England No.
com Rio Tinto Limited Investor Centre Level 33 To find out more about Investor Centre, go to 120 Collins Street www.
co. uk riotinto Melbourne Rio Tinto Limited Victoria 3000 ABN 96 004 458 404 Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 Telephone: 61 0 3 9283 3333 Melbourne Facsimile: 61 0 3 9283 3707 Victoria 3001 Website: www.
com Telephone: 61 0 3 9415 4030 Shareholders Facsimile: 61 0 3 9473 2500 Please contact the respective registrar if you Australia residents only, toll free: 1800 813 292 have any queries about your shareholding.
New Zealand residents only, toll free: 0800 450 740 Website: www.
com Investor Centre To find out more about Investor Centre go to www.
au What you can find online www.
com Find out more about our business and performance online 2009 Annual report Webcast of our 2009 results Sustainable development review This document is printed on Revive 50:50 offset: a paper containing 50% virgin fibre and 50% post consumer waste.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using a 2009 Annual review Totally Chlorine Free TCF process and contains fibre from well managed FSC certified forests.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Park is an EMAS certified CarbonNeutral Company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
This report is available online at www.
com Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com A focused and integrated strategy Excellence in operational delivery Positioned for growth Our strategy is to invest in and operate large, RioTinto is a leading international business involved in each stage long term, cost competitive mines and businesses, of metal and mineral production.
We produce aluminium, copper, driven by the quality of each opportunity.
diamonds, coal, iron ore, uranium, gold, and industrial minerals Our assets give us a rich array of options for borates, titanium dioxide, salt, talc, zircon.
With production growth in line with demand.
mainly from Australia and North America, we operate in more than Our recapitalisation and asset divestment 50 countries.
We employ about 102,000 people whose health and programmes have strengthened our balance safety is a key priority and an integral part of placing sustainable sheet and enhanced options for growth.
development at the heart of everything we do.
We operate as a Safe working and sustainable development are global organisation with one set of standards and values, sharing at the heart of our activities, with our worldwide best practices across the Group.
operations providing long term local benefits.
Inside this review Performance highlights 1 Chairman Jan du Plessis introduces the strengths Group overview 2 of our business today.
Statement from our chairman 4 Read his statement Chief executives message 6 on page 4 Chief financial officers review 9 Delivering our strategy 10 Key development projects 12 Sustainable development 14 A snapshot of our business: Chief executive Tom Albanese explains our strategy and Aluminium 18 the actions we have taken to Copper 19 strengthen our business.
Diamonds & Minerals 20 Read his message Energy 21 on page 6 Iron Ore 22 Exploration 23 Technology & Innovation 23 Leading RioTinto into the future: Chief financial officer Guy Elliott reviews Board of directors and executive committee 24 our financial performance Summary governance and remuneration report 26 for 2009.
Five year summary 30 Read his review Summary income statement 31 on page 9 Summary statement of financial position 32 Auditors report 33 Shareholder information Back cover On the cover What you can find online www.
com The port of Ehoala, serving a new Rio Tinto mine in south east Find out more about our business and performance online Madagascar, forms part of a regional growth project funded by the World Bank.
2009 Annual report Webcast of our 2009 results Sustainable development review Performance highlights A snapshot of the year View more fi financial and performance highlights at www.
com Commendable results in the face of global downturn Underlying earnings 1 2008: US$ 10.3bn US $ 6.3bn Net earnings 2008: US$3.7bn US $ 4.9bn The balance sheet has been recapitalised Net debt 2008: US$ 38.7bn US $ 18.9bn Strong operational performance Cash fl ow from operations 2008: US$ 20.7bn US $ 13.
Underlying earnings is the key fi financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance.
It is presented here as an additional measure of earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Groups operations.
Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the 2009 Financial statements.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal with amounts attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto.
However, EU IFRS requires that the profi t for the year reported in the income statement should also include earnings attributable to outside shareholders in subsidiaries.
Cautionary statement about forward looking statements This document contains certain forward looking statements known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, actual results with respect to the fi financial condition, results of operations and factors set forth in this document that are beyond the Groups could be materially different from projected future results expressed business of the Rio Tinto Group.
The words intend, aim, project, control.
For example, future ore reserves will be based in part or implied by these forward looking statements which speak anticipate, estimate, plan, believes, expects, may, should, on market prices that may vary signifi cantly from current levels.
only as to the date of this report.
Except as required by applicable will, or similar expressions, commonly identify such forward These may materially affect the timing and feasibility of particular regulations or by law, the Group does not undertake any obligation looking statements.
Other factors include the ability to produce and to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, transport products profi tably, demand for our products, the effect whether as a result of new information or future events.
The Group Examples of forward looking statements in this Annual review of foreign currency exchange rates on market prices and operating cannot guarantee that its forward looking statements will not differ include those regarding estimated ore reserves, anticipated costs, and activities by governmental authorities, such as changes in materially from actual results.
production or construction dates, costs, outputs and productive taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
lives of assets or similar factors.
Forward looking statements involve www.
com 1 Group overview Activities that span the world We have a global presence with major operations in Australia and North America which account for approximately 85 per cent of the value of our assets, as well as signifi cant businesses in South America, southern Africa and Asia.
A ll injury frequency rate reduced to 0.82 from 0.98 Set iron ore production and sales records Progressed t ransformation of our aluminium business Exceeded targeted controllable operating cost savings Aluminium Copper Diamonds & Minerals Rio Tinto Alcan is a global leader in the The Copper group is one of the worlds largest The group comprises Rio Tinto Diamonds RTD, aluminium industry.
It mines high quality producers of copper, with valuable by-products Rio Tinto Minerals RTM and Rio Tinto Iron & bauxite, refi fines alumina for both primary of gold and molybdenum.
A diverse mix of Titanium RTIT.
RTD accounts for about six aluminium production and specialty alumina operations and projects are located in North per cent of the worlds production of rough markets, and produces primary aluminium at and South America, Africa, Asia and Australia.
RTM is a global leader some of the lowest cost, most technologically In addition to interests in some of the worlds in borates and talc supply and of the science advanced smelters in the industry.
The group is largest copper mines, it is taking the lead in the behind their use, and RTIT is a market leader renowned for its technology leadership as well development of three of the worlds largest new in titanium dioxide feedstock, used in the as its advantaged renewable energy assets.
manufacture of pigments for paints and plastics.
1 1 1 Number of employees : 22,919 Number of employees : 7,612 Number of employees : 7,375 Products Products Products Bauxite, Alumina, Specialty aluminas, Aluminium Copper, Gold, Molybdenum and Silver Diamonds, Borates, Titanium dioxide feedstocks, Talc, High purity iron, Metal powders, Zircon, Rutile Key facts Key facts Key facts Integration synergies expected to exceed Strong operating performance in 2009 US$1.1 billion in 2010 supported by recovering market Businesses oriented to OECD demand hence diffi cult conditions Achieved rapid cost reductions and Kennecott Utah Copper production up Businesses showing signs of recovery, production curtailments 37 per cent from 2008 particularly in Asian markets Business being transformed in readiness Copper industry faces future supply challenges Diavik Diamonds underground mine starts for the economic recovery production in 2010 Breakthrough agreement for development During the year, aluminium prices plummeted of major Mongolian copper-gold mine Commencement of ramp up of Madagascar by as much as 70 per cent from 2008 mineral sands mine Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue 27% 14% 6% 2 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review View more about our global operations at www.
com Countries with operations and or projects Iron Ore Exploration Energy Actively exploring in 17 countries Rio Tinto Iron Ore is the second largest supplier The role of the Exploration group is to add value Rio Tinto is a leading supplier of thermal and to the worlds seaborne iron ore trade and to Rio Tinto by discovering or acquiring resources coking coal to the Asian seaborne market as produces direct saleable lump and fi fines ore, that can increase future cash fl ows.
It is organised well as being one of the worlds largest uranium pellets and concentrates.
It has a global supply into regional multi-commodity teams, with producers, operating the second and third capacity to serve both the Pacifi c and Atlantic head offi ces in the UK, the US and Australia, largest uranium mines.
Rio Tinto Coal Australia markets, operating an integrated platform of supported by commodity and commercial manages eight coal mines in Queensland and mines, rail and port infrastructure including specialists.
Programmes are prioritised on a New South Wales.
In the US, the group operates development projects designed to respond global basis, with investment decisions driven the Colowyo coal mine and has a 48 per cent rapidly to changes in demand.
It operates not by location or choice of commodity but interest in Cloud Peak Energy.
Dampier Salt located near its iron ore mines rather by the quality of each opportunity.
1 Number of employees : 7,613 in Australia as well as Rio Tinto Marine.
Technology & Innovation 1 Products Number of employees : 11,375 Thermal coal, Coking coal and Uranium Products Key facts Offi ces in Australia, Iron ore and Salt More robust seaborne coal markets emerging Canada, the UK and Key facts fide-bottlenecking of Australian coal export Operated at full run rate of 220 million the US ports under way tonnes capacity in second half of 2009 Technology & Innovations role is to identify, New Clermont mine and Kestrel mine Developing plans to produce 330 million expansion on track develop and promote best operational technology tonnes per year practice across the Group and to pursue step Nuclear power comeback spells promise Uses automated mining technologies change innovation of strategic importance to for uranium including driverless haul trucks orebodies of the future.
Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue These two business units perform global functions in support of our expansion and operating goals.
15% 29% 1 This is the average Rio Tinto share of employees for managed businesses, excluding contractors and employees in businesses classifi ed as assets held for sale during 2009. www.
com 3 6,298 10,303 7,443 7,338 4,955 Statement from our chairman A year of two halves Thanks to a number of signifi cant decisions on our part and assisted by a more favourable external environment, we have recovered our poise and steadied the ship.
Jan du Plessis During what was clearly a historic and tumultuous programme and improved operating conditions, transaction, we deeply regretted the loss of year for the global community, Rio Tinto found we ended the year with a much stronger balance a unique opportunity to establish a strategic 2009 to be particularly testing.
It certainly felt at sheet.
In short, thanks to a number of signifi cant partnership that would have fundamentally times as if we were experiencing an amplifi ed decisions on our part and assisted by a more changed our relationship with our largest customer version of the global fi financial crisis and its favourable external environment, we have base.
We will continue to work towards extending knock on effect on business confi dence, demand recovered our poise and steadied the ship.
our relationship with Chinalco and to pursue for commodities and availability of credit.
business opportunities that may be to our Chinalco mutual benefi t. However, despite the early trauma, for Rio Looking at the year as a whole, our attempt Tinto it turned out to be a year of two halves.
Improving prospects to establish a strategic partnership with the After the particularly diffi cult fi first few months, largest Chinese resources group and our largest In deciding that we were not able to pursue characterised by our balance sheet challenges, the transaction with Chinalco, the board shareholder, Chinalco, was undeniably a very very weak demand, low product pricing and the signifi cant event for Rio Tinto.
The proposed was nevertheless delighted that it was able contentious Chinalco transaction, our fortunes transaction would have allowed us to establish a to announce the proposed production joint improved considerably as the year progressed.
venture with BHP Billiton in relation to our highly important strategic link with the Chinese As a result of shareholder support for our rights market, whilst at the same time enabling us respective iron ore assets in Western Australia.
issues, together with the success of our disposal The joint venture will allow us to capture to signifi cantly recapitalise our balance sheet.
the enormous long term synergy benefi ts Especially in the context of the situation that would result from the integration of our prevailing at that time, the board considered Underlying earnings production facilities.
The value that could be the Chinalco proposition both strategically US$m captured has been estimated to be at least and fi nancially attractive.
The transaction was nevertheless highly We simultaneously announced major rights controversial.
On becoming chairman in April issues which took place in the UK and Australia it was evident to me that I needed to look for in June and July.
These raised net proceeds of guidance from our shareholders.
During the US$14.8 billion which were used to repay debt, ensuing consultation process, I met with a well ahead of our original US$10 billion target.
large number of shareholder groups in the UK, The rights issues attracted an extraordinary vote Australia and elsewhere.
It became clear to of confi dence in Rio Tinto, with 97 per cent of me that many shareholders had considerable shareholders taking up their rights in Rio Tinto plc, misgivings about the proposed transaction.
and a 95 per cent take up in Rio Tinto Limited.
All These concerns related not only to the fi financial of Rio Tintos directors, as well as Chinalco, took up terms of the transaction, but there were high their full entitlement of shares.
levels of discomfort about the structure of our relationship with Chinalco.
The board could not These decisions brought relief from some of 05 06 07 08 09 the pressures of the earlier months of the year.
ignore the strength and depth of these feelings It put the period of unusual corporate activity although, in deciding not to proceed with that 4 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Read the full Annual report at www.
com behind us and fi nally gave us a fi rm foothold to Rio Tintos longstanding commitment to Outlook advance into the second half of the year.
As we sustainable development and the quality of The outlook for mining and metals is improving saw markets improve in the subsequent months, our sustainable development web pages have but remains volatile and uncertain in the short I was particularly pleased to see the executive been recognised in the CSR Online Awards term.
The latest leading indicators for developed team focused on fi first class operational delivery Global Leaders 2009, published by Dow Jones economies imply that we may have returned to as a priority for the Group.
We ended the year Newswires and an Italian business daily.
expansionary territory, although no one knows with a strong set of production fi gures and the to what extent or for how long.
The pick up Our recently completed mineral sands mine achievement of a number of production and in metals demand at mid year was primarily in Madagascar won South Africas prestigious sales records.
This of course also signalled a driven by government stimulus measures and 2009 Nedbank Environmental Award in the signifi cant pick up in physical demand for a recovery in economic activity which caused environmental category, for signifi cant effort our products.
producers to return to buying raw materials.
in protecting or improving the biophysical Results and dividend environment in which it operates.
The key driver for the mining industry continues The strong production numbers, coupled with Rio Tinto became a signatory to the UN Global to be demand from China.
Record Chinese metals improved commodity prices, translated into Compact in 2000 and we were one of its early imports have served to offset weakness in other a signifi cant improvement in operating cash supporters.
We also remain an active member markets.
However, we will also need to see fl ow in the second half.
This, together with the of the World Business Council for Sustainable OECD economies improve and a resumption proceeds of our rights issues and the disposal of Development and the International Council in international trade fl ows to fully support a assets, signifi cantly strengthened our balance on Mining and Metals, whose members are global economic recovery.
Rio Tinto started 2009 with net debt of committed to superior business practices in Similarly, there are concerns about the US$38.7 billion and a debt to equity ratio of sustainable development.
sustainability of Chinese demand in the short 63 per cent.
We had made the commitment in term.
Longer term, China is likely to move towards December 2008 to reduce net debt by US$10 Governance and board more domestic, consumption led development.
Net debt at the end of 2009 The board is committed to high standards of stood at US$18.9 billion with gearing much governance as the foundation of our ethical Our people reduced to 29 per cent.
In 2009, we strengthened Our year of two halves demonstrated our governance system by renewing our global The Groups underlying earnings in 2009 were commendable perseverance as we moved from code of conduct, The way we work, establishing US$6.3 billion, 39 per cent below 2008.
Net diffi culty to success.
Facing up to setbacks and a common Group wide code to replace business earnings were US$4.9 billion compared with promoting recovery has shown Rio Tinto to unit codes of conduct.
The code serves to spread US$3.7 billion in 2008.
Cash fl ow from operations be a high performing organisation.
We have our values of accountability, respect, teamwork decreased 33 per cent to US$13.8 billion.
come through these testing times thanks in no and integrity throughout the organisation With our balance sheet signifi cantly small measure to the quality and commitment by providing guidance on how employees strengthened and our prospects much of our people.
The downturn unfortunately should conduct themselves at work and when improved, we are pleased to be able to reinstate necessitated a reduction of about 16,000 representing Rio Tinto.
Our confi dential the dividend.
Total dividends declared for employees and contractors across the Group whistleblowing programme, Speak-OUT, is a 2009 were 45 US cents per share.
The Group which took place mainly in the early months key element of The way we work, available in expects that the total cash dividend for the 2010 of the year.
Since then we have stabilised the the language of the employees choice to alert fi financial year will be at least equal to the total organisation and a renewed management senior management to any serious issues or cash dividend of US$1.75 billion paid in respect structure has been introduced.
These steps will inappropriate behaviour that employees do not of 2008, albeit spread over an increased number provide the platform to mobilise and energise feel able to discuss with management on site.
From 2010 on, we are committed to the workforce and give us the momentum to Your boards enjoy a balanced representation of a progressive dividend policy over the longer resume growth.
viewpoints and a wealth of business experience.
The board and I would like to express our Sir David Clementi and David Mayhew will retire collective appreciation to Group employees and as directors at the conclusion of the 2010 annual Sustainable development general meetings.
The boards thank them for contractors around the world for their strong Rio Tinto conducts business in an ethical and their valuable contributions over many years.
commitment and unfl agging efforts in 2009: for socially responsible manner aimed at building We welcomed Ann Godbehere, who has 25 years their focus on safety, operational excellence and a positive reputation and ensuring ongoing experience in the fi financial services industry, delivery to customers, as well as for conducting access to people, capital and mineral resources.
She will be our business in a socially responsible way.
Delivering on our commitment means making chairman of the Audit committee.
Robert Brown, sustainable development considerations an who has considerable global business experience integral part of our business plans and decision in the aerospace industry, will join the boards on making processes.
Ann and Bob will be standing for election at the annual general meetings in April, Rio Tinto was again identifi ed as a sustainable along with Sam Walsh, chief executive, Rio Tinto development leader during the year by retaining Iron Ore and Australia, who joined the boards its listing on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index effective 5 June 2009.
DJSI World Index and DJSI STOXX Index as well Jan du Plessis as the FTSE4Good.
We have been included in Chairman the DJSI series since 2002 and the FTSE4Good since becoming eligible for inclusion in 2007. www.
com 5 Chief executives message A focused strategy During 2009 we made some good decisions to improve our fi financial position.
We have emerged from this testing year as a stronger and fi tter business.
By contrast, the continuing strong China story was offset by a stagnant demand picture in Highlights of 2009 OECD countries where consumer spending remains relatively weak.
Australia was an Underlying earnings US$6.3 billion exception, with its economy bolstered by the strong demand for commodities.
In the US, Cash fl ow from operations US$13.8 billion Japan and Europe, pervasive economic concerns mean that we will continue to be cautious, Net capital expenditure US$5.4 billion especially as we begin to see the effects of the winding down of stimulus programmes.
Net debt reduced by US$19.8 billion Financial recovery Announced asset sales US$10.3 billion The speed and severity of the downturn in late 2008 exposed our levels of debt and made it more diffi cult to achieve the asset disposals we Over the course of 2009 managements focus During 2009 we took steps to improve our had planned for the repayment of debt.
During has been on strengthening the business after aluminium business which was signifi cantly 2009 we made some good decisions in diffi cult a period of prolonged corporate activity and affected by the economic downturn.
Rio Tinto circumstances to improve our fi financial position Alcan surpassed targeted integration synergies, a severe downturn.
We are grateful for the and achieve a reduction in controllable cash adopted Rio Tinto HSE policies and standards, support we received from shareholders in costs of US$2.6 billion.
We have emerged from improved safety performance, implemented cost recapitalising the company and helping us this testing year as a stronger and fi tter business.
reductions, progressed the permanent closure regain our momentum.
We were also helped Regarding divestments, we chose to postpone a and divestment of high cost facilities and made by the capacity of our organisation to deliver number of sales.
We made good progress with temporary production curtailments.
Taken strong operational performance in challenging together, these measures amount to a strong completion of the sale of our potash assets in economic circumstances.
start to the transformation of that business.
the fi first half and the Brazilian iron ore operation The successful injection of US$14.8 billion from in the second half.
More importantly, in the To prepare ourselves for the next stage of our rights issues, the effi ciencies derived from second half we made signifi cant progress with Rio Tintos growth and to develop the next our cash preservation measures, and signifi cant announced divestments on most of the former generation of leaders, I made changes to the progress with our divestment programme which Alcans Packaging businesses, and our US structure of my senior management team.
This realised sales and binding offers of US$5.7 coal operations.
By the end of 2009, we had included the reinstatement of the Diamonds & billion in the year, have given Rio Tinto greater announced sales transactions of more than Minerals product group.
Our structure ensures a fi financial strength and fl exibility.
US$10 billion over the past two years.
tight focus on our core objective and allows for I am proud of the way in which our employees a broad range of investment opportunities to be Strategic direction and markets have persevered in delivering the commitments generated, regardless of our portfolio.
We completed a thorough review of our strategy we made during these demanding times.
Market conditions with our board and executive committee, Unfortunately, these achievements have been leading to the reaffi rmation of our longstanding overshadowed by four fatalities during the A year ago, I said that we hoped to see some core objective.
This is to maximise our long year at managed operations.
Three of these recovery in Chinas gross domestic product term return to shareholders by investing in and took place in Africa and we have renewed our GDP in the second half of 2009.
The effect of operating large, long life, cost competitive mines focus on embedding our safety systems in the Chinese Governments monetary stimulus and assets, driven not by choice of commodity developing countries.
I am pleased to say our package exceeded most commentators but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
key performance indicators for safety continued expectations actual growth surpassed eight to improve during 2009 with a reduction in our This strategy will of course be recognisable per cent and we expect this strong growth to all injury frequency rate of 16 per cent.
to our long term shareholders.
Reaching agreement to form the Western The improvements we have seen in most of our We will ensure that our structure and Australian iron ore production joint venture markets were primarily driven by this stronger capabilities are tailored to meet the with BHP Billiton was an important highlight of Chinese GDP growth and its attendant effects requirements of our customers and the year.
We expect it will achieve substantial on Chinese construction and infrastructure the marketplace.
benefi ts for stakeholders by delivering synergies development.
Whilst we remain cautious about and unlocking the full potential of the valuable the recovery in our markets, we believe that Western Australian iron ore assets in an era of these trends are likely to continue for some time increasing demand for this vital commodity.
as China continues to urbanise and industrialise.
6 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Tom Albanese Our diverse portfolio, high quality assets, people and expertise in technology and marketing give us the capability to supply a wide spectrum of customers and markets.
This gives us exposure to worldwide markets at various stages of the development cycle.
We will continue to improve our understanding of market dynamics and how we fi t into the global picture, and apply this to our planning and investment proposals.
To deliver on our objective, the Group will continue to concentrate on developing Tier 1 assets.
These are assets that will safeguard our future cash fl ow and will operate profi tably at every stage of the commodity cycle.
Key to our way of operating is a commitment to sustainable development.
It is an essential part of the way we work and is at the heart of everything we do.
This commitment is key to maintaining our licence to operate.
We have a comprehensive sustainable development programme which is discussed more fully on pages 14-17.
Carbon, water use and biodiversity are becoming increasingly topical in this context.
We have taken a proactive approach in all three areas and are progressively building them into our planning, especially as we see these three issues becoming increasingly inter-linked.
Priorities for growth One of our key objectives for 2010 is to put the Group back on a growth path following the rights issues and strengthening of the balance sheet.
We continued to invest in growth throughout 2009.
Capital expenditure was US$5.4 billion of which US$3 billion was on major construction projects.
In 2010, capital expenditure is expected to be US$5 to US$6 billion.
The strong demand for iron ore clearly provides the most obvious option for production growth.
We are continuing work on staged growth projects in the Pilbara.
We used the past 12 months to optimise our planned growth pathway, fi nding ways to ease input costs, capture savings from reduced lead times, and refi ning project design.
We have commenced initiatives to expand capacity to 280 million tonnes per year by 2013 and 330 million tonnes per annum by 2015.
In 2009, we completed an unprecedented and technologically sophisticated integration of www.
com 7 Chief executives message continued Mining by remote control, Rio Tinto pioneers the future our iron ore operations in Western Australia Investment Agreement with the Government of as the average wealth of many millions of TM through our Mine of the Future programmes Mongolia in October 2009, a project budget was people increases.
Their consumption of raw and the opening of our new Operations Centre agreed that covers the resumption in 2010 of materials will rise accordingly.
This will contribute to the US$10 shaft sinking, construction of a shaft headframe, the top of the commodity intensity usage curve, billion synergy savings we expect to reap from continuation of underground development India is expected to follow, supporting a further the proposed production joint venture with BHP and installation of infrastructure.
The size of potential wave of strong commodity demand.
the resource is consistent with our strategy of Billiton.
The benefi ts from the production joint For Rio Tinto, 2009 marked a positive turning venture would be without equal in the mining investing in large, long term, cost competitive point from which we have emerged with our industry, applied broadly across production and mines and businesses.
Nevertheless, development activities, including combining major challenges remain.
The Tier 1 deposits China adjacent mines into single operations, more that are the focus of our strategy are becoming effi cient use and allocation of infrastructure An objective for 2010, and one that I am harder to fi nd and more technologically diffi cult and ore blending opportunities to maximise particularly focused on, is to strengthen our to develop.
There are pressures in countries well product recovery.
China is our largest endowed with minerals for governments to gain source of short term demand growth.
In 2009, In Aluminium we completed the start up of the a greater proportion of resource rents.
it became the most important destination for Sohar smelter in Oman, to which we contributed our products and infl uences global pricing of Together with the executive committee, I wish to our benchmark AP36 smelting technology.
It is also the home of our largest join our chairman in expressing appreciation to is a good example of how Rio Tinto Alcans shareholder, Chinalco.
all who work for Rio Tinto for their contribution technology leadership can position us as a to a very busy and successful year.
All have played partner of choice.
The portfolio will enable us We were pleased to see Chinalco take up its a part in strengthening the business for our next to leverage our technology advantage, extensive full entitlement of shares in our rights issues stage of growth.
With our strong assets, growth project management expertise and strong and maintain its shareholding at 12 per cent of options and great people, we can look forward operating capabilities.
Rio Tinto plc and 9.3 per cent of the dual listed to an exciting future for the Group.
Current projects involve investment in the Clermont thermal coal and Kestrel coking coal I would like to add a word on our four employees who were detained on 5 July 2009 projects in Queensland, Australia, refl ecting in Shanghai.
We wish to see the completion of strong energy markets.
We have options to an expeditious and transparent legal process.
expand at both of our uranium operations.
Our continued priority is our duty of care to our Construction of the Yarwun 2 alumina refi nery Tom Albanese colleagues and support for their families.
continues, albeit at a slower rate than originally Chief executive anticipated in response to market conditions.
In Outlook Diamonds, the Diavik and Argyle underground projects also continued at a slower rate.
Each of Our markets and our balance sheet are much these projects was approved before the global improved from last year, but we recognise that fi financial crisis, and we have continued to invest major short term uncertainties remain.
We expect to see production begin at however, given continued growth and urbanisation both Clermont and Diavik underground in 2010. of the developing world, the outlook for our industry is attractive.
We increased our stake in the Oyu Tolgoi project through additional investment in Ivanhoe Mines.
The exponential growth of Chinas demand Rio Tinto has responsibility for developing and for iron ore, copper, coal and aluminium is operating the mine.
Following the signing of the expected to continue over the next 15 years, 8 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Chief fi financial offi cers review Transformation of the balance sheet We are continuing to focus on achieving a single A credit rating, through measures such as completing divestments of non core assets.
Guy Elliott the latter part of 2009, as fi financial conditions expect that the total cash dividend for the 2010 Strengthened balance sheet recovered, we were able to announce a number fi financial year will be at least equal to the total During 2009, we have recapitalised the balance of divestments at good values and without the cash dividend payment for 2008 of US$1.75 sheet.
We more than halved net debt, reducing need for vendor support.
billion, albeit over an increased number it to US$18.9 billion.
This was a reduction of of shares.
From that point on, the Group is US$19.8 billion, almost twice our original debt These actions are part of a prudent approach committed to a progressive dividend policy reduction target.
We achieved this through to managing the balance sheet.
Our target is over the longer term.
strong cash fl ow from operations, continued to achieve a single A credit rating.
A strong progress with our divestment programme and balance sheet will allow Rio Tinto to take Reinvestment in the business the successful rights issues.
The rights issues advantage of value creating opportunities Our priority for allocation of capital has raised net proceeds of US$14.8 billion and were as they arise.
always been, and remains, to make value a signifi cant step in removing the pressure from adding investments in our business in order our balance sheet.
I would like to express my Financial results and dividend to maximise shareholder value.
The improved thanks to shareholders who participated in the Underlying earnings were US$6.3 billion, 39 balance sheet enabled us to continue investing rights issues for their support.
per cent lower than 2008, primarily as a result in the business with capital expenditures in of lower commodity prices.
The impact of lower In addition to reducing debt we have also 2009 of US$5.4 billion.
prices was partially compensated by excellent improved our fi financial liquidity.
The successful operational performance in our iron ore and In 2010 we expect capital expenditure of US$3.5 billion bond issue in April 2009 allowed copper businesses.
In addition, defi nitive action approximately US$5 billion and we may us to term out short term debt.
The proceeds was taken in reducing production at some of our allocate a further US$1 billion to new from the rights issues were used to repay debt higher cost aluminium operations and reducing investments, allowing us to be responsive to that was scheduled to mature in 2010 and 2011. production levels in the diamonds and minerals quality opportunities.
Such opportunities In October we made an early repayment of business in response to the market environment.
will be assessed on a case by case basis, and US$1.5 billion of debt due in 2012.
In January may include small to medium sized bolt on 2010, a further US$2 billion was repaid early We delivered on our commitment to reduce acquisitions.
We will continue to fund a with an additional repayment of US$2 billion controllable cash costs, achieving reductions number of major evaluation projects in 2010. in February 2010.
Our cash and undrawn debt of US$2.6 billion in 2009.
This was accomplished facilities are now at very healthy levels.
through a series of actions including a reduction Our long term outlook remains unchanged.
of 16,000 roles, reducing exploration and We expect continued growth in demand for Since the beginning of 2008, we have achieved evaluation activities, and bottom up cost our products and will continue to invest in over US$10 billion in agreed sales of which the reduction programmes.
As markets continue large, long life, low cost, expandable assets majority have now closed.
During the global to recover in 2010 we may begin to see some to meet this increasing demand.
fi financial crisis, it was virtually impossible to sell upward pressure on input prices and increased businesses for good values and for cash.
During spend on some of our high quality growth projects.
However, we will not allow waste or Net debt at 31 December 2009 ineffi ciency to increase our cost base.
US At the time of the rights issues, we undertook $ to make a 2009 fi final dividend payment subject Guy Elliott to satisfactory trading results, progress on Chief fi financial offi cer 18.9bn divestments and prevailing market conditions.
We are satisfi ed these conditions have been Net debt and liquidity have been surpassed.
Therefore, the Group will pay a transformed during 2009 fi final dividend of US 45 cents per share.
com 9 Delivering our strategy A focused and integrated strategy Our vision of being the global mining leader means maintaining or achieving sector leadership including operational excellence, sustainable development, exploration and innovation.
Core objective Strategy Priorities To maximise total shareholder To invest in and operate large, We have fi five business priorities to return by sustainably fi nding, long term, cost competitive enable us to deliver our strategy developing, mining and mines and businesses, driven and improve our long term processing natural resources.
not by choice of commodity fi financial performance.
These but rather by the quality of priorities will support our vision each opportunity.
to be the global mining leader.
Focus on operational delivery We will pursue an innovative and sustained focus on cost reduction and productivity improvement.
This will include continuing the transformation of the Aluminium business: capitalising on our leading technologies: and delivering capacity improvements along the supply chain.
Pursue our growth path We will grow our business through disciplined capital expenditure.
This means focusing on opportunities that complement our strategy, and capitalising on the expansion potential of our existing assets.
Complete the iron ore production joint venture We will concentrate on completing the proposed iron ore production joint venture with BHP Billiton.
This transaction would 10 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Read our full Annual report or visit www.
com for more information on our strategy and key performance indicators Kennecott Utah Copper Pilbara Saguenay Operating since 1906, KUC still has signifi cant Record production and sales of iron ore in 2009 Extensive hydroelectric network in Quebec with reserves and exploration potential.
Key performance indicators enable us to deliver substantial synergies Achievement of our strategy and goals are measured by and unlock the true value of our a mixture of fi financial and non fi financial performance signifi cant assets in the Pilbara.
indicators, some of which are linked to executive remuneration.
Prudent balance sheet management We are continuing to focus on further strengthening our balance sheet, with the objective of moving towards Total shareholder return TSR 172.5% achieving a single A credit rating, 2008: 71.5 % through measures such as completing divestments of non core assets.
US$ Underlying earnings 6.3bn 2008: US$10.3bn Strengthen our relationship with China US$ Operating cash fl ow 13.8bn We will seek to strengthen our 2008: US$20.7bn relationship with China, our largest trading partner, the home of our largest US$ Net debt 18.9bn shareholder, and a market that will be one 2008: US$38.7bn of the major drivers of future demand.
Improving our stakeholder relationships US$ Capital expenditure 5.4bn helps us to be seen as a partner of choice, 2008: US$8.5bn and ensures we maintain and extend our licence to operate.
All injury frequency rate AIFR 0.82 2008: 0.9 8 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 92.5 2008: 100.0 Read our fi five year summary on page 30 for more information www.
com 11 Key development projects 1 Well positioned for growth 7 2 We will grow our business through 20 disciplined capital expenditure.
This means 18 focusing on opportunities that complement 10 our strategy, and leveraging the expansion 13 potential of our large, long term assets.
Read more on our growth projects at www.
com Project pipeline 1 Diavik, diamonds 2 AP50 pilot plant, aluminium 3 Clermont, thermal coal 4 Yarwun, bauxite 5 Oyu Tolgoi, copper-gold 6 Pilbara, iron ore 7 Kitimat, aluminium 8 Rssing, uranium 9 ERA, uranium 10 KUC,  19 11 Escondida, copper 12 Bunder, diamonds 1 3 Resolution, copper-molybdenum 1 4 Simandou, iron ore 1 5 Jadar, lithium-borates 1 6 Mutamba, ilmenite 11 17 Orissa, iron ore Priority exploration projects 18 Tamarack, nickel-copper 1 9 Amargosa, bauxite 20 Bingham Canyon, copper-molybdenum 1 Dia 1 1 1 Dia Di D Dia avvik v vik i ik k k 2 2 2 2 2 AP5 A A AP5 AP AP50 pilot plant P50 50 p 50 0 pi pil pilo ilot lot ot p t pl pla plan lan ant nt nt 3 Clermont 3 3 3 Cle Cl C Cler erm rm mo mon mo mo o ont ont nt nt D D D Di Di iamonds & Miner iam am a amo mon ond nd nds ds & s & & M & M M Min Min ner ne er ra als als als ls s Al Al Al A Alu u um uuminium m min min ini niu ium um m m Ener E Ene En Ener Ener er rg gy g gygy y y y Started as a surface mine in 2003, Diavik Diamonds is Rio Tinto Alcans proprietary aluminium The Clermont mine is a major coal development developing into an underground mine.
Construction smelting technology is highly energy effi cient project in Australia.
Representing a capital on the underground project was substantially and is being improved further.
An AP50 investment of US$1,290 million, it will replace completed during 2009.
First ore is expected during pilot plant is currently under construction in the nearby Blair Athol mine which ceases the first quarter of 2010 with full production expected Saguenay, Quebec, Canada.
It will be powered operations in 2016.
Clermont has contracts in in 2013.
Production from Diaviks open pit operations exclusively by hydroelectricity and become a place for the supply of thermal coal to Asian will continue until 2012 after which the mine will platform for developing future generations customers and is due to start production in transition to full production from the underground.
of the AP technology suite.
5.5 60,000 12 million million carats tonnes per annum initial capacity tonnes per annum Diavik underground development AP50 plant under construction In mine crusher and out of pit stacker 12 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review 15 5 17 12 14 9 3 16 8 6 4 5 O 5 5 5 5 Oy Oy O Oy Oy yuu u T u T u u T To Tolg olg olg olg lgo oi oi o ooi i 6 Pil 6 6 6 P P Pil Pil ilb b ba ba bara ara r ra a a 13 R 1 13 13 3 R 3 R Re Re eso es so sol ol ol lu ut u u utio ttion ion ion n n C Co C C Coopp opp opp pp ppe peer e er r r Ir Ir I Ir ro o onon n n O n O Or OrOr re e ee Co Co Co CCoppopp p pppp p peee eerrr r An Investment Agreement with the Three new mines are due to start producing The deposit is a world class porphyry copperGovernment of Mongolia was signed in 2009 ore by mid 2010: Mesa A in the Robe Valley molybdenum system.
A federal land exchange to clear the way for development of the giant RioTinto 53 per cent Brockman 4 and authorised by Congress is required for the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
The size of Western Turner Syncline both near Tom project to proceed.
It is estimated to be the the identifi ed deposits and quality of the Price.
Expansion planning was relaunched largest copper deposit in North America, ore make this a world class opportunity with in 2009 targeting an increased overall Pilbara characterised by consistent plus one per cent signifi cant exploration upside.
Production is annual production capacity of 330 million copper mineralisation over an area of at least expected to begin in 2013. tonnes by 2015. two kilometres by 1.5 kilometres.
450,000 330 million 600,000 tonnes per annum tonnes per annum by 2015 tonnes per annum Automated driverless haul trucks Headframes above mine shafts Shaft construction www.
com 13 Sustainable development At the heart of our strategy RioTintos strategy is to invest in Key achievements Key priorities large, long term, cost competitive The way we work, our global code of business Continue to reduce injury rates toward our goal of zero, including zero fatalities.
Our focus conduct, and Speak-OUT, our confi dential whistleblowing programme, were revised.
on sustainable development Implement our improved contractor safety management system and our new HSE Of the electricity we used in 2009, 70 per cent provides the framework in which framework for major project development.
was from low carbon sources, mainly hydro.
This allows Implement our wellbeing strategy to guide We achieved a 16 per cent reduction in us to maintain a highly regarded development of a global framework for local our all injury frequency rate during 2009. health and wellbeing programmes.
reputation that ensures ongoing We completed the health, safety and environment Expand our employee diversity focus to access to people, capital and HSE integration of Rio Tinto Alcan.
This in turn Rio Tinto remains the largest private sector Continue engaging on and preparing for helps us to deliver better return employer of indigenous Australians.
evolving energy and greenhouse gas GHG for our shareholders, manage risk emission regulation.
Our new global leadership competency model, Leading at Rio Tinto, was launched.
effectively, reduce environmental Embed our energy use and GHG emissions intensity reduction programmes.
Why gender matters, a resource guide for our impacts, cut operating costs, Communities work, was published.
Explore ecosystem service values of our attract and retain high calibre non operational landholdings, in particular Our Pandemic Infl uenza Preparedness Plan employees and provide more carbon, water and biodiversity opportunities.
was developed and rolled out to manage the business opportunities.
Continue to strengthen our management systems by developing and implementing We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, strategies to manage our key sustainable Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and Climate development risks and improve performance.
Disclosure Leadership Index, and ranked Support our new Group wide health, safety, fi first on the Resources Global Professionals environment and communities targets.
We deliver on these commitments through clear Strategy Goals and targets leadership accountabilities and implementing Sustainable development is an integral part of We have set 2008 2013 targets for a range of fi t for purpose management systems, internal the way in which RioTinto conducts its business, sustainable development metrics including: controls and assurance programmes that with leadership coming from the board of directors, include monitoring and reporting against the chairman and the chief executive.
Measuring progress towards our goal of relevant metrics.
Targets provide direction zero injuries and zero fatalities through internally and are used to communicate Our global code of business conduct, The our all injury frequency rate.
progress against our aspirations externally.
way we work, reinforces our commitment to Thirty per cent reduction in the rate integrate sustainable development thinking We are active in promoting transparency and of new cases of occupational illness.
in the way we make decisions about fi nding, good corporate governance more widely, and acquiring, developing, and operating assets support a number of voluntary initiatives Ten per cent reduction in the rate of around the world.
designed to counter bribery and corruption, and employees exposed to an eight hour to promote transparency and human rights.
We noise dose of more than 85 decibels.
Sound governance and high standards of were a founding supporter of the United Nations conduct are sources of competitive advantage.
Operations having in place locally Global Compact and through the International Environmental performance, community appropriate, publicly reported social Council for Mining and Metals we are a relations, employee wellbeing and transparency performance indicators that demonstrate company endorsing member of the Extractive are just as important to us as the technical a positive contribution to the economic Industries Transparency Initiative.
aspects of mining and processing.
development of the communities Richards Bay Minerals concluded its Broad and regions where we work which Governance systems Based Black Economic Empowerment are consistent with the Millennium transaction with a consortia of local The way we work reaffi rms our commitment Development Goals.
businesses and community groups during to corporate responsibility.
It is now fully empowered in accordance Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse the Group policies, standards and guidance gas emissions per unit of production.
We with the South African Mining Industry notes available on our website, and local laws are also targeting a further four per cent Charter fi five years ahead of the required date and voluntary commitments.
We build on reduction by 2015, to deliver an overall in 2014. compliance with these laws and where our ten per cent reduction.
policies and procedures are more stringent, We engage with a broad range of organisations we operate to those standards regardless of Six per cent reduction in our freshwater and individuals including our employees, use per tonne of product.
where our operations are located.
investors, governments, communities, 14 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review 0.82 0.98 1.21 1.10 1.35 Biodiversity integrity Business y t i r e p rights S Land s o Human o c i r a l p w c i e l m l engagement Water b o Stakeholder n e o i c n E g Greenhouse Closure gas and energy use View more about our approach to sustainable development at www.
com Materiality assessment We use a materiality assessment to focus our reporting on our most signifi cant sustainable development impacts.
Our assessment process has been developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 guidance on materiality and completeness.
It involves identifying issues affecting our business and its stakeholders, prioritising their importance over the next three years from internal and external perspectives and validating issue prioritisation.
Sustainable Performance data for our most material development sustainable development issues are subject to external assurance.
Omission from the material issues covered in our report does not mean that the issue is not managed by the company.
academia, industry bodies, and civil society In 2009 we continued to reduce our injury rates Social wellbeing groups to help us to identify and manage risks.
and rates of new cases of occupational illness.
We are committed to providing a safe and We are a member of a number of industry healthy workplace for our employees where Our reported occupational illnesses are mostly associations and of representative bodies their rights and dignity are respected.
We set related to stress, musculo-skeletal disorders, including the World Business Council for out to build enduring relationships with our and noise induced hearing loss.
Therefore Sustainable Development, the World Economic neighbours that demonstrate mutual respect, ongoing reductions will require further Forum and the International Chamber of active partnership, and long term commitment.
improvements in the management of risks Commerce.
posed by manual handling and noise exposure, Our goal is to achieve zero injuries and zero Integrating our multidisciplinary approach to fatalities.
We strive to create a culture where closure planning in all aspects of our business, everyone feels that they can make a difference All injury frequency rate from the earliest stages of project development in an environment where all employees and Per 200,000 hours worked to the decommissioning of facilities, is essential contractors have the knowledge, competence to leave a positive legacy of sustainable and desire to work safely.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan development, minimise unforeseen fi financial Regrettably we did not meet our goal of zero impacts and ensure stakeholder expectations fatalities in 2009.
Four people were fatally are met.
Achieving a reputation for positive injured while working at RioTinto managed closure outcomes assists us to gain access for operations.
We continue to provide support future projects.
We work together with our and counselling to the families and workmates stakeholders to identify preferred sustainable who are impacted by these incidents.
development options for closure and seek endorsement for these options.
Safety during the development of new projects, contractor safety management and aviation Rio Tinto Alcan applied a regional safety were areas of particular focus in 2009. industrial development process during the decommissioning of the Lannemezan and Resolution Copper won the US Department Anglesey smelters.
This involved engaging of Labors Mine Safety and Health with stakeholders and encouraging new Administration and the National Mining post-closure uses for industrial facilities so as Association Sentinels of Safety Award.
05 06 07 08 09 to maintain regional socio-economic benefi ts.
com 15 Community p engagement i h and regional operations s development Non managed d G r a o v w e r e Our people n t a Supply chain s n c l a e t s n Health y e s m t e n o r m i performance v s Financial n Safety E 92.5 100.0 100.0 113.1 110.2 110.8 109.4 Sustainable development continued Aviation safety champions We have taken an active role in the Flight Safety Foundation, the worlds foremost independent aviation safety organisation and co-championed development of new aviation standards for the global mining and onshore resources industry.
We also support the Australian Royal Flying Doctor Service.
The Rio Tinto Life Flight provides a free of charge emergency jet service to patients in need of evacuation when time and distance are critical.
as well as supporting healthy lifestyles through baseline, social impact and social risk of our production is a key performance workplace wellbeing programmes.
Projects are assessments to identify potential positive and indicator for the Group and we aim to improve the energy intensity of all our operations.
in development to help businesses more negative impacts of our presence.
We use this effectively manage these risks.
information along with community input to However, embedding new technologies at the develop multi-year communities plans at development stage of an operation can offer During 2009 more than 3,000 of our people each operation.
around the world signed up for our Be Active challenge.
A large number of participants Together with the local community, we We operate in an energy intensive sector and we reported sustained improvements in levels of developed and implemented infl ux and seek to improve the greenhouse gas emissions activity and perceived wellbeing.
infl ation mitigation strategies at our QMM over the full life cycle of our products.
mineral sands mining project in Madagascar.
We employ on the basis of job requirements and We use a signifi cant portfolio of hydro, nuclear do not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or and other renewable power sources in our Environmental stewardship social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics, energy mix.
We continue to proactively manage climate religion or disability.
We do not employ forced, change, water, land stewardship, biodiversity, To drive improvement in energy effi ciency bonded or child labour.
We focus on diversity mineral and non mineral waste, air quality, and our businesses have set a range of local energy internally and externally and actively favour targets that cover nearly three quarters of the closure.
These programmes include input from local employment where local candidates meet Groups energy use.
We are working to reduce our local communities as well as from experts in job requirements and laws allow.
Our workforce the energy intensity of new projects through these fi elds, and are supported by our external is aligned with our values, and represents the partnerships with BirdLife, Earthwatch, Fauna demand reduction using asset design and the diverse communities and geographies in which & Flora International and Royal Botanic development of alternative sources of energy we operate.
We are also currently developing Gardens, Kew.
Our commitments to local employment step change technologies for several of our We accept the urgent need for climate change are often managed with local people and products, including the drained cathode cell for action and recognise the issue as being one governments through directly negotiated aluminium production.
This has the potential of our greatest challenges and opportunities.
to signifi cantly reduce the amount of energy Reducing the greenhouse gas emissions intensity required to make aluminium metal.
We remain the largest private sector employer of indigenous Australians.
For commodities where processing or using our Greenhouse gas emissions intensity products is energy intensive, we are developing Indexed relative to 2008 By understanding our socio-economic lower emission technologies.
Due to global interaction with the communities where we demand, coal is likely to remain a signifi cant Rio Tinto excluding former Alcan operate we optimise benefi ts and reduce Rio Tinto including former Alcan source of energy for the foreseeable future.
negative impacts for communities and our We are therefore investing in developing and operations alike.
This interaction includes commercialising carbon capture and storage relationships with local suppliers, training CCS technology.
We continue to sponsor and local employment, support for small to collaborative CCS research and development medium enterprises, optimal distribution of through our involvement in the CO2CRCs Otway taxes and royalties, and support for multilateral Basin geosequestration demonstration project in socio-economic programmes.
Infrastructure Australia and the Global CCS Institute.
We are a developed for our mines or processing plants joint venture partner with BP in developing the can also greatly benefi t local communities and Hydrogen Energy California project.
We have systems that actively involve communities Where we can infl uence our customers, we in decision making processes about issues work to develop effi cient downstream processes, affecting them.
and our metals and minerals can bring energy and emissions benefi ts.
To enable us to target the delivery of socio- 06 05 07 08 09 economic programmes refl ecting the priorities of local communities, we conduct community 16 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review View more about our approach to sustainable development at www.
com RioTinto continues to participate in collaborative copper, coal, uranium, gold and silver.
This LCA Economic prosperity efforts to promote effective public policy work is updated regularly and the outputs are The Groups continuing fi financial success is frameworks to address climate change, key components of our product stewardship based on its ability to secure access to land, including the US Climate Action Partnership strategy.
In addition to these company activities, people and capital.
We use our expertise to and submissions on proposed legislation to RioTinto is also engaged in industry wide harness these resources, creating prosperity governments in Australia, the US, the EU and stewardship initiatives to support responsible for our shareholders, employees, communities, Canada.
A comprehensive programme is under production and help develop leading practices governments and business partners.
way to prepare the Group for proposed climate and recognised standards.
Our direct economic contribution represents change legislation.
an important injection of revenue into the local Our water strategy provides a framework for and regional economies where we operate and addressing water related business risk and includes payments to suppliers and economic improving performance, and we focus on ways value add, which is equivalent to the sum of to minimise the amount of water we remove all labour payments, the taxes and royalties from the environment, reuse it whenever we disbursed to governments and others, plus all can, and return it to the environment meeting returns to capital including interest payments, regulatory limits.
profi ts paid out to shareholders, and money retained in the business for future investment We continue to encourage and support the and to replace depreciated assets.
development of business level water strategies aligned with the RioTinto water strategy.
Water We can demonstrate that payments to suppliers management support is also being provided to constitute a strong additional benefi t to the new projects to ensure that effi cient practices are economy, generating employment and creating in place at mine commencement.
We engage with wealth in other sectors.
Our statement of governments on emerging water policy and with procurement principles is available on our organisations committed to sustainable water website.
RioTinto has developed a programme management such as the World Economic Forum.
of supplier engagement that includes sustainable development criteria in its contracts.
We manage just over 41,000 square kilometres of land, excluding our exploration leases.
In line In 2009, a A$200 million mining contract with leading practice, we aim to rehabilitate land was awarded to a joint venture between native as it comes out of mining use rather than waiting title holders the Eastern Guruma and mining services company, NRW.
The contract to build, until all operations at the site have ceased.
mine and transport iron ore from RioTintos In 2009 we formalised a programme to explore Western Turner Syncline deposit is the fi first the threats and opportunities for the Group signifi cant mining joint venture for the arising from emerging green markets in Eastern Guruma people, and continues biodiversity, carbon, water and other ecosystem the comprehensive RioTinto commitment services.
The outcomes and tools of this work to indigenous contracting in the Pilbara will be applied to our development projects to region of Western Australia.
ensure that we adopt an integrated approach We maintain a programme of developing to land management through ecosystem lifecycle assessments LCA for all of our major service assessment.
products, including aluminium, iron ore, The potential for impact on biodiversity can make our projects potentially sensitive for regulators, local communities, investors, non An exemplary record government organisations and employees.
RioTintos long term success depends on our QIT Madagascar Minerals ability to understand and manage these issues.
Our biodiversity strategy was launched in 2004 QITs Madagascar mining operation to provide a framework to do this.
A key aspect QMM won South Africas 2009 of the strategy is our goal to have a net positive Nedbank Environmental Award, impact on biodiversity.
recognising a company which has In 2009 we fi nalised a methodology for made a signifi cant effort in terms developing biodiversity action plans.
This work of protecting or improving the was completed in collaboration with Fauna & biophysical environment in which Flora International FFI.
A copy is available on it operates.
Picture shows the the FFI website www.
We are fi nalising a formal partnership with the IUCN, the worlds largest conservation union, focusing on bilateral capacity building, notably with regard to ecosystem services valuation and emerging green markets.
com 17 View more about our Aluminium business at www.
com Aluminium Transforming the Aluminium business Rio Tinto Alcan is a global leader in the aluminium industry.
It mines high quality bauxite, refi fines alumina for both primary aluminium production and specialty alumina markets, and produces primary aluminium at some of the lowest cost, most technologically advanced smelters in the industry.
The group is renowned for its technology leadership as well as its advantaged renewable energy assets.
Jacynthe Ct, chief executive, RioTinto Alcan Strategy Key priorities Operational highlights Deliver on our baseline commitments Improve safety performance towards the including customer service, sustainable objective of zero harm.
US$ million development, and ensuring the safety Maintain focus on transformational change Revenue 12,038 of our employees.
to enhance margins, reduce operating costs Operating cash fl ow 875 Continue our journey of transformation and optimise effi ciencies at all operations Underlying earnings 578 and deliver on cost improvements.
Capital expenditure 1,690 Net operating assets 35,992 Surpass our synergy target and complete Continue to align production levels with the integration process, which includes market requirements.
Drive additional value growth initiatives such Operating cash flow contribution Protect and enhance our superior growth as capital effi ciency projects and research and options while preserving cash.
Strategically progress on key projects including Achievements the Yarwun 2 expansion project Australia, A reduction of 22 per cent in the all injury Kitimat Modernisation Project, AP50 pilot frequency rate from 2008 to 2009.
6% plant and Shipshaw optimisation Canada.
Delivered after tax synergy benefi ts of Outlook US$924 million during 2009 with an annualised sustainable run rate of Rio Tinto Alcan remains committed to US$1.1 billion at the end of 2009. delivering on operational effi ciencies and improving its baseline cost structure.
Transformational change to both Underlying earnings contribution administrative and production costs Major cost reduction measures and further 2007 2009 US$m drove further effi ciencies across the aligning production with market demands 0 2007 entire organisation.
are expected to position Rio Tinto Alcan 1,040 207 Prices and exchange to continue to lead the restructured global Strategically managed sustaining capital 55 Inflation aluminium industry going forward.
expenditure allocations: completed value 1,073 Volume 86 Costs improvement exercises at major capital To build stronger margins and to ensure a 495 Tax and other project sites to improve long term costs.
surplus in bauxite and alumina, the group 1,271 2008 holds the worlds largest bauxite reserves and 2,243 Adjusted production of bauxite, alumina Prices and exchange a competitive position in the alumina sector.
4 Inflation and aluminium to align with the downturn 41 Volume in market demand.
Carbon trading and emissions regulations 233 Costs will factor strongly in the coming years, 206 584 Tax and other particularly in OECD countries, and the 578 2009 groups AP technology and clean energy 2007 comparatives have been restated to remove Engineered Products.
sources are expected to provide advantages A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings in a carbon constrained marketplace.
for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22 of the Annual report.
All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
18 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review View more about our Copper business at www.
com Copper Growth through innovation RioTintos Copper group is a world leader in copper production.
Operations include Kennecott Utah Copper in the US and interests in the producing copper mines of Escondida in Chile, Grasberg in Indonesia, Northparkes in Australia and Palabora in South Africa.
In 2009, the group produced approximately 800,000 tonnes of copper, which places it among the top fi five copper producers in the world.
Andrew Harding, chief executive, RioTinto Copper Strategy Key priorities Operational highlights Deliver shareholder value by signifi cantly Exceed the improved safety performance in 2009 with a focus on embedding process increasing copper production in the US$ million safety risk reviews.
Revenue 6,206 Development of the world class Oyu Tolgoi Operating cash fl ow 2,223 Be an innovative, disciplined acquirer copper-gold deposit in Mongolia.
Underlying earnings 1,866 and developer of value creating assets.
Capital expenditure 553 At KUC, progress the molybdenum autoclave Optimise and develop the groups Net operating assets 5,028 project and continue life of mine extension existing assets.
Continue to invest in innovative technologies Complete the Northparkes E48 development Operating cash flow contribution such as block caving and sulphide leaching and ramp up to full production.
to maintain leadership in the mines of the future.
The Copper Projects function will maintain and maximise options around key projects Leverage the diverse portfolio of producing and pursue opportunities to accelerate the and developing mines to adapt to changing start of production.
16% Outlook Achievements Industry fundamentals support a strong At Kennecott Utah Copper KUC, the outlook on price, with robust long term concentrator set multiple plant production demand and supply side constraints.
records, including total ore milled and copper in concentrate produced.
Continued price volatility with upside potential.
Underlying earnings contribution Also at KUC, the resource development team Industry will be challenged by mines of 2007 2009 US$m identifi ed a new  increasing depth, decreasing grade profi les 0 3,479 2007 porphyry system.
and increasing exposure to higher risk regions.
185 Prices and exchange 49 KUC and Escondida both successfully negotiated Gradual transition to underground mines Inflation 963 Volume new mutually benefi cial collective bargaining which require higher capital costs and 620 Costs agreements with their work forces in 2009. investment in innovative technologies.
66 Tax and other 1,597 2008 A landmark investment agreement with 487 Prices and exchange the Government of Mongolia progressed 40 Inflation the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project.
556 Volume RioTinto increased its stake in Ivanhoe Mines 304 Costs to 19.7 per cent.
64 Tax and other 2009 1,866 Kennecott Eagle Minerals successfully A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings addressed certain key legal challenges for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on to its mine permits in the US.
page 22 of the Annual report.
com 19 View more about our Diamonds & Minerals business at www.
com Diamonds & Minerals Differentiation in the marketplace The Diamonds & Minerals group comprises diamonds, borates, talc, titanium dioxide feedstock, high purity iron, zircon and rutile mining and refi ning operations.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is a global supplier of rough diamonds.
Rio Tinto Minerals is a global leader in borates and talc supply, and Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium is a market leader in titanium dioxide feedstock.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals Business improvement programmes delivered Strategy signifi cant cost reductions in response to Operational highlights To safely and effi ciently maximise global economic conditions.
US$ million To be the preferred supplier of natural rough Key priorities Revenue 2,618 diamonds, borates, talc and titanium dioxide.
Continue to strive for zero harm to people Operating cash fl ow 528 across all operations.
Underlying earnings 800 To be responsible and transparent in relations Capital expenditure 519 with neighbouring communities.
Manage production and maximise cash Net operating assets 4,612 fl ow in line with global economic recovery.
To differentiate in the marketplace through superior service and technical support.
Continue to operate in a responsible and Operating cash flow contribution sustainable manner.
To continue to invest in growth projects in the existing businesses and seek Tier 1 Continue to differentiate Rio Tinto from other development opportunities in new diamond and industrial minerals suppliers mineral sectors.
by providing superior product quality, supply reliability and customer service.
Key achievements Retain and continue to develop the 4% First shipments of ilmenite from QIT best people.
Outlook Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment restructuring completed at Richards Bay The diverse markets being served by the Minerals.
groups operations continue to be affected by the health of the global economy.
EBITDA for Rio Tinto Minerals RTM Underlying earnings contribution maintained at 2008 levels through strong In Diamonds, rough prices are expected 2007 2009 US$m cost reductions and positive pricing despite to improve during 2010 although this is 0 signifi cantly lower volumes.
483 2007 dependent on the recovery in the US and 331 Prices and exchange consumption from emerging markets.
Licences renewed for Jadar lithium-borate 50 Inflation development project in Serbia.
Market weakness in the minerals businesses 49 Volume 167 Costs in 2009 is expected to slowly reverse in Potasio Rio Colorado PRC project in 74 Tax and other 2010, with more rapid recovery in Asia and Argentina and a second potash project 474 2008 emerging economies.
298 Prices and exchange near Regina in Canada sold to Vale for a 24 Inflation Declines in the housing and automotive combined gain of US$797 million, included 245 Volume sectors will potentially be offset to some in underlying earnings.
88 Costs degree by government incentive programmes, 805 Tax and other Construction of Diavik Diamonds but will continue to affect sales.
800 2009 underground mine in Canada substantially A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings completed.
All amounts presented by the product Progressed the Bunder hard rock diamond groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
20 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review View more about our Energy business at www.
com Energy Strong production and sales The Energy group comprises thermal coal, coking coal and uranium operations.
Coal interests are located in Australia and the US supplying seaborne traded and domestic markets.
RioTinto is one of the worlds largest uranium producers and supplies uranium oxide from its majority owned mines in Australia and Namibia to electric power utilities worldwide.
Doug Ritchie, chief executive, Energy Maximising free cash fl ow.
Strategy Operational highlights The Energy groups core purpose is to maximise Continuing to operate in a responsible and the value it creates for shareholders from sustainable manner.
US$ million supplying the worlds mineable energy needs.
Revenue 6,709 Timely delivery of current expansion projects.
The group focuses its resources on excellence Operating cash fl ow 2,576 Continuing work with industry, government in operations: large scale, long life, cost Underlying earnings 1,420 and infrastructure providers to resolve coal chain competitive assets.
Capital expenditure 686 bottlenecks and increase export capacities.
Net operating assets 2,538 Opportunities for brownfi eld expansions are Positioning the group as the supplier of being progressed across the business.
choice as the global economy recovers.
Operating cash flow contribution Achievements Retaining and continuing to develop the Australian thermal and semi soft coal best people.
production of 37.4 million tonnes Rio Tinto Aligning business growth strategies with share 23.1 million tonnes a fi five per cent climate change and energy strategy.
Record production and sales results 19% Outlook throughout the year from many operations.
Rio Tinto believes the outlook for seaborne coal remains very positive.
Safety performance improved at most operations.
The supply-demand balance for both thermal and metallurgical coals remains Successful divestment of numerous energy assets in line with the Group divestment tight and towards the end of 2009 prices Underlying earnings contribution were increasing across all types of coal.
2007 2009 US$m The rising domestic prices in China have 0 Separation from RTEA and transition to a 498 2007 standalone business in 2009 by Colowyo supported the demand for imported coal, Prices and exchange 1,623 Coal Company.
while traditional importing markets continue 51 Inflation to increase imports in line with a broader 1,042 177 Volume A milestone achievement of 100 indigenous economic recovery.
257 Costs employees at ERA, representing almost 20 per Tax and other 77 cent of ERAs workforce.
A resurgence globally in nuclear power is 2008 2,581 under way, driven in large part by the need 2,243 592 Prices and exchange Continued delivery of operational 54 for energy security and baseload electricity Inflation excellence programmes in all businesses 67 Volume generation that minimises emissions of to systematically eliminate waste, reduce 136 Costs greenhouse gases.
584 process variability, and engage and empower Tax and other 1,420 2009 our workforce.
Uranium prices are likely to increase if many A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings new uranium projects, which were looking less for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on Key priorities fi nancially attractive due to the effect of weaker page 22 of the Annual report.
Continuing to improve HSE performance, uranium prices, are delayed.
com 21 View more about our Iron Ore business at www.
com Iron Ore Record performance, strong outlook RioTintos Iron Ore group is the second largest producer supplying the global seaborne iron ore trade, having expanded its capacity over the past decade in tandem with the rise of China as the worlds largest and fastest growing market.
The group is the largest contributor to RioTintos earnings, and remains ideally placed to take advantage of the continued recovery and growth of the worlds leading economies.
Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia Building on 2009s success in removing Strategy bottlenecks to achieve sustained production Operational highlights The strategy is to maximise the return to at or above nameplate capacity.
shareholders from iron ore assets worldwide.
US$ million Fully extracting benefi ts from operations Focus will remain on reducing costs and Revenue 12,598 integration though advances such as the building on cash generation initiatives.
Operating cash fl ow 7,389 Operations Centre and improved planning Underlying earnings 4,126 Increasing or maintaining return from and scheduling.
Capital expenditure 2,148 existing assets through brownfi eld Continuing to i mprov e the business safety Net operating assets 11,263 developments where possible, particularly performance, notwithstanding the escalation to contribute to sustaining capacity.
of business activity and expansion work.
Advancement of expansions under study Operating cash flow contribution Securing approval for and implementing the to achieve 330 million tonnes per annum proposed production joint venture in the capacity in the Pilbara by 2015, within Pilbara with BHP Billiton.
Advancing the Orissa, India, and Simandou, Continue detailed planning on integration Guinea, development projects.
for implementation of the proposed Pilbara 53% production joint venture with BHP Billiton, Outlook as various regulatory approvals are sought.
The outlook for global iron ore remains very positive, with seaborne iron ore trade Achievements continuing to expand to meet major Global iron ore production of more than 217 Asian demand.
million tonnes Rio Tinto share 171.5 million tonnes, a 12 per cent increase on 2008.
Underlying earnings contribution Growth fundamentals remain unchanged 2007 2009 US$m from before the fi financial crisis, and continue Maintained integrity of operations despite to be dominated by the rise of China, where 0 weather and global fi financial crisis setbacks.
3,654 Prices and exchange Milestone of three billion tonnes exported Chinas increase in steel intensity is following 71 Inflation from Rio Tintos operations in the Pilbara.
or exceeding market expectations, and Rio 165 Volume 446 Yandicoogina became the fi first mine in Australia Costs Tinto expects steel consumption to double by 51 Tax and other to record 50 million tonnes annual production.
India is expected to follow that same 6,017 2008 path, though at a less rapid pace.
Operations Centre established for remote 2,920 Prices and exchange 22 Inflation control of mines, rail and ports.
Growth in the more stable markets of Japan, 694 Volume Korea, Taiwan, Western Europe and North 352 Costs Key priorities America should remain relatively constant.
5 Tax and other Achieving a proper, expeditious and fair 4,126 2009 resolution of the case of the four Shanghai A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings marketing colleagues detained by China in for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22 of the Annual report.
All amounts presented by the product July 2009. groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
22 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review View more about our Exploration and Technology & Innovation businesses at www.
com Exploration Growth through discovery and acquisition The purpose of exploration is to add value to the Group by discovering or acquiring resources that can increase future cash fl ows.
Greenfi eld exploration programmes are prioritised on a global basis so that only the most attractive opportunities are pursued.
Investment decisions are driven not by location or choice of commodity, but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
The Exploration group is organised geographically into regional multi-commodity teams, with head offi ces in London, Salt Lake City and Brisbane.
In the brownfi eld environment, the Leisker iron 2009 operating performance Outlook ore deposit in the Pilbara, Australia, was handed The Exploration group all injury frequency rate has The Exploration group will explore for a range over to RioTinto Iron Ore.
In Utah, US, drilling fallen from 0.97 at the end of 2008 to 0.61 at the of commodities across at least 17 countries in within 3km of the Bingham Canyon copper end of 2009.
This improvement has in part come 2010.
Continued improvement in commodity mine identifi ed a new  a reduction in the scope of fi eld activities, but demand forecasts will underpin the reactivation gold porphyry system.
Delineation drilling of major drilling programmes to advance the also refl ects a focus on reducing injuries through is now under way with numerous other enhanced contractor management.
Tamarack nickel-copper and Amargosa bauxite geophysical targets within the Bingham mine projects to decision points in 2010.
Focus will orbit to be tested in 2010.
The Tier 1 greenfi eld lithium borate deposit at also be placed on reinvigorating the early stage Jadar, Serbia, was transferred to the Diamonds & Gross cash expenditure on exploration and target generation and testing required for Minerals Product Group for further evaluation.
evaluation in 2009 was US$514 million.
The Crowsnest coking coal deposit in British decrease of US$620 million over 2008 gross Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue where Columbia, Canada, was identifi ed as a non core expenditure refl ects steps taken across the asset and has been prepared for divestment.
real value can be realised, with a target of 100 Group to reduce controllable cash costs.
Gross Options for progressing the Altai Nuurs per cent of the annual greenfi eld exploration expenditures are offset by US$894 million coking coal deposit in Mongolia continue budget being returned to the Group.
pre-tax proceeds from the divestment of to be assessed.
Technology & Innovation Delivering step change to confer advantage Technology & Innovation T&I consists of a central team of technology professionals and a number of technology centres that develop leading practice and promote Group wide improvements.
Emphasis is given to shared and visible measures of operational effectiveness, the improvement of analytical tools and development of staff capabilities.
The centres within T&I include: Mineral Technology Services Centre Project Development Centre provides comprises a central team of technology guidance, support and training for all aspects Innovation Centre identifi es, evaluates professionals who partner with business units of capital projects, from pre-feasibility and implements value accretive step in delivery of large, measureable increases in through to execution and commissioning.
change mining technologies with Group earnings and value.
Technical Risk Evaluation Centre ensures wide application including continued Asset Management Centre focuses on the that RioTintos investment decisions are pursuit of the strategic Mine of the effective choice, deployment, reliability and based on independent, thorough technical Future programme.
performance of the Groups equipment for review and evaluation and provides advice Energy & Climate Strategy Centre leads the mining and processing.
on the adequacy of risk identifi cation and Groups response to the challenges of climate mitigation at key points in the project Mining Technology Centre establishes change by engaging with governments and approvals process.
leading practice and develops, shares and other stakeholders on the design of climate implements Group wide solutions in the policy, develops internal strategies to reduce core mining production processes of surface energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions, mining, underground mining, strategic resource and identifi es low carbon pathways for the development, resource and reserve estimation, Groups products.
orebody knowledge and mine planning.
com 23 Board of directors and executive committee Leading Rio Tinto into the future The board of directors is composed of 15 directors, whose expertise cover a broad range of industries and provide an invaluable perspective on Rio Tintos business.
ne e e ne 12 3 ne 4 ne e e ne 5 6 7 ne ne ne 8 10 9 ne ne ne 11 12 13 ne e e ne 14 15 16 24 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review The executive committee also proposes fundamental fi financial and business strategies and corporate actions to the board.
The team leads with both experience and expertise.
e e e 17 18 19 e e e 20 21 22 Key e e 23 24 ne Non executive director e Executive director e Executive committee member Board of directors Executive committee members 1.
Jan du Plessis, B. Com, LLB, CA SA, chairman, age 56 11.
Andrew Gould, BA, FCA non executive, age 63 17.
Hugo Bague, MA Linguistics, group executive People and Organisation, age 49 2.
Tom Albanese, BS Mineral Economics, 12.
Lord Kerr of Kinlochard, GCMG, MA.
Preston Chiaro, BSc Hons Environmental MS Mining Engineering, chief executive, age 52 Engineering, MEng Environmental Engineering, group 13.
David Mayhew, non executive, age 69 executive Technology & Innovation, age 56 3.
Sir David Clementi, MA, MBA, FCA, non executive, 14.
Bret Clayton, BA Accounting, group executive, Business non executive, age 70 Support & Operations, age 48 4.
Vivienne Cox, MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD, non executive, 15.
Sam Walsh, B Com Melbourne, executive director and age 50 20.
Jacynthe Ct, BChem, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan.
age 52 chief executive Iron Ore, age 60 5.
Sir Rod Eddington, B Eng, M Eng Western Australia, 21.
Andrew Harding, BEng Mining Engineering, MBA 16.
Robert Brown, BSc, non executive, age 65 Robert Browns D Phil Oxon, non executive, age 60 Business Administration, chief executive, Copper, age 43 appointment will become effective on 1 April 2010 6.
Guy Elliott, MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD, chief fi financial 22.
Harry Kenyon-Slaney, BSc Hons Geology, chief executive, Diamonds & Minerals, age 49 offi cer, age 54 23.
Doug Ritchie, LLB, FAusIMM, FAICD, chief executive, 7.
Michael Fitzpatrick, B Eng Western Australia, BA Oxon, Energy, age 53 non executive, age 57 24.
Debra Valentine, BA History, JD Yale Law, group 8.
Yves Fortier, CC, OQ, QC, LLD, Av Em, non executive, executive, Legal & External Affairs, age 56 age 74 Company secretaries 9.
Ann Godbehere, FCGA, non executive, age 54 Ben Mathews, BA Hons, FCIS, company secretary 10.
Richard Goodmanson, MBA, BEc and BCom, B Eng Civil, Rio Tinto plc, age 43 non executive, age 62 Stephen Consedine, B Bus, CPA, company secretary Rio Tinto Limited, age 48 View more about our board of directors and executive committee at www.
com 25 Summary governance and remuneration report The directors report and corporate governance the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations investments and acquisitions and is available on statement are set out in the 2009 Annual report committee which does not develop corporate the corporate governance section of the website.
which can be found on the Companys website.
governance principles for the boards approval.
In line with its principal role, the board The board itself performs this task and approves is ultimately accountable to Rio Tintos Principal activities and review of business the Groups overall system of governance and shareholders for the performance of the internal controls.
Rio Tinto is a leading international business business.
Responsibility for day to day involved in each stage of metal and mineral management of the business is undertaken Board production including the production of through delegated authority and rests with the aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, iron ore, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a chief executive who in turn has established an uranium, gold and industrial minerals.
Details common board of directors.
The board is executive team, the Executive committee, with of the Groups activities and performance for responsible for the success of the Group and is authorities delegated to individual executives the year and future objectives are set out in the accountable to shareholders for the performance within an agreed fi financial control framework.
chairman and chief executives statements and of the business.
Their details are listed on pages 24 and 25 with the section entitled Key development projects.
full details available in either the Annual Report Membership or on the Companys website.
Dividends The board currently consists of 15 directors: the The board meets regularly in order to effectively Further to the rights issue described in the chairman, three executive directors and 11 non conduct its business.
In 2009, there were eight chief fi financial offi cers review on page 9, the executive directors, of whom ten are deemed scheduled board meetings and eight board Group did not pay an interim dividend for 2009. independent.
Brief details of the directors are meetings convened and held at short notice.
The The fi final and total dividend for 2009 will be listed on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual review number of meetings held in 2009 is a refl ection US 45 cents.
The fi final dividends payable to with full details available either in the Annual of the considerable corporate activity of the shareholders of 28.84 pence or 51.56 Australian report or on the Companys website.
All of the board during the year, particularly in relation cents per share will be paid on 1 April 2010. directors were in offi ce throughout the year to merger and acquisition matters, including apart from Sam Walsh, who joined the board the proposed Western Australian Iron Ore joint Corporate governance statement on 5 June 2009 as executive director and Ann venture and the recapitalisation of the Groups Godbehere who was appointed a non executive The boards of Rio Tinto fi rmly believe that balance sheet.
Robert Brown will high standards of corporate governance form also join the board as a non executive director an essential underpinning to the delivery of Board committees with effect from 1 April 2010.
Rio Tintos core objective: to maximise total Rio Tinto has fi five board committees: the return to shareholders through a strategy of Sam Walsh, Ann Godbehere and Robert Audit committee, Remuneration committee, investing in and operating large, long term, cost Brown will stand for election at the 2010 Nominations committee, the Committee on competitive mines and businesses driven not by annual general meetings while Guy Elliott, social and environmental accountability and choice of commodity but rather by the quality of Mike Fitzpatrick and Lord Kerr are due to the Chairmans committee.
retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer plays a key role in helping the board ensure themselves for re-election.
Sir David Clementi Rio Tinto is a dual listed company but structured that high standards of corporate governance and David Mayhew will retire as directors at as a single economic entity.
It has adopted are maintained throughout the Group.
Each the conclusion of the 2010 annual general a unifi ed approach to corporate governance committee is governed by terms of reference meetings.
The board will then comprise 14 to comply with the regulatory obligations which are reviewed annually by the committees directors, of whom ten will be independent associated with its three main stock exchange and the board to ensure they continue to meet non executive directors.
listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
requirements and be at the forefront of best practice.
The current terms of reference can Role and responsibilities Compliance statements be viewed in the corporate governance The principal role of the board is to set the Throughout the year the Company has section of the website.
Groups core objective and to regularly review fully complied with both the provisions set its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on also has responsibility for the establishment Corporate Governance, published by the UK and maintenance of effective standards Financial Reporting Council the Code and the of corporate governance across the Group Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate and oversees managements control and Governance Principles and Recommendations accountability framework.
of matters specifi cally reserved for decision Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American or consideration by the board as a whole has Depositary Shares listed on the New York been agreed by the directors.
This schedule Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE covers areas such as the Groups strategy, major Standards to disclose any signifi cant ways in which its practises of corporate governance Members of the board committees differ from the NYSE standards.
Committee on social Remuneration and environmental Nominations The Company has reviewed the NYSE standards Audit committee committee accountability committee Chairmans committee and believes that its practises are broadly Sir David Clementi Andrew Gould Richard Jan du Plessis Jan du Plessis consistent with them with one exception.
The chairman chairman Goodmanson chairman chairman NYSE Standards state that companies must chairman have a nominating corporate governance Vivienne Cox Sir David Clementi Sir Rod Eddington All non executive Tom Albanese committee composed entirely of independent directors directors, with written terms of reference Michael Fitzpatrick Michael Fitzpatrick Yves Fortier Guy Elliott which, in addition to identifying individuals Ann Godbehere Richard Lord Kerr qualifi ed to become board members, develops chairman designate Goodmanson and recommends to the board a set of Lord Kerr Paul Tellier corporate governance principles applicable to Paul Tellier 26 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Political, legal and commercial instability or and mitigation of risks.
The directors confi rm Board performance evaluation community disputes in the countries and that they have completed their annual review and Each year, the board undertakes a process territories in which the Group operates: assessment for 2009. to evaluate its effectiveness and that of the board committees and individual directors.
Business and growth prospects may be Internal risk controls systems Each non executive directors performance is negatively affected by reductions in the Two of the Groups management committees, appraised personally by the chairman, and, in Groups capital expenditure programme: the Executive committee and the Disclosure and a meeting chaired by the senior independent Exploration and development of new projects procedures committee regularly review reports non executive director, the non executive might be unsuccessful, expenditure may not related to the Groups control framework.
Each directors assess the chairmans performance, be fully recovered and depleted ore reserves year, the leaders of the Groups businesses taking into consideration the views of executive may not be replaced.
and administrative offi ces complete an colleagues.
For 2009, the board and board internal control questionnaire that seeks to These and other possible risks to the Group are committee evaluation process took the form confi rm that adequate internal controls are identifi ed in more detail in the Principal risks of a detailed questionnaire circulated to all in place, are operating effectively and are and uncertainties section of the Annual report members of the board.
The board questionnaire designed to capture and evaluate failings and and are available on our website.
invited comments on a number of key areas, weaknesses, if any exist, and take prompt including board dynamics, board capability, action, as appropriate.
Once reviewed by the Risk management policies and approach board process, board structure, corporate Executive committee, the results of this process governance, strategic clarity and alignment, Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral are presented to the Audit committee and and unavoidable component of the business, and the performance of individual committees board as a further part of their review of the and that it is characterised by both threat and and directors.
The results of the questionnaire Groups internal controls.
The Group fosters a risk aware formed the basis of discussions led by the including internal auditors and sustainable corporate culture in all decision making, and is chairman with each individual director which development auditors, perform reviews of their committed to managing all risk in a proactive also provided the chairman with an opportunity integrity and effectiveness of control activities and effective manner through competent risk to provide feedback on their individual and provide regular written and oral reports to management.
To support this commitment, risk performance.
Following the conclusion of this directors and management committees.
is analysed in order to inform the management exercise, the board held a dedicated session decisions taken at all levels within the at one of its scheduled meetings to discuss Financial reporting organisation.
The principles of the risk analysis the output from its performance evaluation Internal control and management process are set out in the Risk and to agree a number of actions.
policy and standard which is in the corporate Management is responsible for establishing governance section of the website.
For the board committees, a similar questionnaire and maintaining adequate internal control was produced in agreement with the committee over fi financial reporting.
Internal control over Roles and responsibilities chairman and was circulated to each committee fi financial reporting is a process designed under member and regular attendees.
The questionnaire The Risk policy and standard is supported by an the supervision of the chief executive and chief invited comments on a number of areas, including integrated framework of risk governance and fi financial offi cer to provide reasonable assurance the role and responsibilities of the committee, reporting specifying how the Group organises regarding the reliability of fi financial reporting its organisation and effectiveness and the the handling of risk.
Together with the policy, and the preparation and fair presentation of the the supporting roles and infrastructure, the qualifi cations of its members.
The results of the Groups published fi financial statements for external framework makes up the complete Rio Tinto questionnaires were presented for discussion and reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
debate at meetings of the Audit and Remuneration approach to risk analysis and management.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal committees and the Committee on social and The directors are responsible for the Groups control over fi financial reporting cannot provide environmental accountability.
Actions were agreed system of internal controls and for reviewing absolute assurance, and may not prevent or from this process and are in the course of being annually its effectiveness in providing detect all misstatements whether caused by implemented.
shareholders with a return on their investments error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto that is consistent with a responsible assessment plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
In respect of the chairmans own performance evaluation, the senior independent director discussed and agreed with the other non Governance structure executive directors that no individual performance evaluation of the chairman would be undertaken for the period since his Board of directors appointment to that role on 20 April 2009.
Such Board committees an evaluation will be undertaken in 2010.
Risk management Committee on The directors recognise that creating Audit Remuneration social and Nominations Chairmans shareholder return is the reward for taking and environmental committee committee committee committee accepting risk.
The directors have established accountability a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business risks faced by the Group.
Some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto include: Executive committee Management committees Uncertainty over commodity prices and demand for the Groups products: Continued growth in demand for the Groups Closure Continuous Disclosure & Finance Investment Ore reserves products in China which could be affected by committee disclosure procedures committee committee steering future developments in that country: committee committee committee Exposure to fl uctuations in exchange rates: www.
com 27 Summary governance and remuneration report continued Executives remuneration Remuneration policy During 2009, RioTinto undertook a comprehensive review of its short term incentive plan and the performance condition for the performance share plan.
During the process, the Company consulted with shareholders in making changes to remuneration arrangements to enhance alignment with business strategy and shareholder value creation over the short, medium and long term and to be market competitive.
Rio Tinto will review its long term incentive plan during 2010.
Offering remuneration which is appropriately competitive is an important part of RioTintos remuneration policy.
RioTintos primary comparator market, for executives, is the median remuneration offered by other large global organisations as represented by the FTSE 30 excluding fi financial services.
Consideration is also given to remuneration practices in the local market where each role is based.
The following table provides details of the operation of the current remuneration arrangements and details of how these will operate from 2010 onwards.
Objective of component 2009 policy 2010 onwards Provides the fi xed element of the Salaries frozen since March 2008 Salaries will remain frozen in 2010 Salary fi xed remuneration package for executives Target median of international companies of similar size, global reach and complexity including other large natural resource companies Focuses participants on achieving Maximum STIP opportunity of 120 per cent Maximum STIP opportunity of 200 per Short-term incentive calendar year performance goals of salary and 60 per cent of salary awarded cent of salary with 50 per cent payable in plan STIP which contribute to sustainable for target performance cash and 50 per cent delivered in shares at risk shareholder value Payable wholly in cash generally subject to continued employment Performance targets include earnings, cash fl ow, deferred for a three year period safety and individual performance objectives Increased focus on fi financial earnings and cash fl ow targets Safety continues to be an integral part of the STIP framework Rewards participants for increasing Market value share options vest based on TSR No changes Performance Options the share price and delivering performance against the HSBC Global Mining Whilst options will be granted to members Share Option Plan strong TSR performance against Index as at 31 December of the third year after grant of the executive committee in 2010, the SOP other companies Target and maximum face value of 300 per cent longer-term use of the SOP will be reviewed at risk of salary in the context of changing tax legislation Before awards vest the Committee must also satisfy in Australia itself that TSR performance is an appropriate refl ection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly Rewards participants for Conditional share awards vest based on TSR ranking No changes to the length of the Performance Shares increasing the share price against a bespoke comparator group of eight other performance period or the overall Mining Companies and delivering strong TSR mining companies as at 31 December of the fourth individual plan limits Comparative Plan performance against other year after grant Performance measures amended to: MCCP companies Target award equal to face value of 200 per cent of 50 per cent performance relative to base salary the HSBC Global Mining Index at risk 150 per cent of target award vesting for being ranked fi first 50 per cent performance relative to ie A maximum award of 300 per cent of base salary the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index 23 per cent of the maximum potential award vests for MSCI median performance 150 per cent of target award vesting for Before awards vest the Committee must also satisfy itself outperformance of the relevant index by that TSR performance is an appropriate refl ection of the eight per cent per annum top quartile underlying performance of the business and can adjust 23 per cent of the maximum potential vesting accordingly award vest for index performance Zero per cent vesting below Index Before awards vest the committee must also satisfy itself that TSR performance is an appropriate refl ection of the underlying performance of the business and can adjust vesting accordingly Enhance the Groups ability Executive directors and product group chief executive MSP awards granted to Group executives Service Awards to attract and retain key staff offi cers PGCEOs are not eligible to participate in will be subject to performance criteria, Management in an increasingly tight and awards under this plan as a regular component of other than in exceptional circumstances Share Plan MSP competitive labour market remuneration.
Special awards, if any, will generally eg recruitment usually service based have performance conditions Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new shares are issued to satisfy awards Provides locally competitive Post employment benefi t arrangements offered No change Post Employment post-employment benefi ts for Benefi ts fi xed participants in a cost effi cient manner Provides alignment with Two times salary over a fi five year period for executive Requirement extended to the Shareholding shareholders interests directors and PGCEOs Executive committee requirement 28 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Executives remuneration Long term 6 Short term benefi ts benefi ts Post employment benefi ts Value of Other post Gains on Other share based Pension and employment Termination Total exercise of Value of 1 2 3,4 5 Stated in US$000 Base salary Cash bonus benefi ts awards superannuation benefi ts benefi ts remuneration share options vested LTIP Executive directors Tom Albanese 2009 1,421 947 331 5,284 1,056 9,039 1,162 Guy Elliott 2009 1,057 888 192 3,680 389 6,206 17 1,050 Dick Evans 2009 1,500 5,491 422 6,356 342 14,111 Sam Walsh 2009 1,167 1,170 91 3,517 313 6,258 3 880 Other key management personnel Hugo Bague 2009 564 752 349 821 41 2,527 495 Preston Chiaro 2009 725 390 575 2,941 218 4,849 2 882 Bret Clayton 2009 700 534 444 2,015 129 1 3,823 381 Jacynthe Ct 2009 813 2,226 27 1,778 364 3 5,211 294 Andrew Harding 2009 421 596 298 671 67 2,053 297 Keith Johnson 2009 383 287 97 3,031 158 1,357 5,313 Harry Kenyon-Slaney 2009 418 362 138 692 88 1,698 355 Doug Ritchie 2009 581 986 25 1,163 164 2,919 487 Grant Thorne 2009 728 593 5 1,750 188 3,264 736 Debra Valentine 2009 570 468 543 777 163 8 2,529 Total 2009 11,048 15,690 3,537 34,476 3,680 12 1,357 69,800 754 6,283 Notes to executives remuneration 1.
The total remuneration is reported in US dollars.
The amounts can be converted into sterling at the rate of US$1 0.6389, into Australian dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.2637or alternatively into Canadian dollars at the rate of US$1 C$1.13740, each being the average exchange rate for 2009.
The annual cash bonus is payable under the STIP and this may be converted at the 2009 year end exchange rate of US$1 0.6222 to ascertain the sterling equivalent, US$1 A$1.1179 to calculate the Australian dollar value or alternatively, US$1 C$1.0546 to calculate the Canadian dollar value.
Cash bonus includes STIP and other special one-off bonuses.
Other cash based benefi ts include cash in lieu of a car and fuel and cash in lieu of holiday.
Non monetary benefi ts for executives include healthcare, the provision of company provided transport, fl exible perquisites and secondment costs comprising housing, education, professional advice, tax equalisation and relocation payments made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
The value of share based awards has been determined in accordance with the recognition and measurement requirements of IFRS2 Share-based Payment.
The fair value of awards granted under the Share Option Plan SOP, the Management Share Plan MSP, the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP and the Share Savings Plan SSP have been calculated at their dates of grant using an independent latticebased option valuation model provided by external consultants, Lane Clark and Peacock LLP.
Some of these awards will be settled in cash, rather than the transfer of shares, and so the fair value of these cash settled awards has been calculated based on Rio Tintos share price at 31 December 2009.
The fair value of awards granted under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan the MCCP has been calculated using a Monte Carlo valuation model based on the market price of shares and their relative TSR performance at 31 December 2009.
Over 2009, the increase in Rio Tintos share price, has led to a signifi cant increase in the value attached to the MCCP under the IFRS2 accounting standard.
Further details of the valuation methods and assumptions used for these awards are included in note 49 Share Based Payments in the 2009 fi financial statements.
The fair value of other share based awards is measured at the purchase cost of the shares from the market.
The costs shown for defi ned benefi t pension plans and post retirement medical benefi ts are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
Non executive directors remuneration Performance of Rio Tinto The Companies share prices showed strong improvement in 2009 Short term benefi ts as a result of Rio Tintos cost containment measures, completion of Other Non cash based monetary Total divestments and the strengthening of the balance sheet.
1 2 3 4 Stated in US$000 Fees benefi ts benefi ts remuneration The graph illustrates the performance of the Group against the FTSE Chairman Jan du Plessis 2009 808 37 845 100, the ASX All Ordinaries Index, and the HSBC Global Mining Index.
These indexes have been chosen as they represent major markets and the Non executive directors mining sector in which the Group competes for investors.
The amounts can be converted into sterling at the rate of US$1 0.6389 or alternatively into Australian dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.2637, each being the average exchange rate for 2009.
The Other cash based benefi ts for non executive directors comprise overseas meeting allowances.
Non monetary benefi ts include for Jim Leng the cost of accompanied travel in 2009.
For Richard Goodmanson, it includes the value of professional advice received.
For Paul Skinner and Jan du Plessis, it includes the value of company provided transport and medical insurance premiums.
The value of a retirement gift is also included for Paul Skinner.
Rio Tinto plc provides accident cover for non executive directors: the total premium paid in 2009 was US$6,418.
Represents short term benefi ts total required under the UK Companies Act 2006 and total remuneration under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
b Underlying earnings is the key fi financial performance indicator which management use internally to assess performance.
30 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Summary fi financial statements These Summary fi financial statements have been extracted from the Financial statements, which have been reported on by the auditors, and which will be fi led with the United Kingdom Registrar of Companies and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.
The auditors report of the Financial statements is unqualifi ed and does not contain a statement under either S237 2 or S237 3 of the UK Companies Act 1985.
The Summary fi financial statements do not contain suffi cient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and affairs of the Group and parent companies as is provided in the Financial statements.
Copies of the 2009 Annual report may be obtained from the addresses shown on the outside back cover.
Summary income statement Years ended 31 December 2009 2008 US$m US$m Gross sales revenue including share of equity accounted units 44,036 58,065 Continuing operations Consolidated sales revenue 41,825 54,264 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 33,818 37,641 Impairment charges 1,573 8,015 Profi ts on disposal of interests in businesses 692 2,231 Exploration and evaluation costs 514 1,134 Profi ts on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 894 489 Operating profi t 7,506 10,194 Share of profi t after tax of equity accounted units 786 1,039 Profi t before fi finance items and taxation 8,292 11,233 Finance items 432 2,055 Profi t before taxation 7,860 9,178 Taxation 2,076 3,742 Profi t from continuing operations 5,784 5,436 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 449 827 Profi t for the year 5,335 4,609 attributable to outside equity shareholders 463 933 attributable to equity shareholders of Rio Tinto Net earnings 4,872 3,676 Basic earnings loss per share 2008 restated Profi t from continuing operations 301.7c 286.8c Loss from discontinued operations 25.5c 52.7c Profi t for the year 276.2c 234.1c Diluted earnings loss per share 2008 restated Profi t from continuing operations 300.7c 285.5c Loss from discontinued operations 25.4c 52.4c Profi t for the year 275.3c 233.1c Dividends paid during the year US$m 876 1,933 Dividends per share: paid during the year 2008 restated 55.6c 124.3c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 2008 restated 45.0c 55.6c Summary statement of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December 2009 2008 Attributable to Attributable to shareholders of Rio Outside interests shareholders of Rio Outside interests Tinto US$m US$m Total US$m Tinto US$m US$m Total US$m Profi t after tax for the year 4,872 463 5,335 3,676 933 4,609 Other comprehensive income Currency translation adjustments 3,719 429 4,148 4,385 411 4,796 Cash fl ow hedge fair value losses gains 194 74 268 273 113 386 Gains losses on available for sale securities 354 1 355 174 1 175 Actuarial losses gains on post retirement benefi t plans 847 3 844 1,294 20 1,314 Share of other comprehensive income expense of equity accounted units 368 368 283 283 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 297 24 321 280 36 244 Other comprehensive income expense for the year, net of tax 3,697 383 4,080 5,583 355 5,938 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 8,569 846 9,415 1,907 578 1,329 www.
com 31 Summary fi financial statements continued Summary statement of fi financial position At 31 December 2009 2008 US$m US$m Non-current assets Goodwill 14,268 14,296 Intangible assets 5,730 6,285 Property, plant and equipment 45,803 41,753 Investments in equity accounted units 6,735 5,053 Loans to equity accounted units 170 264 Inventories 284 166 Trade and other receivables 1,375 1,111 Deferred tax assets 2,231 1,367 Tax recoverable 85 220 Other fi financial assets 841 666 77,522 71,181 Current assets Inventories 4,889 5,607 Trade and other receivables 4,447 5,401 Loans to equity accounted units 168 251 Tax recoverable 501 406 Other fi financial assets 694 264 Cash and cash equivalents 4,233 1,181 14,932 13,110 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 4,782 5,325 Total assets 97,236 89,616 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts repayable on demand 91 147 Borrowings 756 9,887 Trade and other payables 5,759 7,197 Other fi financial liabilities 412 480 Tax payable 1,329 1,442 Provisions 1,182 826 9,529 19,979 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 22,155 29,724 Trade and other payables 591 452 Other fi financial liabilities 601 268 Tax payable 299 450 Deferred tax liabilities 4,304 4,054 Provision for post retirement benefi ts 4,993 3,601 Other provisions 7,519 6,506 40,462 45,055 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 1,320 2,121 Total liabilities 51,311 67,155 Net assets 45,925 22,461 Capital and reserves Share capital 5,170 1,121 Reserves 38,661 19,517 Equity attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders 43,831 20,638 Attributable to outside equity shareholders 2,094 1,823 Total equity 45,925 22,461 Jan du Plessis Tom Albanese Guy Elliott Chairman Chief executive Chief fi financial offi cer 5 March 2010 5 March 2010 5 March 2010 32 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual review Independent auditors statement to the members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited We have examined the Summary fi financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group which comprise the Summary income statement, the Summary statement of comprehensive income, the Summary statement of fi financial position and the Executives remuneration information on pages 28 and 29, within the accompanying 2009 Annual review the Summary fi financial information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the 2009 Annual review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary fi financial information within the 2009 Annual review with the 2009 Annual report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the 2009 Annual review and consider the implications for our statement if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary fi financial information.
The other information comprises the items on pages 1 to 27.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for each companys members as a body in accordance with Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Rio Tinto Groups 2009 Annual report describes the basis of our audit opinions on those fi financial statements, and the Directors report and the Remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary fi financial information is consistent with the 2009 Annual report of the Rio Tinto Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 428 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 and Section 314 of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission order dated 27 January 2006 as amended on 22 December 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP  Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Chartered Accountants London Brisbane 5 March 2010 5 March 2010 In respect of the members of Robert Hubbard Rio Tinto plc Partner In respect of the members of Rio Tinto Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Financial calendar 2010 14 January Fourth quarter 2009 operations review 11 February Announcement of results for 2009 24 February Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend for 2009 fi final dividend 26 February Record date for 2009 fi final dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 2 March Record date for 2009 fi final dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares Strategy 11 March Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2009 fi final dividend 1 April Payment date for 2009 fi final dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs Delivery 15 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto plc 15 April First quarter 2010 operations review Growth 22 April Annual general meeting for Rio Tinto Limited 14 July Second quarter 2010 operations review A focused and integrated strategy 5 August Announcement of half year results for 2010 Excellence in operational delivery Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares and Rio Tinto plc ADRs quoted ex-dividend 11 August for 2010 interim dividend Positioned for growth 13 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto plc shares and ADRs 17 August Record date for 2010 interim dividend for Rio Tinto Limited shares 18 August Plan notice date for election under the dividend reinvestment plan for the 2010 interim dividend 9 September Payment date for 2010 interim dividend to holders of Ordinary shares and ADRs 14 October Third quarter 2010 operations review 2011 January Fourth quarter 2010 operations review February Announcement of results for 2010 Useful information and contacts Registered offi ces Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto plc Computershare Investor Services PLC 2 Eastbourne Terrace The Pavilions London Bridgwater Road W2 6LG Bristol BS99 6ZY Registered in England No.
com Rio Tinto Limited Investor Centre Level 33 To fi nd out more about Investor Centre, go to 120 Collins Street www.
com Investor Centre To fi nd out more about Investor Centre go to www.
au What you can fi nd online www.
com Find out more about our business and performance online 2009 Annual report Webcast of our 2009 results Sustainable development review This document is printed on Revive 50:50 offset: a paper containing 50% virgin fi bre and 50% post consumer waste.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using a 2009 Annual review Totally Chlorine Free TCF process and contains fi bre from well managed FSC certifi ed forests.
