100% Success rates on apprenticeships have improved from around 50% to 100% in three years.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: People and the Community 23 P eople and the Community In addition to striving to meet our shareholders demands for a healthy return on the capital they have entrusted to us, the Company is determined to act with integrity in all aspects of the business, at all times.
We owe our employees stable, safe and fair The age profile across the group is also diverse.
is responsible for delivering this contract and is Fiona Leitch, Macmillan employment.
We treat our suppliers fairly, working The Group is proud that many employees choose key to our people development strategy.
We are Cancer Support and in partnership with them, sharing our knowledge to stay and work on in the business after their delighted to have been successful in our recent Barry Cuthbertson, with them and listening to them.
The annual staff retention Ofsted inspection.
Robert Wiseman Dairies share a cuppa with rate is currently 91% which clearly demonstrates Inspectors use a four-point scale: Grade 1 Outstanding, We promote healthy product choices which are a herd of dairy cows the Companys ability to successfully attract and to mark the launch Grade 2 Good, Grade 3 Satisfactory and Grade 4 accessible and affordable and we make a genuine retain employees.
of the Worlds Biggest Unsatisfactory and the Company has been awarded contribution to the communities in which we operate.
The Company has an established relationship with an overall grading of Good with an award of The Board has delegated the day to day responsibility 2: My Hero our trade union partner, USDAW and is delighted Outstanding in terms of our capacity to improve.
A pupil from one of the for all matters related to Corporate Responsibility to to see membership levels continuing to grow.
winning classes in the The following extract from the Inspectors report the Executive Directors, with specific responsibility My Heroes competition The Company has in place a detailed Whistleblowing illustrates the Companys continuing commitment for people and community related issues entrusted gets up close to a dairy Policy and Hotline which are reviewed and approved to improving business performance through the to the Group Commercial Director.
cow during their school by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
development and motivation of its staff.
Business ethics 3: Fundraising drive The Health & Safety Team has raised safety standards Work Based Learning managers and staff are The Board of Robert Wiseman Dairies has made a clear Robert Wiseman Dairies in the Company through extensive training from clear on how they will continue to improve quality, commitment to ensuring that the Group operates to launched their partnership senior management through to the chill operatives.
They set challenging targets for the highest standards of business ethics and integrity.
with Help the Hospices improvement which they pursue relentlessly by unveiling the first The Health & Safety Steering Group Operations The principles underlying this are included in the of a fleet of 14 vehicles Success rates on apprenticeships have improved Management & Health & Safety Team promotes emblazoned with the Employee Handbook which is provided to all employees, from around 50% to 100% in three years.
Help the Hospices logo the safety culture through initiatives and key and contains clear policies and procedures relating to all and sunflowers.
Recent changes to the management structure have employment matters.
given funded training a much higher profile within 4: Buying into The Companys performance has been recognised the process The Groups strong ethical position is recognised the organisation.
This in turn is helping to secure through a Royal Society For The Prevention of Pupils from Jordanhill through our continuing inclusion in the the necessary resources to continue to bring School receive tips on Accidents ROSPA 2009 Occupational Health FTSE4GOOD Index.
the procurement process & Safety Award.
from Alan Russell, Robert The Group is committed to the principle of equal We are delighted to have further expanded our Wiseman Dairies, for their The Company is committed to developing the opportunities in employment and will not tolerate Work Based Learning team enabling us to offer an business enterprise project.
potential of its staff in line with business needs.
any discrimination on the grounds of race, nationality, increased range of nationally recognised qualifications The implementation of lean systems and continuous religion, ethnic or national origin, gender, marital to our employees.
This further develops our improvement tools across the business has status, age or disability.
As a widely dispersed business Academy Framework which will ultimately provide necessitated the introduction of various new our ethnic mix varies from location to location.
our employees with the opportunity to develop learning and development programmes specifically within their current and for future roles.
Like most of the transport industry, our distribution designed to support the Group Operations staff are predominantly male, but our production improvement strategy.
The Company is recognised The Company is keen to identify any appropriate facilities include a broader gender mix due to the as a benchmark employer provider of training opportunities to support the development of all our and nationally recognised qualifications and currently availability of shift and part time working.
Currently employees and we are involved in a pilot project with holds a national contract with the Learning Skills the Company has a 88% male 12% female split USDAW to engage employees in lifelong learning.
Our Work Based Learning, WBL, team and 90% full time 10% part time split.
Robert Wiseman Dairies 24 Business Review: People and the Community Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 A learning roadshow event is planned for the middle Make it programme of the year in Central Scotland which is aimed at The Manufacturing Institute TMI Make It introducing adults to learning who may not necessarily programme promotes manufacturing as an exciting have had the opportunity or confidence to access and rewarding career destination.
A key element of education in adulthood.
Make It is a range of exciting hands-on activities for young people and teachers.
Other training initiatives in the pipeline include a The Make It Enterprising Challenge day is designed company wide Safe and Fuel Efficient driver training to ensure that young people get a greater underprogram.
This will run in line with Isotrak and will standing of the range of jobs available within the assist us to achieve a reduction in carbon emissions, sector.
Each team of pupils became a manufacturing fuel usage and servicing and repair costs.
company and competed in a series of regional A new qualification for drivers driver CPC will also competitions culminating in a final hosted by commence in 2009.
We are authorised to deliver Wiseman at the Reebok Stadium in Bolton.
the training in-house and were the first company in Scotland to be granted this status.
In conjunction with TMI and Specialist Schools Academies Trust, Wiseman also held a teacher Wiseman in the Community placement day for providers of 14-19 education Robert Wiseman Dairies has become part of local in Manufacturing Design & Technology Food communities all over the UK as an employer and Technology and providers of information, advice supplier of fresh liquid milk.
Our community activity is guided by Wiseman Special Edition Milk It carton competition in the Community, a group of people who work With TMI, we also ran a Milk It carton competition for Wiseman who are representative of parts which invited schools in the North West of England Packaging of the country where we have operations.
to design Guy Fawkes night safety messages for our milk cartons.
The group is responsible for finding out how The Company supported six charities Wiseman can be involved in communities in Four winning designs were selected and the their area, and making recommendations against winners were treated to a day out to see their during its charity month in September a small number of guiding themes.
through on-pack promotions which Notable activity which impacts on FareShare allow the charities to raise their profile in local communities includes: FareShare is a national UK charity supporting communities to relieve food poverty.
FareShare millions of homes throughout the country.
Neighbourhood Shop of the Year distributes surplus food to vulnerable groups such Robert Wiseman Dairies Neighbourhood Shop as the homeless, elderly and children.
This years beneficiaries were Disability Snowsport UK, Clic Sergeant, Diabetes of the Year is the leading recognition programme UK, Help the Hospices, Brainwave and VetAid.
By diverting surplus food from traditional disposal for convenience stores in the UK.
in landfill, FareShare help businesses reduce green Wisemans special edition packaging has also benefited Macmillan Cancer The programme culminates in a National Final event house gas emissions.
To date we have provided Care, through promotion of its Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning event and at which the top 25 stores in the UK are recognised over 130,000 litres of milk to FareShare.
and the overall Neighbourhood Shop of the Year is Young farmers The Company has participated in the My Heroes school project, a competition announced.
Wiseman then works with local media Our involvement with Young Farmers groups run on school milk packs across the country offering children the chance to to provide recognition for these stores.
This event throughout the country is one of the ways we win a farm visit for their class.
also gives Wiseman an opportunity to recognise continue to develop our links with the farming top dairy producers with the Milk Partnership Children were asked to enter stories, poems or pictures on their favourite community of the future.
Quality Awards and the company also uses the foods and what kind of superhero it could turn them into.
Wiseman awards to acknowledge exceptional environmental In Scotland we support the Scottish Association partnered with The Year of Food and Farming, RHET Royal Highland Education performance amongst customers.
of Young Farmers Clubs through sponsorship of Trust and FACE Farming and Countryside Education to deliver the prizes.
their National Competitions Weekend, their freshnlo Great Scottish Run The company has speechmaking competition and the West Region The company has been associated with the Great Talent Spot competition.
Scottish Run for five years as title sponsor, providing us with a means to associate our freshnlo brand with In England and Wales we are developing our links health, exercise, families and fun.
with the National Federation of Young Farmers Clubs through sponsorship of their Performing During this period, participation in the half marathon, Arts Competition.
10K and 3K runs has nearly doubled to 20,000 runners, with special edition packaging helping to Other community activities stimulate entries.
We decided after the 2008 event to Wiseman in the Community supports other activities review our involvement and have taken the decision throughout the year including the Vale of Atholl Pipe to support the Pedal for Scotland event in 2009.
Band, sponsorship of the Pethy Run and involvement in the North Petherton Carnival, close to our dairy Variety Club and Help the Hospices in Bridgwater.
Robert Wiseman Dairies has completed a 6 year partnership with The Variety Club, which provides The Company also participated in an innovative help to sick, disabled and disadvantaged children enterprise project run by Jordanhill School in across the country.
Glasgow, which allowed children to discover what it is like to run a business, whilst benefiting During this time, staff and the Company have raised a charity in Uganda.
in excess of 300,000, putting 11 Black and White branded Variety Club Sunshine Coaches on the road Over the course of the year, pupils have been in local communities across Britain.
In the past year, freshnlo Pedal for Scotland responsible for buying, marketing and administering the companys fund-raising efforts provided coaches the schools supplies of SHOCK flavoured milk, freshnlo will be supporting Pedal for Scotland in 2009 to Castleview Special Needs School in Stirling, and taking orders from their peers and distributing Elmwood Special School in Bridgwater.
The annual Glasgow to the product through the school canteen, making a profit in the process.
Edinburgh ride was established by Cycling Scotland In the coming year, the Company has decided to partner Help the Hospices, which provides essential Wiseman offered advice on processing orders, to promote healthy lifestyle choice and has now funding for the hospice movement throughout the UK.
organising deliveries, marketing and accounting become Scotland biggest bike ride with just under and the proceeds will now help farmers who have The Wiseman in the Community group is exploring 6,000 participating in 2008.
Joined together, freshnlo taken in orphans in Uganda.
Profits from the project a range of ways to raise funds for Help the Hospices, Pedal for Scotland is a great example of healthy eating will be used to purchase cows to allow the farmers and the company will work hard to increase the to produce food for their families and to start up and healthy living and will allow us to reach a wide profile of this important charity.
audience across the central belt of Scotland as well as promoting the associated health benefits.
