Robert Wiseman Dairies 28 Business Review: Classified Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Secretary and Principal Bankers Registrars Registered Office Environmental Credentials Clydesdale Bank plc Capita Registrars Gerard Sweeney 19 Stuart Street The Registry 159 Glasgow Road East Kilbride 34 Beckenham Road East Kilbride Glasgow G74 4NF Beckenham Glasgow G74 4PA Kent BR3 4TU Printed on Lumisilk and Kascad Leafbird Green.
Financial Advisers Remuneration and Lumisilk is an FSC-recognised paper, produced Solicitors and Stockbrokers Audit Committee from well-managed forests, and recycled wood or fibre.
This publication was printed with Maclay Murray Investec Norman L Murray vegetable oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised & Spens 2 Gresham Street Ernest Finch printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification.
151 St. Vincent Street London EC2V 7QP Andrew Dare Glasgow G2 5NJ Auditors and Tax Advisers Nomination Committee And the winner is Design and Production Deloitte LLP Alan Wiseman Congratulations to Manchester and Glasgow Emperor Design 9 George Square Norman L Murray Dairies who were joint winners of the RoSPA www.
co. uk Glasgow G2 1QQ Andrew Dare Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents 0131 220 7990 Ernest Finch Food Drink and Tobacco Manufacturing Sector award.
Leeds and Whitburn sites achieved a silver RoSPA award for their excellence.
At the Scotland plc awards Robert Wiseman Dairies, has been recognised for its clear 40 years and commitment to sustainable practices.
Financial Advisers Printers not done yet!
Congratulations to all the teams involved!
J Thomson Colour Printers Noble Grossart Congratulations to Jack Buchanan, 14 Carnoustie Place 48 Queen Street who completed 40 years service with the Glasgow Edinburgh EH2 3NR company this year, latterly as Wisemans G5 8PB Property and Transport Director.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Head Office Tel 01355 244 261 159 Glasgow Road Fax 01355 230 352 East Kilbride E-mail wiseman@wiseman-dairies.
co. uk Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Financials A good end result for the year Financial Statements: Whats in this section Directors Report F1 Corporate Governance F3 Directors Remuneration Report F8 Independent Auditors Report F18 Consolidated Income Statement F19 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense F19 Consolidated Balance Sheet F20 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement F21 Company Balance Sheet F22 Company Cash Flow Statement F22 Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense F22 Notes to the Financial Statements F23 Summary and Financial Calendar F44 Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Report F1 The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the financial year ended 4 April 2009.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activities of the Group remain the processing and distribution of milk and associated products.
A review of the results and the development of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Business and Financial Review BFR on pages 8 to 13.
Results and Dividends Group results, dividends paid and proposed and recommended transfers to profit and loss reserve are as follows: 000 Group retained profit at 30 March 2008 99,603 ESOP share amortisation 2,221 Share-based payments credit 1,922 Arising on the purchase of ordinary shares for cancellation 2,645 Contribution for purchase of shares by ESOP 19 Total recognised income and expense 6,132 Dividends 10,780 Group retained profit at 4 April 2009 91,992 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.00p per ordinary share to be paid on 17 September 2009 to shareholders on the register at 31 July 2009 which, together with the interim dividend of 5.00p per ordinary share paid on 5 February 2009, makes a total of 15.00p per ordinary share in respect of the year 2008: 14.00p.
Enhanced Business Review Requirements The Group is required to comply with the Enhanced Business Review disclosures required by the Companies Act 1985 as amended to comply with the EU Modernisation Directive.
The Group has chosen to include much of the disclosure within its Business and Financial Review including the following: Disclosure of Key Performance Indicators for the Group on page 9 of the BFR.
Disclosure of Principal Risks and Uncertainties affecting the business including the use of financial instruments on pages 12 and 13 of the BFR.
Financial Risk Management Policy on page 13 of the BFR.
In addition the Group has made certain disclosures about its environmental impact and performance in the current year within the Environmental Report contained on pages 16 to 19.
The Group has also made certain disclosures regarding future prospects in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3.
Share Capital On 12 May 2009 the Company had been notified, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital: Number of shares Percentage held First Milk Ltd 11,332,197 15.68% Aberforth Partners LLP 7,510,829 10.39% F & C Asset Management Plc 3,676,363 5.09% Standard Life Investments Ltd 3,370,568 4.66% AXA SA 3,049,472 4.22% GJ Wiseman 2,188,999 3.03% AW Wiseman and RT Wiseman have interests amounting to more than 3% of the Companys ordinary share capital, details of which are disclosed in Note 9 of the financial statements.
Details of the share capital of the Company are given in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Acquisition of Companys Own Shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolution of 3 July 2008, to purchase on behalf of the Company 6,242,500 of the Companys ordinary share capital at prices ranging between 10p and 360.7p per share.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
It is proposed that this authority will be renewed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, as detailed in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors The names of the current Directors of the Company are set out on page 26 of the Annual Report.
AW Wiseman, NL Murray and B Hodson will retire by rotation, and will seek re-election by shareholders, at the 2009 AGM.
E J Finch will also retire at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with provisions of the Combined Code and will seek to be re-appointed.
Charitable and Political Contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 9,000 2008: 17,000 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates and Nil 2008: Nil for political purposes.
Robert Wiseman Dairies F2 Directors Report continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Fixed Assets There is no material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
Terms of Payment to Suppliers Payment terms with suppliers are such that payment is made by the Group at the end of the month following that in which goods or services are received except where individual terms of payment have been agreed.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Environmental Policy The Group is committed to minimising any harmful effects of its activities on the environment and to working with suppliers, customers and the local community to carry out this policy.
Programmes to reduce energy usage and minimise waste have been put in place and the Group works with customers and suppliers to avoid excess packaging and promote the use of recyclable materials.
Further details of the Groups environmental objectives and initiatives in this area are set out on pages 16 to 19.
Employees Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued its previous practice of keeping them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Communication is made via regular meetings with senior management, notice boards and newsletters sent to every employee.
Disabled Employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at 18 May 2009: So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at the Holiday Inn East Kilbride, Stewartfield Way, East Kilbride on 9 July 2009 at 12.00 noon, is sent to shareholders separately with this report, together with the explanation of the items of special business.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Gerard Sweeney Secretary 18 May 2009 Registered Office 159 Glasgow Road East Kilbride Glasgow G74 4PA Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Governance F3 Robert Wiseman Dairies believes that the principal roles of its Directors are to lead and control the wealth creation process and to manage the associated risks and system of internal controls within the Group.
The Directors are accountable to shareholders for good governance.
The Board is the decision-making body of the Group with regards to material matters covering strategic, financial and reputational areas.
This Corporate Governance Report is designed to explain the key features of the Companys governance structure, how the Company applies the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code, and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Code and each of the provisions of the Code are reviewed throughout the year to see whether it is necessary to take steps to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this Report or to explain any instances on non-compliance.
The Company has complied throughout the year ended 4 April 2009 with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Directors Brief biographical details of current Directors are set out on page 26.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all Non-executive and Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the Board.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the Executive Directors and the Operational Directors.
There is also a Senior Non-executive Director Norman Murray whose role is separately defined.
The Board comprises four Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
Three of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent and therefore a third of the Board comprises Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Norman Murray as the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director is available to address concerns which shareholders may have that have not been dealt with through the normal communication channels with the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The two Non-executive Directors who are deemed to not be independent are: Alan Wiseman, on account of his previous Executive position, shareholding and relationship with the Chief Executive: and Beverley Hodson, on account of the fact that she sits on the Board as a representative of First Milk who hold a 15.7% share of the Company and are the largest single supplier to the Group.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for all Directors to stand for re-election at intervals of no more than three years, AW Wiseman, NL Murray and B Hodson will retire by rotation, and will seek re-election by shareholders, at the 2009 AGM.
In addition as we explained at our AGM last year EJ Finch was re-elected in 2008 for a three year term however this appointment spans the period in which the Code would require the Company to consider whether he is no longer independent by reason of the duration of his involvement with the Company.
Whilst EJ Finch was reappointed for a period of three years we consider it appropriate that he stand for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board are satisfied that following the review of Board and Director effectiveness in 2009 that EJ Finch remains independent in character and judgement.
He continues to demonstrate the characteristics of independence which we consider essential, such as objectively challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate.
We believe that it is advantageous to the Company to retain his services due to his commercial experience, strong knowledge of the Groups business and affairs, together with his experience gained as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Report of the Board in relation to Remuneration Policy and Practice the Directors Remuneration Report on pages F8 to F17 and Note 9 respectively.
The Board The Board meets regularly to determine the strategic direction of the Group and to review operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board which includes: approval of the Groups annual Business Plan: the Groups strategy: acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds: all guarantees: treasury policies: the financial statements: the Companys dividend policy: transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares: borrowing powers: appointments to the Board: alterations to the Memorandum and Articles of Association: legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds: and the scope of delegations to Board Committees, subsidiary boards and executive management of the Group.
On appointment to the Board, Directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses: the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces: and the economic, competition, legal and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
Robert Wiseman Dairies F4 Corporate Governance continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Board Meeting Agenda In advance of all Board meetings the Directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the executive management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for the timeliness and quality of information.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in performance of their duties as Directors.
None of the Directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All Directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
In addition to these formal roles, the Non-executive Directors have access to senior management of the business either by telephone or via involvement at informal meetings.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings from 30 April 2008 to 18 May 2009 Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee max 7 max 5 max 7 max 1 Executive Directors RT Wiseman 7 WG Keane 7 M Mulcahy 7 D Dobbins 7 Non-executive Directors AW Wiseman 7 1 NL Murray 7 5 7 1 EJ Finch 7 5 7 1 AR Dare 7 5 7 1 B Hodson 7 In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee also held 2 meetings with the external auditors during the period 30 March 2008 18 May 2009 covering the audit planning and an evaluation meeting towards the end of each years audit process.
Board Evaluation During the year to 4 April 2009 the Board undertook an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and its members.
This was performed through a series of questionnaires and meetings with the Board members.
The results of these evaluations were reviewed and reported back to the Board during 2008.
The Chairman appraised the performance of the Non-executive Directors on the Board.
The Executive Directors performance was appraised by the Chairman, reviewed with the Non-executive Directors and discussed with the relevant Executive Director.
The Chairman was appraised by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following formal performance evaluation of all the Directors, all of the Directors performances continue to be effective, and the Directors offering themselves for re-election or election at the AGM continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of Director.
Professional Development A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with other training provided during the year, ensures that Directors continually update their skills: their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses: and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the Board and committees of the Board.
During the year representatives from Deloitte LLP and Maclay Murray & Spens gave presentations to the members of the Board as part of the Board training and technical update process.
Insurance Cover Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by a Directors and officers liability insurance policy purchased by the Company.
This scheme provides cover for the individual against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in their capacity as a Director or officer of the Company or its subsidiaries, providing that the judgement is not given against them.
Relations with Shareholders The Company co-ordinates its communications with shareholders through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders, both at the interim and year end results, as well as through site visits and individual discussions with Board Members and key members of the management team.
There is regular dialogue to help to ensure that the Companys or Groups strategy is understood and that any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is available throughout the year to communicate with those shareholders who request a meeting.
All brokers reports and analysts briefings are included in the Board papers sent to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting.
During the year, shareholders can receive up-to-date information through the Companys website, www.
This provides share price information, financial results and analyst presentations.
Annual General Meeting The Board seeks to encourage shareholder attendance at its Annual General Meeting.
The entire Board are present to answer any questions raised by shareholders.
All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in July 2008.
Committees of the Board The terms of reference of the principal Committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination are available on the Companys website, www.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages F8 to F17.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Governance continued F5 Nomination Committee Alan Wiseman Chairman Norman L Murray Andrew R Dare Ernest J Finch The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board: ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board: reviews the composition of the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of Directors: and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and to other senior executive management positions.
There have been no new appointments to the Board in the current year.
Audit Committee Norman L Murray Chairman Andrew R Dare Ernest J Finch The Audit Committee consists entirely of Non-executive Directors who are considered to be independent by the Board, and is chaired by Norman Murray who has recent and relevant financial experience.
As can be seen from the Directors biographical details, appearing on page 26, the other members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of appropriate experience.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee include all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
The Committee meets with Executive Directors and management, as well as privately with the external auditors.
The Company Secretary attends the meeting as Secretary of the Audit Committee: however, as and when required, he will exit the meetings to ensure the independence of the meetings.
In the current year the Committee has: reviewed and advised the Board on the Groups interim and annual financial statements: reviewed the control of the Groups financial and business risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors and internal audit departments: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management: reviewed the activities, resources, organisational structure and operational effectiveness of the Groups internal audit departments as discussed in more detail below: reviewed and approved the scope of the Risk Committee, chaired by the Risk Management and Strategic Planning Director of the operating company, Robert Wiseman & Sons Limited: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, as well as the appropriateness of whistleblowing procedures: made recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and monitored the performance of the auditors: and reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of the auditors.
The Committee has ensured that both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors also reported regularly to the Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
This report included details of the rules regarding the rotation of key members of the audit team to ensure independence.
The Committee reviews the auditors independence annually and ensures that they comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards.
In accordance with best practice independence guidelines the audit partner is required to rotate off the audit engagement every five years.
During the current year the Audit Committee undertook a process with Deloitte to select the audit engagement partner for the 2009 10 year.
This process was designed to ensure that the partner had appropriate experience and skills and that the Audit Committee were satisfied that there were no conflicts of interest.
The Audit Committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the fees to be paid to the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level, the engagement must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
At the year end meeting to review the Annual report and Accounts the Audit Committee formally considers the level of non-audit services and fees provided by the Groups auditors.
The detail and level of fees are fully discussed and the Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity and independence of the external audit arising from the level of non-audit fees.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial statements on page F28.
The Audit Committee meet on at least two occasions during the year end process in March and May.
Issues likely to impact the financial statements are raised at the initial meeting by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors will also present their audit plan.
Audit Committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing any issues raised, the Audit Committee will recommend the policies to be adopted or direct senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary and take advice from the auditors on best practice.
Robert Wiseman Dairies F6 Corporate Governance continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 At the final meeting, the external auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee including a summary of the significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The Audit Committee would consider any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the relevant departments based on the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The audit committee receives updates on the internal control workplan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any direct reliance on the work undertaken by the Groups internal control functions due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
In addition to the standing members of the Audit Committee and representatives from the external auditors, William Keane, Group Finance Director, Gerard Sweeney, Company Secretary and Finance Director of Robert Wiseman & Sons Limited and Douglas Laing, Risk Management and Strategic Planning Director of Robert Wiseman & Sons Limited, routinely attend and are invited to give presentations at meetings of the Audit Committee.
Also during the year representatives from Deloitte LLP and Maclay Murray & Spens gave presentations to the Audit Committee and other members of the Board as part of the Board training and technical update process.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and annually reviews its effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors and other senior management.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and is in accordance with the Revised Guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 30 March 2008 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review, however had such failings or weaknesses been identified then the Board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 5 March 2009, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
There have been no significant changes to the system of internal controls since that date.
The Operational Board is the senior executive team of the Group and has mechanisms for monitoring the risk management practices approved and adopted by individual business areas.
They confirm that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control system, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the Board.
The Board requires the departments within the trading company to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the current year and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: 1.
Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The Board meets regularly and has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee, which, with the Group Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment of the Group.
Risk Committee Whilst the Board of Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC remains responsible for determining the strategic direction of the Group and reviewing operating, financial and risk performance, the Risk Committee has established policies for identifying all major operational, financial and reputational risks within the strategy set by the PLC Board.
In the current year the Risk Committee has: continuously monitored the risks affecting the business including horizon gazing to try to identify new risks to strategy before they manifest themselves to the business: ensured that risk management is considered throughout our activities and is embedded in the culture and business processes of the Group: reviewed the controls over all of the risks identified which affect the business, to assess whether they mitigate the risk taking into consideration operational, financial and or commercial limitations: ensured that key controls identified are appropriately and regularly tested by independent personnel: and liaised on a regular basis with the Board through the Audit Committee.
Operational Board This is responsible for risk reviews and internal control, which it exercises through different departments located throughout the Groups operations.
The Operational Board reviews business risks, processes and procedures in all the departments of the trading company, agreeing with the relevant management plans to mitigate those risks and improve internal controls and processes.
It monitors progress in implementing recommendations and provides regular reports on its findings, as appropriate, to executive management and, via the Audit Committee, to the Board.
Annually the Risk Management and Strategic Planning Director specifically reviews and reports on business risks to executive management and, via the Audit Committee, to the Board.
Trading Company Controls The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of the trading company management.
Each department maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to Group standards and guidelines, including procedures to identify and mitigate all types of risk.
To this end the departments within the operating company undertake risk reviews, at least annually, to identify new or potentially undermanaged risks.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Governance continued F7 5.
Financial Reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the Board of Directors.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported with corrective action outlined by operating company executives as appropriate.
Throughout the year, Group senior management hold formal meetings with trading company management to review their business and financial performance against budget and forecast.
Informal meetings of Group senior management and trading company management are held most weeks.
Audits and Reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are all subject to regular audits or reviews by suitably trained and qualified personnel.
With the addition of an Internal Compliance Manager and the introduction of the Risk Committee in the prior year, the Group considers that it has in place a structure which manages all of the risks, ensuring that reviews and audits are carried out in an independent manner and reported throughout the Group without having to create a separately defined Internal Audit department.
The review by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the audits and reviews performed by these departments are independent.
Audits and reviews are carried out by personnel who are independent of the location being visited.
As this structure has now been in place throughout the year under review the Group considers that it has an independent internal audit function in the year under review.
The risk management framework and internal control system detailed above provides the control environment in which the Company operates in compliance with the Combined Code provisions on Internal Control.
Having considered all of the controls and systems in place and their operation throughout the year the Board considers that the Group has an effective internal control environment which is appropriate for the business and has operated effectively throughout the year.
Adoption of Going Concern Basis The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the BFR on pages 8 to 13.
In addition, the BFR outlines the Groups policies and processes for managing its financial risks.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk are outlined in Notes 18, 20 and 22 of the financial statements.
In their consideration of going concern, the Directors have reviewed the Groups future cashflow forecasts and associated risks: these forecasts extend for a period beyond one year from the date of approval of these financial statements.
The Groups borrowing facilities were renewed in November 2008 and allow for 100 million of bank borrowings.
Of the 100 million of bank borrowings available to the Group, 80 million is due for renewal in November 2011 with the balance due for renewal in November 2009.
The Groups bankers, Clydesdale Bank PLC, has indicated that on the basis of information currently available it would expect to renew this 20 million facility for a further twelve months beyond its expiry in November 2009.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Groups cash flow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance given current market and economic conditions, show that the Group will be able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Robert Wiseman Dairies F8 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 An Introduction from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce this, our seventh Directors Remuneration Report DRR for which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
The purpose of the DRR is to set out our overall remuneration policies for Executive Directors and explain how these were applied for the year ended 4 April 2009.
It also sets out tables with details of individual salary, incentive, and pension benefits of all the Directors for the year.
As required by legislation, the main body of the DRR has been divided into two parts: one that contains audited information and another which sets out some unaudited information.
The Companys auditors are required to report on the auditable part of the DRR and to state whether in their opinion that part has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
The information that requires to be included in the DRR is, in some areas, fairly complex.
We have, however, endeavoured to provide straightforward summaries of the key points throughout the report wherever possible.
For example, the table on page F9 lists the various parts of the Executive Directors remuneration packages and gives a brief explanation of each element.
We welcome questions and feedback from all shareholders on both the content and style of the DRR.
Ernest Finch Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 May 2009 UNAUDiTED iNFoRmATioN The Remuneration Committee EJ Finch Chairman NL Murray AR Dare The Company has a Remuneration Committee the Committee, which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
During the period from 30 March 2008 to 14 May 2009, the Committee met seven times and all members attended each meeting.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-executive Directors and operates within terms of reference agreed with the Board: these are reviewed annually and are available on the Groups website.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the Company other than as shareholders or any conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and developing Group policy on executive remuneration and has oversight of the operation of the Groups share option and long-term incentive plans.
The Committee makes recommendations to the full Board and in the current year the Board accepted all its recommendations.
No Director is involved in any decisions about his or her own remuneration.
During the year, the Committee consulted with AW Wiseman, Company Chairman, in relation to a number of its proposals and continued to receive advice from both Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP and Watson Wyatt Limited on structuring Directors remuneration packages for which they received fees of 6,537 and 14,774 respectively.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP and Watson Wyatt Limited provided additional services to the Group on the administration, operation and design of the Companys share incentive arrangements for which they received fees of 25,913 and 8,177 respectively.
Significant Issues During the Year During the year, the Committee: considered the impact of certain one-off accounting items on the operation of the Companys various incentive schemes further details are provided on pages F10 and F11 in relation to the Executive Directors annual bonus scheme and F13 in relation to the Companys long-term incentive plan and share option arrangements.
Significant Issues Looking Forward In light of the economic slowdown and its impact on the commercial environment, the Committee has decided that it would be appropriate to conduct a full review of the Companys executive remuneration practices to ensure that they remain fit for purpose and supportive of the long-term drive for sustained performance and enhanced shareholder value.
However, it should be noted that the Committee continues to be fully committed to the overarching principle of pay for performance and will retain an appropriate mix both between fixed and variable pay and between short-term and long-term reward opportunity.
The Committee is also conscious of the need to ensure that the overall cost of employment of the Executive Directors remains stable.
In summary, the review will examine each element of the Executive Directors remuneration packages to identify ways in which they could be adjusted to: focus the efforts of the Companys senior personnel on growing the business ahead of internal targets and market expectations: and promote retention and stability over the coming years amongst the key executive population.
Further information in relation to the above review, which is currently ongoing, is provided throughout this DRR.
As and when this process has concluded which should be during the course of summer 2009, the Committee will consult fully with the Companys largest institutional investors prior to the implementation of any changes to the Executive Directors remuneration structure.
Overview of Remuneration Policy and Structure for Executive Directors Remuneration packages within the Group are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors and or employees of the high calibre needed to maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
This design process also takes into account factors that are specific to the Company and its executives.
For example, the Committee is mindful of the fact that RT Wiseman is already a substantial shareholder in the Company.
It is for this reason that, as noted below, he does not participate in any of the Groups share incentive arrangements.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Remuneration Report continued F9 The Four Key Elements of the Executive Directors Remuneration in the Year Ended 4 April 2009 Brief details are as follows: Element Description objective Performance Period Conditions Annual Base salary Annual salary paid to To ensure that the Directors n a Not applicable.
Salary levels are Executive Directors.
receive an appropriate and determined taking a number of competitive level of fixed factors into account, including remuneration.
individual and business performance, level of experience and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash bonus Executive Directors can earn To incentivise Executive Directors 1 year Achievement of challenging additional cash payments at to deliver above budget performance goals financial the end of each financial year.
performance during the and non-financial over the financial year.
course of the financial year.
Long-term Long Term Incentive Executive Directors can be To incentivise Executive 3 years Currently two conditions must 1 Plan or LTIP conditionally awarded shares Directors to deliver superior be satisfied over a 3-year period.
in the Company worth up to levels of long-term performance The receipt of half the shares is 100% of salary which become for the benefit of shareholders, conditional on the Companys available at the end of a thereby aligning the interests of Total Shareholder Return i. e. share three-year period.
the Directors with those of the price increase plus dividends paid Companys members.
comparing favourably to a comparator group of companys in the same sector.
The receipt of the remaining half of the shares is conditional on the Companys earnings per share performance.
Pensions Contributions by the Company To ensure that Directors are n a Not applicable.
to a defined contribution pension provided with an appropriate arrangement for the benefit of pension provision.
Note: 1 This table does not include details of previous long-term incentive plans, such as share option schemes, which are no longer used for regular grants of new awards to Executive Directors.
Balance of Executive Directors Remuneration The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance related.
All of the Executive Directors participate in the annual cash bonus scheme, and, with the exception of RT Wiseman, can benefit from participation in a long-term incentive plan.
In the case of the Executive Directors remuneration packages for the year ended 4 April 2009, this balance between fixed and performance related pay excluding pension arrangements is illustrated in the table below: Illustration of the Relative Value of Executive Directors Remuneration Elements 2009 Percentage of Maximum Remuneration Package 100% 80% LTIP 60% Bonus Basic Salary 40% 20% 0% RT Wiseman WG Keane M Mulcahy D Dobbins For the purposes of this diagram the % presented is based upon annual salary, the maximum bonus potential for each individual in the year and in the case of the Directors who participate in the LTIP scheme, an LTIP award of 55% of base salary.
It is also assumed that in respect of the LTIP award the share price growth during the three year performance period averages 10% a year.
For Executive Directors accepting appointments outside the Group, the Boards permission would be required.
No Executive Directors have sought to accept any appointment outside the Group.
Robert Wiseman Dairies F10 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Detailed Explanation of the Elements of Executive Directors Remuneration Basic Salary Basic salaries are determined by the Committee prior to the beginning of each year with any increases taking effect from 1 April of that year and or when an individual changes position or responsibility.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the Group as a whole and relies on objective benchmarking which gives up-to-date information on remuneration practice within a comparator group of similar companies by market capitalisation within the sector.
Executive Directors contracts of service, which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition to their basic salary, the Executive Directors receive benefits-in-kind, being a car and private medical insurance.
Annual Bonus Scheme Structure The Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid to an Executive Director under the annual bonus scheme.
For the year ended 4 April 2009, a combination of group wide financial measures and business specific targets were used to determine the amount of bonus paid to each of the Executive Directors.
They can be summarised as follows: Executive Director Group wide financial measures relating to: Business specific targets relating to: RT Wiseman EPS, operating profit and sales volume Achievement against certain non-financial measures and delivery of specified projects WG Keane EPS Financial management, IT, milk buying strategy and corporate communications relationships M Mulcahy EPS Commissioning of new operations facilities, efficiency and productivity levels and site operations reporting D Dobbins EPS Sales and marketing, HR, customer relations and health and safety The choice of the above measures reflected the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
The maximum potential payments under the bonus scheme for the year ended 4 April 2009 as a % of base salary were: Total bonus Group wide Business under the financial specific scheme Executive Director measures targets as a % of salary maximum potential RT Wiseman 80% 20% 100% WG Keane 24% 36% 60% M Mulcahy 24% 36% 60% D Dobbins 24% 36% 60% Under current arrangements, bonuses are paid to other senior management below main Board level as agreed with the Committee on an annual basis.
These bonus payments are based on Group wide financial targets and other measures of performance appropriate to the individuals concerned.
Annual Bonus Scheme Actual Payments for the Year Ending 4 April 2009 Total bonus under the scheme Executive Director as a % of salary Actual 2008-09 RT Wiseman 64% WG Keane 46% M Mulcahy 46% D Dobbins 46% The above bonus levels for the year ended 4 April 2009 were made up as follows: The business specific targets were met to the extent of a payment of 29% of salary for each of WG Keane, M Mulcahy and D Dobbins and a payment of 20% of salary for RT Wiseman.
The operating profit and sales volume targets in RT Wisemans incentive measures were met to the extent of a payment of 27% of salary.
In relation to the assessment of the earnings per share EPS performance targets, the Committee was required to consider the impact of a number of one-off accounting items that affected the Companys basic earnings figure for the year to 4 April 2009.
The decisions reached by the Committee included the following: in relation to the one-off tax credits of 2.1 million, the Committee concluded that its effects on EPS should be included for the purposes of assessing performance against annual bonus scheme targets this approach reflects the underlying purpose of this part of the bonus scheme i. e. rewarding actions taken by management that enhance earnings during the year to which the scheme relates : it is also entirely consistent with the stance taken by the Committee in relation to a benefit that was previously derived from the same source and which was recognised in the Companys accounts for the financial year to 2 April 2005: and Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Remuneration Report continued F11 in relation to the charge on earnings in the year to 4 April 2009 arising from the abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances, the Committees view was that this item should be excluded for bonus scheme purposes on the basis that it was an event entirely outwith the control of management.
After applying the above decisions, the EPS performance targets were met to the extent of a payment of 17% of salary for each of the participants.
The Committee views these payment levels under the annual bonus scheme as being appropriate in light of the overall level of profitability performance achieved over the year.
Annual Bonus Scheme Ongoing Review As highlighted on page F8, the Committee is in the process of reviewing various elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages this includes the annual bonus scheme structure described above.
The review of this arrangement is focused on ways in which it could be used more effectively to reward the achievement of challenging short-term performance goals whilst at the same time ensuring an alignment of participants interests with those of the Companys shareholders over the medium to longer term.
The Committee may also consider making adjustments to the limits contained within the scheme for the year to 3 April 2010 and onwards in order to ensure that it remains in line with comparable arrangements currently being offered by the Companys direct competitors and the market generally.
Long Term Incentive Plan Overview Under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, conditional awards of shares can be made to selected employees, including the Executive Directors.
The value of shares awarded to a participant under the LTIP in any financial year is subject to a limit of 100% of basic salary.
This scheme is intended to incentivise the participants to create shareholder value whilst retaining due focus on the underlying financial performance of the Group.
The Committee has responsibility for supervising the scheme and the grant of awards under its terms.
With the exception of RT Wiseman, all of the Executive Directors participate in the LTIP.
In the year ended 4 April 2009 each of WG Keane, M Mulcahy and D Dobbins received a conditional award with a face value equal to 45%, 48%, and 51% respectively of their base salary for the year.
In total during the year ended 4 April 2009, awards averaging 44% of basic salary were made to a further 31 senior executives this reflected the Committees policy of offering LTIP participation to other key individuals within the organisation.
All these awards are subject to the performance criteria described below.
No amounts due under the LTIP are recognised as remuneration until the award has vested.
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Conditions for Awards Granted in the Year Ended 31 March 2007 and Earlier Years In the case of LTIP awards granted during all years up to and including the year ended 31 March 2007, the performance criteria that must be met in order for the award to vest requires the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR to outperform a comparator group comprised of companies in the FTSE Food Producers Sector over a period of three years.
The Companys position within the comparator group then determines the extent to which the award vests as follows: TSR performance achieved Proportion of award vesting Below median Nil Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata between 25% and 100% Notwithstanding the above, no part of the award vests unless the growth in the Companys EPS over the same performance period exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI by an average of at least 3% per annum.
An award lapses if it does not vest at the end of the three-year performance period.
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Conditions for Awards Granted in the Year ended 29 March 2008 and Later Years As highlighted in the 2007 and 2008 Annual Reports, a different form of performance condition applies to all awards granted in the year ended 29 March 2008 and beyond.
The Committee believes that these new conditions strike an appropriate balance between i incentivising participants to achieve superior returns for shareholders: and ii applying measures which are directly relevant to, and understood by, participants.
In summary, they are as follows: The vesting of 50% of an award will be determined by the extent to which the Companys TSR over a three-year period outperforms the TSR achieved by the median company in a comparator group comprised of food producer companies.
For the awards granted in the years ended 29 March 2008 and 4 April 2009, the required levels of TSR outperformance are as follows: TSR performance achieved Proportion of TSR element of award vesting Below median Nil Equal to median 25% Median 12% p. a.
100% Between median and median 12% p. a.
