78 Corporate governance Annual report and financial statements any political party and the Groups policy is not to make any donations Performance Share Plan Awards would vest pro-rata to service in the for political purposes in the normally accepted sense.
performance period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of Company performance: A resolution will therefore be proposed at the 2010 AGM seeking Annual Performance Related Award deferred shares The shares shareholder approval for the directors to be given authority to make would be released from trust immediately: donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by ShareSave Options would become exercisable immediately.
the terms of the Companies Act 2006.
The authority sought will be The new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange limited to a maximum amount of 25,000 per Group company but so as for cancellation of the existing option: and not to exceed 50,000 for the entire Group in aggregate.
Share Incentive Plan Consideration received as shares would be held within the Plan, if possible, otherwise the consideration would be During the year, one of our US subsidiaries made a contribution towards treated as a disposal from the Plan.
the running expenses of a political action committee PAC organised by its employees in an amount of US$24,636 2008: US$23,700.
PACs are a Essential commercial relationships common feature of the US political system and are governed by the Supply chain Federal Election Campaign Act.
The Rolls-Royce PAC is independent of Certain suppliers to the Group contribute key components or services, the Company and independent of any political party.
Its funds are the loss of which could cause disruption to the Groups deliveries.
contributed voluntarily by employees and the Company cannot affect However, none are so vital that their loss would affect the viability of how they are applied.
Such contributions do not require authorisation the business as a whole.
When dealing with suppliers, the Group is by shareholders under the Companies Act 2006 and therefore do not guided by the Supply Chain Relationships in Aerospace SCRIA initiative.
count towards the 25,000 and 50,000 limits for political donations and It seeks the best possible terms from suppliers and when entering into expenditure for which shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM.
binding purchasing contracts, gives consideration to quality, delivery, price and the terms of payment.
In the event of disputes, efforts are Change of control made to resolve them quickly.
As the Company is a holding company Contracts and joint venture agreements and does not itself trade, it owed no amounts to trade creditors at There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements which December 31, 2009 and therefore the number of creditor days required would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements to be shown in this report to comply with the provisions of the in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements Companies Act 2006 is nil.
are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Customers The increasingly global nature of the business, balanced across the civil Borrowings and other financial instruments aerospace, defence, marine and energy businesses, ensures that the The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various Group is not overly dependent on any individual customer.
These facilities generally include provisions which may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or termination Annual report and the financial statements of the facility upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
At December 31, 2009 these facilities were less than 50 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual per cent drawn.
report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to hedge its group and parent company financial statements in accordance with currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These contracts provide applicable law and regulations.
for termination or alteration in the event that a change of control of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness of the Group.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Employee share plans they are required to prepare the group financial statements in In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and employee share plans would be as follows: have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in Executive Share Option Plan All options granted have vested and are accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK exercisable.
Consequently, no early vesting is currently possible.
This Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Plan has now expired and no further options can be granted: Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance Annual report and financial statements continued 79 Under company law the directors must not approve the financial As described on page 63, the Group meets its funding requirements statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their and finance leases.
The table on page 58 shows the maturity profile of profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent the Groups outstanding debt facilities: a total of 108 million is due to company financial statements, the directors are required to: expire in 2010.
The Group has a further 450 million of term funding select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: available that is currently undrawn.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group has for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable sufficient financial resources.
As a consequence the Directors have a UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are well departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial placed to manage their business risks and to continue in operational statements: and existence for the foreseeable future, despite the current uncertain global prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it economic outlook.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys report confirms that: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure the Companys auditors are unaware: that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They ii the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Responsibility statement Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
i each of the Group and parent company financial statements, prepared Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of in accordance with IFRS and UK Accounting Standards respectively, financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the issuer and the undertakings included in the Going concern consolidation taken as a whole: and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect ii the Directors report on pages 1 to 79, incorporating by reference the its future development, performance and position are set out on pages Directors remuneration report on pages 80 to 90, includes a fair review 1 to 41 of the business review.
The financial position of the Group, its of the development and performance of the business and the position cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and financial risks are of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation described in pages 58 to 65 of the business review.
In addition, notes taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 1, 13, 14 and 16 of the consolidated financial statements include the uncertainties that they face.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for financial risk management, details of its cash and cash equivalents, indebtedness and borrowing By order of the Board facilities and its financial instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk Tim Rayner and commodity pricing risk.
General Counsel and Company Secretary February 10, 2010 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
