38 Business review Review of operations continued Operations 2009 proved to be a challenging year but Our focus continues to be on operational excellence, strong also one of notable achievement for our partnerships and technological operations.
We improved our revenue per superiority.
employee significantly from 211,000 in Mike Terrett Chief Operating Officer 2008 to 233,000 in 2009.
291m Capital expenditure The Group managed the disruptive effects of the recession and changes to programmes, we reduced our inventory levels and, although gas turbine product costs increased slightly, these were held at a level of three per cent above those of 2008.
Our operational activity in 2009 centred around two prime objectives: managing our own activities and those of the supply chain in a weak global economic climate, while at the same time continuing with our programme of investment for the future.
The Groups operations and its supply chain faced the challenges of uncertain market conditions, depressed financing markets and volatility in major programmes such as the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, Airbus A380 airliner and the A400M military airlifter.
Weaker demand in the corporate and regional jet market and for civil engine overhauls and spare parts in the large engine market, reduced levels of activity and impacted on productivity and unit costs.
Our marine business had a record year, placing additional demand on New facilities operations.
Although certain product areas saw a slowdown in The Group is investing substantially in new facilities in the UK, US and Asia.
production, we also introduced an unprecedented number of new products in this sector.
Nevertheless, the supply chain coped well by Our process excellence and improvement journeys continued using our production planning and management tools and we were throughout 2009.
Our joint venture engine overhaul facilities, Hong able to successfully match capacity to demand.
Kong Aero Engine Services Limited HAESL and Singapore Aero Engine Services Limited SAESL, were the latest to benefit from the rollout of Across the Group we sought to ensure that we maintained the correct the enterprise resource planning and SAP process systems.
balance of employees to meet current and anticipated demand.
This did involve some difficult decisions and, regrettably, some redundancies.
Around 500 engineers based at our engineering support services Our employees remain understanding, loyal and cooperative, working business in India, also became connected to our design network, with us to help mitigate the effects wherever possible and I would like to Product Life-cycle Management, and are now able to work concurrently thank them for their support.
on design models with colleagues around the world.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Review of operations continued 39 Singapore We opened an extension to our joint venture repair and overhaul business in Singapore.
Plans for our wholly-owned new facilities there also progressed.
Continuing with our investment plan is important, as the Group must increase its operational capability in order to deliver the inevitable growth over the next decade that we will experience.
This growth is as a result of the Groups improved market position and current order book commitments.
We announced further new investments in facilities in 2009 and work commenced on facilities that had already been announced.
Construction of our new US-based disc manufacturing centre in Crosspointe, Virginia, began during the year.
Our plans progressed on the building of the new assembly and test facility for Trent engines at the Seletar Aerospace Park, Singapore.
We also announced that we will build an additional wide-chord fan blade facility on an adjacent site at Seletar, bringing the total investment on the site to 300 million and creating 500 jobs over the next few years.
Highlights A further 300 million of significant capital investment in the UK was also announced, creating or securing 800 jobs.
The Group is to build a new Recession and delays to major programmes managed successfully single crystal turbine blade facility at a location yet to be determined Announced investment in Singapore facilities now at 300 million and in Sunderland we are to build a new discs facility.
We are also 300 million investment in UK facilities announced in 2009 extending our wide-chord fan blade facility at Barnoldswick to support Building of new US facility commenced our defence business.
These gas turbine facilities are addressing the Global integration of people and systems continues planned increase in the manufacturing of components that the Group sees as necessary over the next five years and they will help provide improved productivity benefits on our current product range.
Key performance indicators In addition, we announced in 2009 our intention to create a new facility 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 in the UK to support our emerging civil nuclear business.
Capital expenditure m 232 303 304 283 291 Despite the planned increases in our own capability, the proportion of Product cost index parts that the Group buys, including through our partnerships, will also year-on-year continue to increase as we move towards having fewer, larger and more increase decrease % 5 7 4 3 capable suppliers to support our global operations.
Underlying revenue 1 per employee 000 169 182 194 211 233 The increasing globalisation of our own operations and of our supply 1 Calculated on a three-year rolling basis chain will, over time, bring together world-class capabilities, while also helping to reduce the Groups US dollar exposure.
Our focus continues to be on operational excellence, strong partnerships and technological superiority, as we manage the current economic situation alongside continuing with our investments to provide the increased operational capacity we require for future growth.
While we expect 2010 to be no less volatile, it is pleasing to reflect on a year of strong progress.
Our operations have proven to be robust and adaptable, giving us confidence in our ability to cope well with challenges and changes as we move ahead.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
