Business Review Operations Equal Opportunities in 19 Employees Employment and systems managed by personnel The Group remains committed to RPS provides equal opportunities for all professionals throughout the businesses creating an employment environment its employees and potential employees and countries in which we operate.
which will attract, retain and motivate regardless of their sex, sexual orientation, employees of high calibre.
Throughout age, race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, The Company operates a Share the Group emphasis is placed upon marital status, colour and nationality.
Incentive Plan in the United Kingdom personal development to meet both The policy applies to all aspects of and similar plans overseas.
These current and future needs.
Employee employment including the advertisement plans, which are open to the majority communication and consultation of jobs, recruitment and appointment, of the Groups employees, enable is encouraged at all levels of the training, conditions of work and pay.
employees to purchase RPS shares with business.
The criteria for selection and the Company providing a matching promotion are the individuals suitability share contribution.
The Company for the position offered based on their also operates a Performance Share qualifications, experience, skills and Plan in which more senior employees abilities.
Business units manage the participate and which offers the remuneration of staff within the guidelines potential to build a significant equity of approved annual budgets.
We have interest over a number of years.
appropriate human resource structures Operating Structure and 27.
Our principal businesses in both Our operating structure has developed the UK and overseas employ appropriately as the Group has grown in size and qualified accounting, human resource and complexity driven by the need to other support staff.
In the recent period achieve the correct balance between the of economic uncertainty this structure has autonomy that enables our businesses enabled the extra attention to detail that to operate in a flexible and responsive is vital to ensure operational efficiency and fashion, whilst ensuring transparency and careful cost management.
The In addition to retaining appropriate Group is split into a number of operating control, the Group provides support divisions and companies, which focus on to the sales and marketing activities the principal markets that we serve both of our businesses through its business by sector and geography.
Our smaller information unit which is also responsible business units focus on specialised areas for the maintenance and development but are accountable to the relevant of the Groups intranet and website.
divisional or operating company Board.
We have continued to invest in Underpinning this structure is a set of information technology to facilitate better clear obligations in terms of reporting and communication and flow of information authorities that operates throughout the both internally and externally.
Group and as is described on pages 26 Planning advisors for the largest healthcare PFI in Europe at St Bartholomew and Royal London Hospitals rpsgroup.
com Operations Appraisals are intended to complement We recognise our obligations to ensure succession planning.
RPS came third 20 the standard staff induction programme that people with disabilities are afforded in Britains Top Employers 2009, a on Company policy and procedures, equal opportunities to employment and book researched and published by the which covers topics including safety progress within the Group.
This or equipment handling and involves organisation has been given special RPS policy on equal opportunities covers assessments of competency on a more recognition by the EU Commission for its all areas of discrimination.
Staff appraisal is a outstanding contribution to employer best continuous process and is not limited practice in several EU countries.
Training and Continuous to formal meetings.
However, formal Professional Development Divisional Directors, their appointed appraisal meetings take place in many RPS is committed to the training, project managers and professional parts of the Group at least once a year.
education and development of its trainers are responsible for the employees to increase effectiveness, management of training and for the RPS is a recognised commercial training develop potential and ensure adequate verification of technical competence for provider in a number of specific technical project personnel, in accordance with fields and is certified by such external our quality management system.
bodies as CCNSG ECITB on site safety courses.
RPS operates a CIWEM We aim to identify and provide approved structured training scheme for training, education and development its chartered water and environmental for employees, in order that they can engineers and MICE and MIEI approved develop and apply this knowledge to CPD schemes for civil engineers in the greater and more demanding roles in UK and Ireland.
Our aim is to help the the future.
Wherever possible we try to development of individuals throughout identify successors to key posts within their employment with the Company, the organisation as part of our ongoing by underpinning their strengthening skills succession management policy.
and professional ethics, whilst broadening Externally advertised posts are initially their business knowledge.
One of the Radioactive waste retrieval and treatment at Sellafield published on the JoinRPS.
com careers key objectives of the scheme is the longwebsite and promoted internally via the term commitment to CPD of all existing Groups Intranet.
Central to identifying staff within the organisation.
Thereby, our training and educational needs is staff individuals are always able to demonstrate appraisal.
This activity is concerned with technical experience in specific sectors, developing staff by identifying and meeting such as the water industry, or in relevant performance and training needs as well as aspects of environmental consultancy.
Expert witness to the Appeal Court of the Hague Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review n Coventry University, n University of Wales, Newport, BA Group 21 BEng in Building Services Hons in Business Studies and HNC Average number 2009 2008 of employees in Business Studies Course n Stourbridge College, BTEC National Number of employees 4,254 4,438 Certificate in Building Service n University of York, Days absent % 1.8 1.7 Engineering in Electrics MSc in Risk Management Average length of service years 5.4 5.0 n University of Southampton, n University of Bristol, Working part time % 11 7 BSc in Acoustics HNC in Water Management Retention rate % 78 90 n Anglia Ruskin University, n Birbeck College, Age profile BSc in Environmental Planning BSc in Computing Science Employees aged under 25 % 9 11 Employees aged 25-29 % 19 19 n University College Cardiff, Employees aged 30-49 % 53 52 MSc in Town Planning Employees aged 50 % 19 18 n St Andrews University, MSc in Ecology Academic Bursaries n Stirling University, M. Phil in Ecology For the seventh consecutive year, RPS in n fide Montfort University, MSc in the UK continued its practice of awarding Energy and Sustainable Buildings, academic bursaries to students studying at Post Graduate MSc in Energy and university.
In 2009, this included students Sustainable Building attending courses at twenty four UK n London Southbank University, universities: HNC in Civil Engineering n Christs College, University of Cambridge, MEng in Civil Engineering n University of Nottingham, and MEng in Structural Engineering MEng in Civil Engineering BioFuels production facility in Houston, Texas n Loughborough University, n Birmingham City University, BA MEng in Civil Engineering Hons in Architecture, MA in Urban Design & PG Dip in Architecture n Nottingham Trent University, BEng in Civil Engineering n South Birmingham College, HNC in Building Construction, HNC n University of Newcastle, BSE HVAC MEng in Mechanical Engineering n University of Central England, n Wolverhampton University, BSc in MA in Planning Architectural Design Technology and BTEC in Civil Engineering n University of Nottingham, MSc in Engineering Surveying and Geodesy Principal designer and landscape architect for Brisbane Airport Link rpsgroup.
com Operations n Queens University Belfast, MEng in Australia Growth and Funding 22 Civil Engineering and a Masters in Despite current economic circumstances n Curtin University, diploma in Sustainable Development RPS operates in markets which are Accountancy generally attractive and expanding with Ireland n Edith Cowan University, good long-term prospects, but which are n University College, Dublin, BA in Accountancy fast changing.
We need, therefore, to keep CEng in Civil Engineering our products and services and how we n Swinburne University of Technology market and deliver them under continuous Spain in New South Wales review.
The Board believes that the longn University of Valencia, MBA studies in RPS provided funding to Masters level term health and growth of the Group will Building Services Engineering students to pursue studies in engineering be best secured by ensuring that RPS is, related disciplines.
RPS sponsors the Gold and is perceived by clients and staff to be, Medal for the top Civil Engineering student a market leader in each of our business at University College Dublin and the areas.
Our corporate strategy is designed Centre for Talented Youth programme.
In Ireland, RPS North South Scholarships We are endeavouring to deliver long-term in Sustainable Development continued in shareholder value and have, therefore, 2009.
Launched in 2008, these scholarships to balance annual earnings growth with are designed to promote all-island investment in both our existing clients, staff co-operation and assist the economic and products and the development of our development of the North South Business product offering and capability.
corridor as part of the implementation The acquisition strategy RPS has pursued of the structures set up under the Good over the last decade has brought Friday Agreement.
Two equivalent RPS considerable benefit to shareholders, bursaries were open to graduates with clients and staff.
The companies acquired a primary degree from one jurisdiction have enabled us to build strong positions proposing to do a Masters degree in the in a number of markets.
This has included other jurisdiction.
the creation of a substantial business in the energy sector.
This, in turn, enables us to offer a broader, higher quality service to our clients and attractive employment to staff and potential recruits.
The financial performance of the companies which have been acquired has increased the Groups growth.
The Board sees the maintenance of this element of the strategy as being of importance to the continued growth of Wetlands translocation project, Waterford, Ireland Report and Accounts 2009 Business Review RPS and will consider more significant Shareholder Value 23 acquisitions, as well as making acquisitions The Board manages the Group in order outside the countries in which we to achieve good levels of growth in currently operate.
At the year end the shareholder value on a consistent longGroup had net bank borrowings of 32.8 term basis.
The Board, however, million Note 25.
RPS normally generates recognises that this can only be achieved sufficient free cash to fund its working by providing a competitive service which capital and capital expenditure adds value to our clients organisations requirements.
Additional cash resources and offering an attractive working are, therefore, only needed in order to environment and career prospects to our pursue the Groups acquisition strategy.
Striking this balance whilst also respecting our responsibility to society From time to time, the Board therefore at large is the main task facing secures funds by means of arranging debt the Board.
Current economic finance or equity placings.
circumstances make the achievement of The Board believes the Groups current this balance even more challenging.
bank facilities of 125 million are adequate for current purposes, but would be Corporate Governance prepared to increase them in order to RPS operates to a strong system of make appropriate investments.
governance in order to safeguard the interests of its shareholders.
The Dividend Policy structures and policies that are in place For a number of years our dividend per to achieve this are set out on pages 49 share has grown at an average annual to 60. compound rate of about 15%.
Our ability to maintain this level of growth will depend upon the scale of earnings growth, the nature and scale of future Cross border power grid, Ireland acquisitions and how that investment is funded.
The final dividend will normally be greater than the interim payment.
Northshore Riverside Park: award-winning landscape design by Conics rpsgroup.
