Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements, 1 the groups financial statements are set out below.
These policies is effective from 1 July 2009. have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless Amendments to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and otherwise stated.
1 measurement are effective from 1 July 2009. a Basis of preparation Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been Consolidated and separate financial statements is effective prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting from 1 July 2009.
Standards as adopted for use in the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies IFRS 1 revised, First-time adoption, is effective from 1 reporting under IFRS.
All International Financial Reporting Standards 1 July 2009. issued by the IASB and effective at the time of preparing these IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, is effective from consolidated financial statements have been adopted for use in 1 1 July 2009. the EU through the endorsement procedure established by the European Commission.
IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes is effective from 1 July 2008.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described in the accounting policies below.
The The adoption of these standards, interpretations and amendments accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
is not anticipated to have a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial position of the group.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical c Significant judgements and estimates accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
often required where the choice of specific policy, assumption Actual results could differ from those estimates.
or accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net position of the group, should it later b Recent accounting developments be determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
i Standards and interpretations of published standards effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2008: Management considers the following to be areas of significant judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement: funding requirements and their interaction.
i Impairment reviews Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments and IFRS 7, Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant Financial Instruments: Disclosures Reclassification of Financial cash generating unit CGU.
Impairment reviews in respect of the Assets effective from 1 July 2008 provides guidance on the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually, or more regularly if reclassification of non-derivative financial assets.
events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based The adoption of these interpretations and amendments has not had on future cash flows discounted using the weighted average cost a material effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial of capital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated position of the group.
applying the long-term growth rate.
The future cash flows which are based on business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the ii Standards and amendments to published standards that are not discount rates used are dependent on management estimates and yet effective and have not been early adopted by the group judgements.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse published that are mandatory for the groups accounting periods impact on the results and net position of the group.
Details of the beginning on or after 1 April 2009 or later periods but that the group estimates used in the impairment reviews for the year are set out has not early adopted: in note 10.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Financial instruments: ii Taxation 1 Recognition and measurement are effective from 1 July 2008.
The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, is effective from the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by its nature 1 January 2009. complex, and cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure is has been reached with the relevant tax authority which may take effective from 1 January 2009. several years to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based on managements interpretation of country specific tax laws and the IFRS 8, Operating Segments, is effective from 1 January 2009. likelihood of settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements, is effective provided which could have a significant impact on the results and from 1 January 2009. net position of the group.
IAS 23 revised, Borrowing costs is effective from 1 January iii Pension and post-retirement benefits 2009.
Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and in the balance sheet and to determine the charges to be made to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial the income statement in accordance IAS 19.
The calculations of Instruments and Obligations arising on liquidation are effective these obligations and charges are based on assumptions determined from 1 January 2009. by management which include discount rates, salary and pension inflation, healthcare cost inflation, mortality rates and expected longterm rates of return on assets.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 31.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group and future results.
72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued iv Property, plant and equipment Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory accounting The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of reference date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
management prepared information on a basis coterminous with the The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual companys accounting reference date.
values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any ii Associates changes could affect prospective depreciation charges and asset Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest carrying values.
and over which the group has directly or indirectly significant v Business combinations influence, where significant influence is the ability to influence the On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of the financial and operating policies of the entity.
fair value and the useful life of intangible assets acquired is performed, The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory accounting reference which requires the application of management judgement.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this events could cause the assumptions used by the group to change company is included based on financial statements drawn up to the which would have a significant impact on the results and net position previous 31 December, but taking into account any changes in the of the group.
subsequent period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially vi Exceptional items affect the results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a basis.
period which have been determined by management as being iii Joint ventures material by their size or incidence and are presented separately Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has within the results of the group.
The determination of which items entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic are disclosed as exceptional items will affect the presentation of activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually profit measures including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only and requires a degree of judgement.
Details relating to exceptional when the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the items reported during the year are set out in note 4. activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the vii MillerCoors joint venture control.
The determination of the valuation of the Coors business contributed f Foreign exchange to the MillerCoors joint venture was a specific area of judgement for i Foreign exchange translation the group during the financial year.
The valuation was determined Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups using recognised valuation techniques based upon specific entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic assumptions.
If alternative assumptions had been used then the environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
value of the investment and gain recognised on disposal would The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars have been different.
which is the groups presentational currency.
The exchange rates to d Segmental reporting the US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial statements A reportable segment is a distinguishable business or geographical were as follows: component of the group that provides products or services that are Year ended Year ended different from those of other segments.
Segments results, assets 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well Average rate as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
South African rand ZAR 8.87 7.13 The groups primary segmental analyses are in accordance with the Colombian peso COP 2,061 1,997 basis on which the businesses are managed and according to the Euro 0.69 0.71 differing risk and reward profiles.
The group presents its geographic Czech koruna CZK 17.54 19.28 analysis as its primary segmentation.
Polish zloty PLN 2.51 2.64 Closing rate The group presents its product analysis as its secondary South African rand ZAR 9.61 8.15 segmentation.
This is analysed between secondary segments Colombian peso COP 2,561 1,822 of Beer, Soft drinks and Other.
Euro 0.76 0.63 e Basis of consolidation Czech koruna CZK 20.57 16.06 SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated Polish zloty PLN 3.52 2.23 in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial information of the subsidiary, The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the associate and joint venture entities owned by the company.
average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have been weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the groups i Subsidiaries businesses.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating ii Transactions and balances policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities, The financial statements for each group company have been regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in minority interests.
at the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at control commences until the date control ceases.
the balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being included in operating profit in the income statement other than those Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within net and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments of the asset transferred.
classified as available for sale assets are included in equity.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired One-off items in the income and cash flow statements of overseas business, the results of the business are included in the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies results up to the effective date of disposal.
The profit or loss on other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of disposal or termination is calculated after charging the amount of exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items any related goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant taken to the income statement.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are ii Associates and joint ventures translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of All translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity opening net assets together with differences between income method from the date significant influence or joint control commences statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
The date as a separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets significant influence or joint control commences is not necessarily the include loans between group companies that form part of the net same as the closing date or any other date named in the contract.
investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is disposed The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures of, any related exchange differences in equity are recycled through post-tax results as a one line entry before profit before tax in the the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
income statement and its share of associates and joint ventures equity movements as a one line entry in the statement of total Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of recognised income and expense.
a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its g Business combinations interest in the associate or joint venture, the group only provides for i Subsidiaries additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of obligations to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the subsidiaries.
The identifiable net assets including intangibles, are associate or joint venture.
Where the investment in an associate or incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of their fair joint venture is disposed, the investment ceases to be equity value from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary accounted.
undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
iii Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or costs of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent of an entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
fair value of the groups share of identifiable net assets acquired Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the difference is recorded dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether this as negative goodwill.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is power is actually exercised.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values reflecting Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable for impairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identified is assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined by reference to market values, where available, or by reference to The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash associate or joint venture.
flows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free Where a business combination occurs in several stages, the goodwill rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash flows.
associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets at the date of each additional share purchase.
given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed h Intangible assets at the date of the acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation acquisition.
It also includes the groups estimate of any deferred on a straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Where the business combination agreement usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset provides for an adjustment to the cost that is contingent on future has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Amortisation events, contingent consideration is included in the cost of an is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
acquisition if the adjustment is probable that is, more likely than Internally generated intangibles are not recognised except for not and can be measured reliably.
The difference between the costs applied development costs referred to under research and of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is capitalised development below.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their estimated Where the group purchases additional shares in subsidiaries such useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where purchases are reflected as separate acquisition processes and no there is a triggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its revised fair valuation is required.
The difference between the costs amortisation rates and residual values to take account of any of acquisition and the share of the net assets acquired is capitalised changes in circumstances.
The directors assessment of the useful as goodwill.
life of intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, the durability of the products to which the asset attaches and the expected future impact of competition on the business.
74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are i Property, plant and equipment recognised separately when they are identifiable, it is probable that Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated economic benefits will flow to the group and the fair value can be depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition i Brands recognised as part of a business combination of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has value or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate, only when it a long-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title is probable that future economic benefits associated with the specific is clear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the asset will flow to the group and the cost can be measured reliably.
business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identifiable.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement The group typically arrives at the cost of such brands on a relief from during the financial period in which they are incurred.
i Assets in the course of construction Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying the group has exclusive rights to those brands.
assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part appropriate category.
At this point depreciation commences on the of a business combination same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at ii Assets held under finance leases a fair value representing the remaining contractual period with Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
Contractual capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets arrangements and relationships with customers and distributors are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair are also valued on a similar basis.
value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, then depreciated over their useful lives.
The Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences or capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for which a liability in the balance sheet classified, as appropriate, as a current the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income streams.
The interest element of the lease obligations iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term as part of a business combination to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists obligation for each financial period.
These are recognised as intangible iii Returnable containers assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, attributable to these lists or relationships.
plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
respect of licences or contracts currently held, the amortisation period Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to is the period for which the group has the benefit of these assets.
write the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This iv Software is typically undertaken in a two stage process: Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of of property, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as 1 to 10 years.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis loss in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held to of the costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs write off the deposit value over the expected bottle design period associated with the production of identifiable and unique internally which is a period of no more than 10 years from the inception of a generated software products controlled by the group that will bottle design.
This period is shortened where appropriate by probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond reference to market dynamics and the ability of the entity to use one year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development bottles for different brands.
employment costs including those of contractors used and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised computer software, iv Depreciation licence and development costs are amortised over their useful No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course economic lives of between three and eight years.
In respect of all other plant, property and equipment, depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer write off the cost less the estimated residual value of each asset over software programmes are expensed as incurred.
its expected useful life as follows: v Research and development Freehold buildings 20 50 years Research and general development expenditure is written off in Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term the period in which it is incurred.
or 50 years Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years generated intangible assets where there is a clearly defined project, Returnable containers separately identifiable expenditure, an outcome assessed with non-returnable containers reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, are recorded as inventory 1 10 years expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the Assets held under finance leases Lower of the lease term resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a or life of the asset straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial into account are the expected rate of technological developments, assets and liabilities are offset.
expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity Interest costs are charged against income in the year in which they at which the assets are expected to be used.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference between The profit or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or issued and between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance costs over the v Capitalisation of borrowing costs life of the instrument.
Direct financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during the period of development or construction that necessarily There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
take a substantial period of time to be developed for their intended These are described as follows: use, are capitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through j Advance payments made to customers principally profit or loss hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value though profit or Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the loss includes derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial value and are amortised in the income statement over the relevant assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in period to which the customer commitment is made typically 3 to 5 the income statement.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment losses.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial Where there is a volume target the amortised cost of the advance is instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in are specific marketing activities commitments the cost is included the future.
The amounts capitalised are reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired where there These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if the host contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as Assets held at customer premises are included within plant, property a derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on it is closely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency similar assets.
exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit k Inventories the need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in as follows: international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an economic environment.
Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature.
direct costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a FIFO basis.
For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further in the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
l Financial assets and financial liabilities ii Loans and receivables Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed value plus any directly attributable transactions costs where or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
For those financial instruments that are not subsequently They arise when the group provides money, goods or services held at fair value, the group assesses whether there is any objective directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
evidence of impairment at each balance sheet date.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities of greater Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified access to economic benefits.
Such assets consist of cash, equity as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial at fair value including originating fees and transaction costs, and asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are method less provision for impairment.
Loans and receivables include derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset trade receivables, amounts owed by associates trade, amounts have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred owed by joint ventures trade, accrued income and cash and substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to a.
Trade receivables transfer benefits and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is discharged, cancelled or expired.
76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all from the cash flows of other assets, the group estimates the amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount recoverable amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value assets belongs.
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted CGUs are considered to be groups of assets that have separately at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in identifiable cash flows.
They also include those assets and liabilities the income statement.
directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more than one income stream.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank deposits An impairment loss is held firstly against any specifically impaired repayable on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments assets.
Where an additional impairment is recognised against the with original maturities of three months or less.
CGU, the impairment is then taken against goodwill and if there is any remaining loss it is set against the remaining assets on a pro iii Available for sale investments rata basis.
Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified as financial Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of assets at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables.
a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes are irreversible.
in fair value including any related foreign exchange movements are Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Assets subject to recognised in equity.
On disposal or impairment of available for sale amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or investments, any gains or losses in equity are recycled through the events change to indicate that the carrying value may not be income statement.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classified as held for are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less investments have expired or have been transferred and the group costs to sell.
has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Such assets are classified as held for resale if their carrying amount iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, continued use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is accruals, amounts owed to associates trade, amounts owed to highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate joint ventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
sale in its present condition and when management is committed to a.
Trade payables the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently sale within one year from date of classification.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
o Provisions Trade payables are analysed between current and non-current Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is obligation to settle will be realised.
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle b.
Borrowings the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classified as The carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer reflect the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance the movement is recognised in the income statement within net sheet date.
Borrowings classified as hedged items are subject to finance costs.
hedge accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties shown within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within and employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised cash and cash equivalents on the face of the cash flow statement for future operating losses, however, provisions are recognised for as they form an integral part of the groups cash management.
onerous contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the m Impairment expected benefit.
This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial p Share capital assets see note l, non-current assets classified as held for sale Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly see note n, and deferred tax assets see note u. attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
of the non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less by employee benefit trusts costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee benefit on disposal of the asset.
The value in use of the asset is determined trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the by discounting, at a market based pre-tax discount rate, the expected shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
future cash flows resulting from its continued use, including those arising from its final disposal.
When the carrying values of non-current Purchases of such shares are classified in the cash flow statement as assets are written down by any impairment amount, the loss is a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares recognised in the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
for treasury within net cash from financing activities.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued any u Taxation consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that the companys equity shareholders.
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
r Revenue recognition i Sale of goods and services Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike of all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial It is not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, statements, except where the temporary difference arises from increases in excise are not always directly passed on to customers, goodwill or from the initial recognition other than a business and the group cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that for product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
to the group and reflects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of excise that is recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
an asset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, a liability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate on temporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the exception that these are included within other income.
balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable ii Interest income or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also interest method.
recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash such as withholding taxes might be payable.
flows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind the discount as interest income.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is iii Royalty income probable that future taxable profit will be available against which Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance the temporary differences including carried forward tax losses with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
iv Dividend income Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse is established.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively s Operating leases enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are non-discounted basis.
charged or credited to the income statement on a straight-line v Dividend distributions basis over the lease term.
Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised t Exceptional items as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim material by their size or incidence, the group reflects such items as dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint obligation at the balance sheet date.
ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates, joint ventures, net w Employee benefits finance costs and tax exceptional items are only referred to in the i Wages and salaries notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, income statement as the employees services are rendered.
excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs Where certain income statement items incurred are of a capital The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued nature or are considered material and non-recurring, the group vacation pay when such benefits are earned and not when these presents alternative earnings per share calculations both on a benefits are paid.
headline under the South African Circular 8 2007 definition and on an adjusted basis.
78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.
Accounting policies continued The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term The contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain an expense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid appropriately discounted to reflect the future payment dates at contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
vi Other post-employment obligations iii Profit-sharing and bonus plans Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are profit-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries and the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after certain contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected adjustments.
service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside the or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive income statement and are presented in the statement of recognised obligation.
At a mid year point an accrual is maintained for the income and expense.
These obligations are valued annually by appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would independent qualified actuaries.
become payable at the year end.
vii Termination benefits iv Share-based compensation Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated The group operates a variety of equity-settled, share-based before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts compensation plans.
These comprise share option plans with voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group and without non-market performance conditions attached and a recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed performance share award scheme with market conditions attached.
to terminating the employment of current employees according to An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing granted after 7 November 2002 over the vesting period on a termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months that will eventually vest.
This expense is offset by a corresponding after balance sheet date are discounted to present value in a similar adjustment made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The manner to all long-term employee benefits.
estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting The charge is based on the fair value of the award as at the date Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and or loss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative Monte Carlo simulations.
instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange and interest rate risks, The charge is not reversed if the options are not exercised because comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward the market value of the shares is lower than the option price at the foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used date of grant.
to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction in line with the groups risk management policies.
The group also has costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium derivatives embedded in other contracts primarily cross border when the options are exercised.
foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
v Pension obligations Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative The group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value and the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating This effectiveness test is re-performed at each period end to to the terms of the related pension liability.
ensure that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment of recognised income and expense, with the exception of gains or fair value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions losses arising from changes in the benefits regarding past services, or commitments cash flow hedge : or hedges of net investments which are recognised in the income statement.
in foreign operations net investment hedge.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued i Fair value hedges y Deposits by customers Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments Returnable bottles and containers in circulation are recorded within designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded rate risk to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are in respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative offset the relevant paid by customers for branded returnable containers are reflected in changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item attributable the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that to the hedged risk in the income statement in the period incurred.
may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers and bottles is shown in provisions.
Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recorded in the income statement together with the z Earnings per share gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Basic earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent ii Cash flow hedges entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Cash flow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest shares held in the groups employee benefit trust and in treasury rate risk to which the cash flows of certain liabilities are exposed.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting is recognised as a Diluted earnings per share represents the profit on ordinary activities separate component of equity.
The ineffective portion is recognised after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders, divided by immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the equity are recycled to the income statement in the period in which year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares held in the hedged item affects profit or loss.
However, where a forecasted the groups employee benefit trust and in treasury during the year, transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, the accumulated plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting from fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding initial cost of the asset or liability.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward exchange contracts and cross currency swaps designated in a hedging relationship.
Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
These largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the translation of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the foreign currency translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only recycled to the income statement upon disposal of the net investment.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and amounts previously recorded in equity are recycled to the income statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
Certain derivative instruments, whilst providing effective economic hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis Primary reporting format geographical segments Income statement Share of post-tax Share of results of post-tax Segment Segment associates and Segment Segment results of revenue result joint ventures Total revenue result associates Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,484 1,102 1 1,103 5,239 892 892 Europe 6,118 448 4 452 5,242 947 1 948 North America 1,553 639 228 867 5,120 411 411 Africa and Asia 2,085 352 191 543 1,853 330 150 480 South Africa 3,463 704 92 796 3,956 962 121 1,083 Corporate 97 97 94 94 Group 18,703 3,148 516 3,664 21,410 3,448 272 3,720 Net finance costs 706 456 Profit before tax 2,958 3,264 Taxation 801 976 Profit for the year 2,157 2,288 Voluntary income statement disclosures for the primary reporting format Alternative performance measures have been provided below on a segmental basis since the directors believe that they give a useful additional indication of underlying performance.
Group revenue including associates and joint ventures Group Share of revenue associates including Group and joint associates Share of revenue Segment ventures and joint Segment associates including revenue revenue ventures revenue revenue associates 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 5,484 11 5,495 5,239 12 5,251 Europe 6,118 27 6,145 5,242 6 5,248 North America 1,553 3,674 5,227 5,120 5,120 Africa and Asia 2,085 2,047 4,132 1,853 1,514 3,367 South Africa: 3,463 840 4,303 3,956 886 4,842 Beverages 3,463 492 3,955 3,956 490 4,446 Hotels and Gaming 348 348 396 396 Group 18,703 6,599 25,302 21,410 2,418 23,828 There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
Revenue between segments is immaterial.
Operating profit Operating Operating profit before profit before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional profit gains losses items profit losses items 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,102 45 1,057 892 61 953 Europe 448 452 900 947 947 North America 639 409 230 411 51 462 Africa and Asia 352 352 330 330 South Africa: Beverages 704 704 962 962 Corporate 97 97 94 94 Group 3,148 2 3,146 3,448 112 3,560 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
Amortisation of intangible Amortisation Share of assets of intangible associates and excluding Share of assets joint ventures software associates excluding Operating operating group Operating operating software profit before profit before and share of profit before profit before group and exceptional exceptional associates and exceptional exceptional share of items items joint ventures EBITA items items associates EBITA 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,057 1 115 1,173 953 118 1,071 Europe 900 4 40 944 947 1 4 952 North America 230 314 37 581 462 15 477 Africa and Asia 352 283 7 642 330 231 7 568 South Africa: 704 181 1 886 962 203 2 1,167 Beverages 704 60 764 962 64 1,026 Hotels and Gaming 121 1 122 139 2 141 Corporate 97 97 94 94 Group 3,146 783 200 4,129 3,560 435 146 4,141 The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating profit is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating profit before exceptional items 783 435 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 91 Share of associates and joint ventures finance costs 25 11 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 113 120 Share of associates and joint ventures minority interests 38 32 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 516 272 EBITDA a reconciliation of group EBITDA after cash exceptional items to cash generated from operations can be found in note 27a.
This comprises the net cash generated from operations before working capital movements and after operating cash exceptional items.
EBITDA EBITDA before cash Cash before cash Cash exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items EBITDA items items EBITDA 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,418 19 1,399 1,319 17 1,302 Europe 1,239 6 1,233 1,203 1,203 1 North America 244 24 220 569 2 567 Africa and Asia 441 441 404 404 South Africa: Beverages 883 883 1,073 1,073 Corporate 12 12 31 31 Group 4,213 49 4,164 4,537 19 4,518 1 EBITDA excludes the results of associates and joint ventures and hence the decline in EBITDA for North America is due to the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business being contributed into the MillerCoors joint venture during the period.
82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis continued Balance sheet Total assets Investment in Segment associates and Unallocated Total Segment Investment in Unallocated Total 1 1 assets joint ventures assets assets assets associates assets assets 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 12,175 3 12,178 15,314 2 15,316 Europe 6,207 9 6,216 7,683 12 7,695 North America 326 5,463 5,789 6,041 6,041 Africa and Asia 2,307 1,516 3,823 1,906 1,475 3,381 South Africa 2,035 291 2,326 2,186 337 2,523 Corporate 414 414 470 470 Unallocated assets 873 873 656 656 Group 23,464 7,282 873 31,619 33,600 1,826 656 36,082 1 Unallocated assets include borrowings-related derivative financial instrument assets, current tax and deferred tax assets.
Total liabilities Segment Unallocated Total Segment Unallocated Total 1 1 liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities 2009 2009 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,055 1,055 1,400 1,400 Europe 1,055 1,055 1,325 1,325 North America 65 65 1,341 1,341 Africa and Asia 361 361 323 323 South Africa 491 491 569 569 Corporate 312 312 533 533 Unallocated liabilities 12,167 12,167 12,347 12,347 Group 3,339 12,167 15,506 5,491 12,347 17,838 1 Unallocated liabilities include borrowings including related derivative financial instrument liabilities, current tax and deferred tax liabilities.
Other segmental information Depreciation Impairment 1 and amortisation Other non-cash items losses recognised 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 406 396 99 2 5 3 Europe 349 256 49 3 409 7 North America 31 151 444 8 1 Africa and Asia 86 77 12 13 1 9 South Africa 145 145 51 18 10 Corporate 16 13 20 19 2 Group 1,033 1,038 411 27 425 22 1 Other non-cash items principally include profits on disposal of businesses, share option charges and unrealised gains losses from fair value hedges.
Capital expenditure 1 excluding acquisitions Acquisition activity Total capital expenditure 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 552 730 552 730 Europe 753 565 149 1,209 902 1,774 North America 38 166 38 166 Africa and Asia 502 295 40 542 295 South Africa 285 279 285 279 Corporate 17 26 17 26 Group 2,147 2,061 189 1,209 2,336 3,270 1 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Secondary reporting format Business segments 1 Revenue Total assets Capital expenditure 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Lager 15,751 18,681 19,706 29,414 1,872 3,036 Soft drinks 2,400 2,239 2,846 3,134 363 136 Other 552 490 912 1,052 101 98 Sub-total 18,703 21,410 23,464 33,600 2,336 3,270 Investment in associates and joint ventures 7,282 1,826 Unallocated assets 873 656 Group 18,703 21,410 31,619 36,082 2,336 3,270 1 Capital expenditure includes acquisitions and additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
There is no material difference between the source and destination of revenue.
Net operating expenses 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,203 5,869 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 69 208 Raw materials and consumables used 5,134 5,661 1 Excise duties 3,820 4,353 Employee benefits costs see note 6a 1,940 2,344 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 829 848 Owned assets 621 629 Under finance lease 5 4 Containers 203 215 Profit on disposal of available for sale investments 1 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 17 Profit on disposal of associates 1 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 10 Amortisation of intangible assets 204 190 Intangible assets excluding software 164 141 Software 40 49 Other expenses 4,352 4,657 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,281 2,743 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 308 351 Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 5 Impairment of trade and other receivables 31 17 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 65 61 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicle and systems 91 78 Research and development expenditure 7 9 Other operating expenses 1,175 1,393 Total net operating expenses by nature 15,832 18,232 Other income 277 270 Revenue received from royalties 36 32 Dividends received from investments 1 1 Other operating income 240 237 Net operating expenses 15,555 17,962 1 Excise duties of US$3,820 million 2008: US$4,353 million have been incurred during the year as follows: Latin America US$1,383 million 2008: US$1,334 million : Europe US$1,118 million 2008: US$995 million : North America US$239 million 2008: US$861 million : Africa and Asia US$454 million 2008: US$420 million and South Africa US$626 million 2008: US$743 million.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the profit for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a loss of US$34 million 2008: gain of US$7 million.
84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting firms as auditors of various parts of the group: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the groups auditors and their associates for: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 6 8 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 1 Other services relating to taxation 4 4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 3 1 Other services 4 6 Fees payable to the groups auditors for auditing of the parent companys annual accounts 1 2 16 23 1 In 2008, principally relating to assurance on internal financial control upgrade.
2009 2008 US$m US$m Other auditors Fees payable to other auditors for other services: Auditing of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1 1 Other services relating to taxation 2 3 Internal audit services 1 3 Other services 3 3 7 10 4.
Exceptional items 2009 2008 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating profit Impairments 392 Integration and restructuring costs 110 129 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 17 Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory 9 Litigation 13 Net exceptional gains losses included within operating profit 2 112 Exceptional items included in net finance costs Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Integration and restructuring costs 33 Impairment of intangible assets 38 Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory 13 Fair value losses on financial instruments 7 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses 91 Taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 56 40 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in operating profit Impairments During 2009, goodwill impairments were recorded in respect of the Grolsch business and Sarmat in Ukraine of US$350 million and US$14 million respectively.
Other impairments principally related to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment in Ukraine of US$28 million.
There were no impairments recorded as exceptional items in 2008.
Integration and restructuring costs During 2009, US$51 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Grolsch, Poland, the Czech Republic, Russia and Ukraine in Europe: US$31 million of restructuring costs were incurred in Latin America principally in Colombia: and US$28 million of staff retention and certain integration costs were recorded in North America relating to MillerCoors.
In 2008, in Latin America integration and restructuring costs of US$78 million associated with the consolidation of Bavaria were incurred and in North America a charge of US$51 million was recorded related to staff retention arrangements and for certain integration costs in preparation for the MillerCoors joint venture.
Profit on disposal of businesses During 2009, a profit of US$437 million arose in North America on the disposal of the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business into the MillerCoors joint venture see note 29 for further details.
In Latin America a net US$89 million profit on disposal was recorded on the disposal of the water business in Colombia and the soft drinks business in Bolivia.
In 2008, a net US$17 million profit on disposal was recognised on the disposal of soft drinks businesses in Costa Rica and Colombia.
Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory On the acquisition of Grolsch, inventory was fair valued to market value.
The uplift is charged to the income statement as the inventory is sold.
During 2009, US$9 million was charged to operating profit and treated as an exceptional item.
There was no unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory recorded as an exceptional item in 2008.
Litigation During 2009, a provision has been recorded in Latin America relating to ongoing litigation amounting to US$13 million 2008: US$nil.
Exceptional items included in net finance costs During 2009, a US$20 million gain arose on the early termination of financial derivatives 2008: US$nil.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Integration and restructuring costs The groups share of MillerCoors integration and restructuring costs of US$33 million mainly related to relocation and severance costs.
Impairment of intangible assets This relates to the groups share of the impairment of the Sparks brand recorded in MillerCoors.
Unwinding of fair value adjustments on inventory In 2009 the groups share of MillerCoors charge to operating profit in the year related to the unwind of the fair value adjustment to inventory of US$13 million.
Fair value losses on financial instruments The groups share of losses related to fair value mark to market adjustments on financial instruments at Hotels and Gaming amounted to US$7 million.
Taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items In 2009, taxation credits of US$56 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year and include US$31 million in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
The taxation credits recorded in 2008 arose in relation to the net exceptional items charged during the year.
86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.
Net finance costs 2009 2008 US$m US$m a.
Interest payable and similar charges Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 262 172 Interest element of derivatives 253 120 Interest payable on corporate bonds 406 401 Interest element of finance lease payments 1 1 Net exchange losses gains on financing activities 288 39 Fair value losses on financial instruments: 1 Fair value losses on dividend related derivatives 12 10 Fair value losses on standalone derivative financial instruments 27 23 1 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 22 Other finance charges 30 33 Total interest payable and similar charges 1,301 721 b.
Interest receivable and similar income Interest receivable 66 83 Interest element of derivatives 201 115 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Fair value gains on standalone derivative financial instruments 291 19 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 10 3 1 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 45 1 Fair value gains on dividend related derivatives 7 1 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Total interest receivable and similar income 595 265 Net finance costs 706 456 1 These items have been excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs are therefore US$699 million 2008: US$491 million.
Refer to note 22 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2009 2008 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,580 1,908 Share-based payments 79 79 Social security costs 164 199 Pension costs 99 120 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions 19 47 1,941 2,353 Of the US$1,941 million employee costs shown above, US$1 million has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment 2008: US$9 million.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors: 2009 2008 Number Number Latin America 24,793 25,389 Europe 15,987 12,921 North America 1,544 5,991 Africa and Asia 13,841 12,806 South Africa 12,184 11,749 Corporate 286 260 Group 68,635 69,116 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs continued c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are defined as key management.
At 31 March 2009, there were 23 2008: 24 key management.
2009 2008 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 23 31 Post-employment benefits 2 3 Share-based payments 14 14 39 48 The key management figures given above include the directors.
d. Directors 2009 2008 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 4,251,478 2008: 5,147,805 7 10 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 2 9 Company contributions to money purchase schemes 528,000 2008: 490,500 1 1 10 20 At 31 March 2009, two directors 2008: two had retirement benefits accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the remuneration report on pages 57 to 65.
Taxation 2009 2008 US$m US$m Current taxation 670 926 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$4 million charge 2008: US$nil 693 935 Adjustments in respect of prior years 23 9 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 67 64 Total current taxation 737 990 Deferred taxation 64 14 Charge for the year UK corporation tax: US$nil 2008: US$9 million credit 81 8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 14 17 Rate change 3 5 801 976 Tax on items credited charged to equity: Deferred tax credit charge on actuarial gains and losses 94 10 Deferred tax credit on financial instruments 31 2 125 8 Total current tax 737 990 Total deferred tax 61 6 Total taxation 676 984 Effective tax rate % 30.2 32.5 See page 156 for the definition of the effective tax rate.
This calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Although the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business were contributed into the MillerCoors joint venture during the period, MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations therefore remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the MillerCoors taxable profits and includes tax in equity on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included in equity.
88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.
Taxation continued Tax rate reconciliation 2009 2008 US$m US$m Profit before taxation 2,958 3,264 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 516 272 2,442 2,992 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 28% 2008: 30% 684 898 Exempt income 39 39 Other incentive allowances 21 19 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 62 88 Deferred tax asset not recognised 55 34 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 64 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 67 64 Other taxes 30 33 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 74 85 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 37 26 Deferred taxation rate change 3 5 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries 13 33 Total income tax expense 801 976 8.
Earnings per share 2009 2008 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 125.2 134.9 Diluted earnings per share 124.7 134.2 Headline earnings per share 119.0 133.0 Adjusted basic earnings per share 137.5 143.1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 136.8 142.4 The weighted average number of shares was: 2009 2008 Millions Millions of shares of shares Ordinary shares 1,514 1,504 Treasury shares see note 25 7 EBT ordinary shares 5 4 Basic shares 1,502 1,500 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 7 8 Diluted shares 1,509 1,508 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 10,982,094 2008: 7,827,902 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year, and 8,912,780 2008: 6,971,801 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards have not been met.
These share awards could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
7,192,730 share awards were granted after 31 March 2009 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share figure to exclude the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software and other non-recurring items in order to present a more useful comparison for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 8 2007 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,881 2,023 Headline adjustments Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 5 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 12 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 17 Tax effects of the above items 4 4 Minority interests share of the above items 1 Share of joint ventures and associates headline adjustments, net of tax and minority interests 34 Headline earnings 1,788 1,995 Integration and restructuring costs 108 129 1 Net loss gain on fair value movements on capital items 27 35 Unwind of fair value adjustments on inventory 9 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 Litigation 13 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding capitalised software 164 141 Tax effects of the above items 110 88 Minority interests share of the above items 4 Share of joint ventures and associates other adjustments, net of tax and minority interests 90 5 Adjusted earnings 2,065 2,147 1 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
Dividends 2009 2008 US$m US$m Equity 2008 Final dividend paid: 42.0 US cents 2007: 36.0 US cents per ordinary share 640 537 2009 Interim dividend paid: 16.0 US cents 2008: 16.0 US cents per ordinary share 237 232 877 769 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 42.0 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2009, which will absorb an estimated US$631 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 28 August 2009 to shareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg Registers on 21 August 2009.
The total dividend per share for the year is 58.0 US cents 2008: 58.0 US cents.
Safari Ltd waived its rights to interim dividends of US$12 million 2008: US$12 million, and to the final dividend in respect of 2008 of US$32 million 2007: US$28 million.
On 26 February 2009, these non-voting convertible shares held by Safari Ltd were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
The treasury shares are not entitled to dividends.
The employee benefit trusts EBT which hold shares for the various executive share incentive schemes have waived their rights to dividends.
Dividends are paid between group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, amongst other things in the case of companies incorporated in Great Britain, the provisions of the companies Articles of Association and the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
There are restrictions over the distribution by a company incorporated in Great Britain of any profits which are not generated from external cash receipts as defined in Technical Release 1 08, issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The final dividend of the company of US$640 million paid on 7 August 2008, relating to the year ended 31 March 2008 and the interim dividend of US$237 million paid on 5 December 2008, relating to the six months ended 30 September 2008, were paid out of profits available for distribution and the final dividend of the company of US$631 million proposed to be paid on 28 August 2009, relating to the year ended 31 March 2009, will be paid out of profits available for distribution as at 31 March 2009.
90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 13,250 Exchange adjustments 1,370 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings 27 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 486 At 31 March 2008 15,133 Exchange adjustments 2,215 Arising on increase in share of subsidiary undertakings see note 29 3 Arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings provisional see note 29 144 Contributed to joint ventures 3,998 At 31 March 2009 9,067 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2007 and 31 March 2008 Exchange adjustments 31 Impairment 364 At 31 March 2009 333 Net book amount At 1 April 2007 13,250 At 31 March 2008 15,133 At 31 March 2009 8,734 As restated see note 28.
2009 Provisional goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings during the year has resulted from the acquisitions of Vladpivo in Russia, Sarmat in Ukraine, Pabod in Nigeria, Voltic in Nigeria and Ghana and SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Limited in Vietnam see note 29.
The fair value exercises in respect of these acquisitions have yet to be completed.
Goodwill arising on the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture is recorded within the investment in joint ventures.
During 2009, goodwill impairments were recorded in respect of the Grolsch business and Sarmat in Ukraine of US$350 million and US$14 million respectively.
2008 Additional goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Grolsch and Browar Belgia Sp.
z. o. o. both of which occurred during the year.
The fair value exercises in respect of these acquisitions are now complete.
Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m CGUs Latin America: Central America 830 830 Colombia 3,387 4,729 Peru 1,482 1,700 Other Latin America 201 206 Europe: Czech 873 1,109 Netherlands 103 502 Italy 428 509 Other Europe 149 149 North America 256 4,254 Africa and Asia: India 354 428 Other Africa and Asia 177 135 South Africa 494 582 8,734 15,133 As restated see note 28.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill continued Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash flows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
Where an impairment is identified using post-tax cash flows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is re-performed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment loss to be recorded.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows: Expected volume growth rate Cash flows are based on financial forecasts approved by management covering five-year periods and are dependent on the expected volume growth rates.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which reflects the returns from United States Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, and an equity risk premium adjusted for specific industry and country risks.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash flows.
Long-term growth rate Cash flows after the first five-year period were extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate the terminal recoverable amount.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations in each of the groups primary segments: Expected volume Post-tax Long-term growth rate discount growth 20102014 rates rates Latin America 4.6%-8.7% 9.7%-17.7% 2.0% Europe 2.0%-12.9% 7.3%-16.2% 1.5%-2.5% North America 7.7% 7.0% 1.5% Africa and Asia 1.8%-18.5% 9.6%-17.4% 3.0%-5.0% South Africa 6.6% 12.9% 2.0% Impairment reviews results As a result of the annual impairment reviews, total impairment losses have been recognised in respect of CGUs as follows: US$m Netherlands 350 Ukraine 42 392 Netherlands The Grolsch business was acquired in February 2008 for total consideration of US$1,201 million.
The impairment loss of US$350 million has arisen principally due to deterioration in forecast trading conditions in both the Netherlands, which has been impacted by excise increases and the recent introduction of a smoking ban, and in export markets.
The impairment loss has been allocated to goodwill.
The recoverable amount was determined based on value in use calculations on a pre-tax basis.
The pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation was 10.2% and the post-tax discount rate used in the previous value in use calculation was 7.1%.
Ukraine A total impairment loss of US$42 million has been recognised in respect of CJSC Sarmat in Ukraine which was acquired in July 2008.
Subsequent to the acquisition, the business has not performed as expected as the Ukrainian economy has suffered a significant downturn from which it is expected to take a significant amount of time to recover.
The pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation was 17.7%.
There has been no previous value in use calculation as the subsidiary was acquired during the year.
The impairment loss has been allocated as follows: US$m Goodwill 14 Intangible assets 14 Property, plant and equipment 14 42 Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, a reasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups CGUs, aside from those where an impairment loss has been recorded during the year.
92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 11.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 3,919 336 18 4,273 Exchange adjustments 642 24 7 673 Additions separately acquired 2 56 2 60 Acquisitions through business combinations 585 37 622 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 13 7 20 Disposals 12 12 At 31 March 2008 5,148 417 71 5,636 Exchange adjustments 1,019 51 2 1,072 Additions separately acquired 28 44 1 73 Acquisitions through business combinations 28 1 29 Contributed to joint ventures 215 149 364 Transfers 7 7 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 13 2 15 Transfers to other assets 13 13 Disposals 9 9 At 31 March 2009 3,961 269 65 4,295 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2007 179 192 1 372 Exchange adjustments 36 12 2 50 Amortisation 138 49 3 190 Disposals 12 12 At 31 March 2008 353 241 6 600 Exchange adjustments 92 25 117 Amortisation 148 40 16 204 Contributed to joint ventures 27 105 132 Impairment 14 14 Disposals 3 3 At 31 March 2009 393 151 22 566 Net book amount At 1 April 2007 3,740 144 17 3,901 At 31 March 2008 4,795 176 65 5,036 At 31 March 2009 3,568 118 43 3,729 As restated see note 28.
During 2009, an impairment charge of US$14 million was made in respect of intangible assets in Ukraine see note 10.
At 31 March 2009, significant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows: Amortisation period 2009 2008 remaining Brand carrying value US$m US$m years Aguila Colombia 1,187 1,715 36 Cristal Peru 596 703 36 Grolsch Netherlands 485 594 39 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$554 million 2008: US$684 million which is not depreciated.
Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Net book amount 28 24 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts in respect of interest capitalised: 2009 2008 US$m US$m At beginning of year 26 18 Exchange adjustments 5 1 Amortised during the year 4 Capitalised during the year 14 7 At end of year 31 26 Borrowing costs of US$14 million 2008: US$7 million were capitalised during the year at an effective rate of 13.47% 2008: 10.95%.
It is anticipated that of the borrowing costs capitalised during the year, potentially US$3 million 2008: US$7 million will be available for tax relief.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$146 million 2008: US$70 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups significant investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34 to the accounts.
US$m At 1 April 2008 Exchange adjustments 10 1 Reclassification from investments in associates 30 Formation of the MillerCoors joint venture 5,804 Investments in joint ventures 235 Share of results retained 225 Share of losses recognised in equity 335 Dividends received 454 At 31 March 2009 5,495 1 As a result of SABMiller entering the MillerCoors joint venture, joint ventures have now become a material item in the groups financial statements.
This has meant that investments in immaterial joint ventures previously classified as investments in associates have now been reclassified as investments in joint ventures.
The initial cost of investment for the MillerCoors joint venture included 58% of the carrying value of net assets of the US and Puerto Rico operations contributed by Miller and 58% of the fair value of the business contributed by Coors Brewing Company.
See note 29 for further information relating to the net assets contributed to the joint venture by Miller.
Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures is shown below: 2009 US$m Revenue 3,708 Expenses 3,483 Profit after tax 225 Non-current assets 5,631 Current assets 625 Current liabilities 639 Non-current liabilities 782 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups significant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34 to the accounts.
US$m At 1 April 2007 1,351 Exchange adjustments 102 Purchase of shares in associates 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 13 Investments in associates 179 Disposals 1 Share of results retained 272 Dividends received 91 At 31 March 2008 1,826 Exchange adjustments 142 Reclassification to investments in joint ventures 30 Investments in associates 4 Repayment of investments by associates 3 Share of results retained 291 Share of gains recognised in equity 5 Dividends received 151 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 13 At 31 March 2009 1,787 2009 The groups interest in Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd in Australia has now been classified as a joint venture, following the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture.
On 20 March 2009, the remaining 50% equity investment in SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Limited Vietnam was purchased and from this date the company has been accounted for as a subsidiary see note 29.
2008 Additional funding totalling US$179 million was provided to China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd during the year.
The associate Grolsch UK Ltd was acquired as part of the Grolsch acquisition.
The analysis of associated undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Listed 121 123 Unlisted 1,666 1,703 1,787 1,826 The market value of listed investments included above is: Distell Group Ltd 318 367 Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and profit or loss on a 100% basis is shown below: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Total assets 8,518 7,922 Total liabilities 2,873 2,538 Revenue 8,370 7,414 Net profit 1,084 1,111 Delta Corporation Limited, a listed associated undertaking of the group which operates in Zimbabwe, is restricted from paying dividends or exporting capital due to foreign currency shortages, and as such the market value of its listed shares is not included above.
Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 15.
Available for sale investments Investments US$m At 1 April 2007 52 Additions 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 Disposals 4 Net gains transferred to equity 2 At 31 March 2008 53 Exchange adjustments 5 Additions 14 Contributed to joint ventures 10 Disposals 4 Net losses transferred to equity 8 At 31 March 2009 40 As restated see note 28.
2009 2008 US$m US$m Analysed as Non-current 29 53 Current 11 40 53 As restated see note 28.
None of the available for sale assets are past due or impaired.
Available for sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 US$m US$m SA rand 6 12 US dollars 12 13 Peruvian nuevo sol 8 17 Other currencies 14 11 40 53 As restated see note 28.
An analysis of available for sale investments between listed and unlisted is shown below: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Listed 19 18 Unlisted 21 35 40 53 As restated see note 28.
The fair values of unlisted investments are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the market interest rate and the risk premium specific to unlisted securities.
The fair value of listed investments have been determined by reference to quoted stock exchanges.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the securities classified as available for sale.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Inventories 2009 2008 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 672 723 Work in progress 135 181 Finished goods and goods for resale 435 458 1,242 1,362 As restated see note 28.
The following amount of inventories are expected to be settled after 12 months: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 34 31 Work in progress 1 Finished goods and goods for resale 6 7 41 38 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2008: US$4 million.
There was no impairment charge recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2008: US$nil.
Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,177 1,541 Less: provision for impairment 121 148 Trade receivables net 1,056 1,393 Other receivables 499 589 Less: provision for impairment 10 42 Other receivables net 489 547 Amounts owed by associates trade 27 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 2 Prepayments and accrued income 127 159 Total trade and other receivables 1,701 2,102 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,053 1,391 Other receivables net 386 315 Amounts owed by associates trade 27 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 2 Prepayments and accrued income 108 156 1,576 1,865 Non-current Trade receivables net 3 2 Other receivables net 103 232 Prepayments and accrued income 19 3 125 237 As restated see note 28.
The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17.
Trade and other receivables continued At 31 March 2009, trade and other receivables of US$356 million 2008: US$351 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below: Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 674 154 41 26 34 35 Other receivables 163 33 6 11 1 15 Amounts owed by associates trade 27 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 2 Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,014 220 41 24 35 31 Other receivables 283 Amounts owed by associates trade 3 The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$49 million 2008: US$33 million and for past due other receivables of US$16 million 2008: US$nil.
At 31 March 2009, trade receivables of US$213 million 2008: US$176 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2009 was US$121 million 2008: US$148 million and reflects trade receivables from customers who are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against specifically impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$1 million 2008: US$24 million.
At 31 March 2009, other receivables of US$13 million 2008: US$136 million were determined to be specifically impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2009 was US$10 million 2008: US$42 million and reflects loans to customers who are considered to be experiencing difficult economic situations.
The group does not hold collateral as security against specifically impaired other receivables at 31 March 2009.
At 31 March 2008, the group held collateral equal to the carrying value of specifically impaired other receivables.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees, charges over assets and concurrent amounts owing to associates.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 US$m US$m SA rand 217 212 US dollars 212 474 Euro 370 437 Colombian peso 93 153 British pound 93 35 Other currencies 716 791 1,701 2,102 As restated see note 28.
Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows: Trade receivables Other receivables 2009 2008 2009 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 148 107 42 27 Provision for receivables impairment 28 2 3 15 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 26 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 19 Contributed to joint ventures 42 Transfers 9 Exchange adjustments 29 20 1 At 31 March 121 148 10 42 As restated see note 28.
The creation of provisions for impaired receivables has been included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 46 136 Cash at bank and in hand 363 537 409 673 Cash and short-term deposits of US$105 million 2008: US$77 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
During 2008 the group set up notional cash pools.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
This notional pooling arrangement does not meet the set-off rules under IFRS, and as a result, the cash and bank overdraft balances have been reported gross on the balance sheet.
As at 31 March 2009, on a netted pro forma basis, cash and cash equivalents and overdraft balances would have been US$9 million lower, resulting in US$400 million cash and cash equivalents and US$291 million bank overdraft balances 31 March 2008: cash and cash equivalents and overdraft balances would have been US$127 million lower, resulting in US$546 million cash and cash equivalents and US$358 million bank overdraft balances.
Trade and other payables 2009 2008 US$m US$m Trade payables 788 926 Accruals 506 821 Deferred income 37 46 Containers in the hands of customers 353 455 Amounts owed to associates trade 25 20 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 29 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 6 10 Excise duty payable 225 305 VAT and other taxes payable 110 159 Other payables 503 903 Total trade and other payables 2,582 3,645 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 788 926 Accruals 506 821 Deferred income 2 Containers in the hands of customers 353 455 Amounts owed to associates trade 25 20 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 29 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 3 5 Excise duty payable 225 305 VAT and other taxes payable 110 159 Other payables 357 614 2,396 3,307 Non-current Deferred income 37 44 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 3 5 Other payables 146 289 186 338 As restated see note 28.
100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below: 2009 2008 US$m US$m At beginning of year 1,608 1,229 Exchange adjustments 371 208 Acquisitions through business combinations 14 177 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 678 Rate change 3 5 Charged to the income statement 67 9 Deferred tax on items charged credited to equity Financial instruments 31 2 Actuarial gains and losses 94 10 At end of year 1,868 1,608 As restated see note 28.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and post-retirement Investment in Fixed asset benefit Financial MillerCoors Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2008 613 30 1,383 139 122 1,949 Exchange adjustments 137 7 284 26 11 399 Acquisitions through business combinations 14 2 16 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 569 569 Rate change 2 3 5 Transfers from deferred tax assets 32 32 Charged credited to the income statement 31 8 57 52 24 58 Deferred tax on items credited charged to equity: Financial instruments 6 39 33 Actuarial gains and losses 5 99 94 At 31 March 2009 519 10 1,044 55 455 76 2,029 As restated see note 28.
Pensions and post-retirement Fixed asset benefit Provisions Financial Other timing allowances provisions and accruals instruments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2008 222 268 158 2 135 341 Exchange adjustments 4 15 9 28 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 2 Formation of MillerCoors joint venture 240 266 106 23 109 Rate change 2 2 Transfers to deferred tax liabilities 32 32 Credited charged to the income statement 1 4 14 9 Deferred tax on items credited to equity: Financial instruments 2 2 At 31 March 2009 15 2 41 103 161 As restated see note 28.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences in Europe, Africa and Asia and Latin America.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of profits in the foreseeable future is more likely than not to be sufficient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,044 million 2008: US$1,876 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$126 million 2008: US$160 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred taxation continued 2009 2008 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 65 62 Tax credits 64 57 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 9 8 Share-based payments 11 5 Cash flow hedges 3 152 132 These deferred tax assets will not expire, with the exception of US$33 million tax credits which will expire if conditions for utilisation are not met.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
A deferred tax liability of US$16 million 2008: US$35 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$29 million 2008: US$31 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted profits of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
No deferred tax has been recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary undertakings where either the overseas profits will not be distributed in the forseeable future, or where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries, it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
Temporary differences on which deferred tax has not been recognised are estimated at US$5,100 million 2008: US$4,600 million.
Borrowings Current 2009 2008 US$m US$m Secured Overdrafts 76 Other secured loans 18 66 94 66 Unsecured 1 US$300 million LIBOR 0.3% Notes due 2009 301 COP 40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 16 2 US$600 million 4.25% Notes due 2008 603 3, 4 Commercial paper 773 380 Other unsecured loans 736 524 Overdrafts 224 485 Obligations under finance leases 4 4 2,054 1,996 Total current borrowings 2,148 2,062 The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
1 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million LIBOR plus 0.3% Notes due July 2009 guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company, Miller Products Company, Miller Breweries West Limited Partnership, Miller Breweries East Inc. MBC1 LLC, MBC2 LLC together the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV.
Since 1 July 2008, the notes are not guaranteed.
The notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$600 million, 4.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2008.
These notes were assumed by SABMiller plc on 30 June 2008 and subsequently repaid on 15 August 2008.
3 In October 2006, SABMiller plc entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme for general corporate purposes.
Debt issued under the programme was guaranteed by the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
Since 1 July 2008 debt issued under the programme is not guaranteed.
The programme benefits from a US$1,000 million 364 day back-stop facility that matures in October 2009, with a one year term-out option.
4 On 17 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd and SABFIN Pty Ltd established a ZAR 4,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme under which commercial paper may be issued.
On 24 December 2008 the programme was increased to ZAR 6,000 million.
Debt issued under the programme is guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21.
Borrowings continued Non-current 2009 2008 US$m US$m Secured Secured loans 20 Unsecured 1 US$1,100 million 5.5% Notes 2013 1,152 1,115 2 US$300 million 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2033 396 327 US$300 million LIBOR 0.3% Notes due 2009 304 3 US$600 million 6.2% Notes due 2011 608 608 3 US$850 million 6.5% Notes due 2016 966 929 4 US$550 million 5.7% Notes due 2014 598 4 US$700 million 6.5% Notes due 2018 778 COP 640 billion IPC 7.3% Ordinary Bonds due 2014 333 394 COP 561.8 billion IPC 6.52% Ordinary Bonds due 2015 263 316 COP 370 billion IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 183 220 COP 338.5 billion IPC 7.5% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 172 206 COP 40 billion DTF 3.0% Ordinary Bonds due 2009 22 5 ZAR 1,600 million 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due 2012 167 200 6 US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 735 2,069 7 US$600 million multi-currency revolving credit facility 600 8 Botswana pula 60 million 11.35% fixed rate bond due 2011 8 9 Other unsecured loans 485 868 Obligations under finance leases 6 9 7,450 7,596 Total non-current borrowings 7,470 7,596 Total current and non-current borrowings 9,618 9,658 Analysed as: Borrowings 9,308 9,160 Obligations under finance leases 10 13 Overdrafts 300 485 9,618 9,658 The fair value of non-current borrowings is US$8,034 million 2008: US$7,559 million.
The fair values are based on cash flows discounted using prevailing interest rates.
1 On 7 August 2003, Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due August 2013, guaranteed by SABMiller plc and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
Since 1 July 2008 the notes are not guaranteed and SABMiller plc became the sole obligor of the notes.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
In addition, the notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
2 On 7 August 2003, SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due August 2033, guaranteed by Miller Brewing Company and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
From 1 July 2008, MillerCoors LLC is the sole guarantor.
3 On 28 June 2006, SABMiller plc issued US$600 million, 6.2% Notes due July 2011 and US$850 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2016, guaranteed by the US Guarantors and SABMiller Finance BV until 30 June 2008.
4 On 17 July 2008, SABMiller plc issued US$550 million, 5.7% Notes due January 2014 and US$700 million, 6.5% Notes due August 2018.
5 On 19 July 2007, SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued ZAR 1,600 million, 9.935% Guaranteed Notes due 2012, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
The notes were issued under the ZAR 4,000 million increased to ZAR 6,000 million on 24 December 2008 Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17 July 2007.
The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at the option of the issuer upon occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption.
6 On 15 December 2005, the group entered into a US$2,000 million multi-currency revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in December 2012.
7 On 30 May 2008, the group entered into a US$600 million revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes.
The facility matures in May 2011.
8 On 28 July 2004, a 60 million Botswana pula 11.35% unsecured private bond placing was placed in the Botswana debt capital market.
This bond matures on 31 March 2011.
The bond is redeemable at any time at the option of the issuer, at a market value, in whole or in part.
The bond is not guaranteed.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued Undrawn borrowing facilities The group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 716 980 Between one and two years 72 157 Between two and five years 1,272 53 In five years or more 33 32 2,093 1,222 The facilities expiring within one year are annual facilities subject to review at various dates during the 2010 financial year.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Within one year 4 5 Between one and five years 5 9 In five years or more 2 11 14 Future finance charges on finance leases 1 1 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10 13 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities, at 31 March was as follows: Net derivative Net derivative financial financial 1 1 Borrowings Finance assets 2009 Borrowings Finance liabilities 2008 and overdrafts leases note 23 Total and overdrafts leases note 23 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 115 4 18 101 374 2 4 380 Between two and five years 4,460 2 138 4,324 3,734 7 191 3,932 In five years or more 2,889 339 2,550 3,479 120 3,359 7,464 6 495 6,975 7,587 9 75 7,671 1 Net borrowings-related derivative financial instruments only.
104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the Chief Financial Officer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Amongst other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
The board also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including confirmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group.
In relation to brewing materials, these activities are co-ordinated by a global sourcing council.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, the group also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$2,517 million of US dollar borrowings has been swapped into currencies that match the currency of the underlying operations of the group, primarily South African rand, but also Colombian peso, Peruvian nuevo sol, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Russian rouble and Euro.
Of these financial derivatives, US$1,381 million are accounted for as net investment hedges.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of profits earned in foreign currency subsidiaries and associates.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18 months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
Other European Other African US dollars SA rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 63 32 81 88 14 26 304 1 Derivative financial instruments 148 322 1,326 324 10 2,130 Cash and cash equivalents 32 68 8 4 2 114 Intragroup assets 279 1 1,976 532 107 2,895 Available for sale investments 1 1 At 31 March 2009 523 355 3,451 952 18 145 5,444 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 61 7 502 110 2 21 703 20% decrease in functional currency 91 11 754 164 3 32 1,055 Potential impact on equity gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 1 54 60 30 145 20% decrease in functional currency 2829046 220 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 148 27 147 5 1 3 331 1 Derivative financial instruments 705 133 210 384 199 1,631 Borrowings 315 614 138 1 116 1,184 Intragroup liabilities 92 1 79 101 1 4 278 At 31 March 2009 1,260 161 1,050 628 3 322 3,424 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 153 6 287 41 20 507 20% decrease in functional currency 229 10 431 60 30 760 Potential impact on equity gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 3 26 64 33 126 20% decrease in functional currency 5 38 96 50 189 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Other European Other African US dollars SA rand Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 47 10 44 21 20 38 180 1 Derivative financial instruments 597 25 366 101 1,089 Cash and cash equivalents 56 6 14 81 4 14 175 Available for sale investments 1 1 At 31 March 2008 701 41 424 203 24 52 1,445 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 10% increase in functional currency 98 4 21 18 1 3 145 10% decrease in functional currency 80 5 26 22 2 4 139 Potential impact on equity gain loss 10% increase in functional currency 17 17 10% decrease in functional currency 21 21 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 271 28 110 108 18 535 1 Derivative financial instruments 160 615 385 849 228 2,237 Borrowings 264 1 168 178 1 612 At 31 March 2008 695 644 663 1,135 247 3,384 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 10% increase in functional currency 72 2 28 25 1 128 10% decrease in functional currency 59 2 35 31 1 128 Potential impact on equity gain loss 10% increase in functional currency 55 32 77 21 185 10% decrease in functional currency 68 40 95 25 228 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and being of a monetary nature.
The group holds foreign currency cash flow hedges totalling US$357 million at 31 March 2009 2008: US$223 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash flow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to the income statement.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$1,545 million at 31 March 2009 2008: US$2,079 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
Over recent months, foreign exchange rates have increased in volatility.
As a result the 2009 table assumes a 20% increase decrease of the functional currency against the foreign currency using the asymmetric method where a 20% increase on the currency is calculated using a ratio of 1.2 whereas a 20% decrease of the currency is calculated using a ratio of 0.8.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The 2008 analysis assumed a 10% increase decrease of the functional currency against the foreign currency.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued ii Interest rate risk As at 31 March 2009, 29% 2008: 30% of consolidated gross borrowings were in fixed rates taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to borrow direct or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting the fact that floating rates are generally lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in fixed rates for a minimum duration of 12 months and the extent to which group borrowings may be in floating rates is restricted to the lower of 75% of consolidated net borrowings and that amount of net borrowings in floating rates that with a 1% increase in interest rates would increase finance costs by an amount equal to but not more than 1.20% of EBITDA including dividends from the MillerCoors joint venture.
The policy also excludes borrowings arising from recent acquisitions and any inflation linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31 March 2009, on a policy adjusted basis, excluding borrowings from recent acquisitions and any inflation linked debt, 35% 2008: 50% of consolidated net borrowings were in fixed rates.
The impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on borrowings in floating rates would be equivalent to 1.08% 2008: 0.65% of EBITDA including MillerCoors joint venture dividends but excluding exceptional items.
At 31 March 2009 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Net debt 5,905 504 707 282 1,262 549 9,209 Less fixed rate debt 4,506 164 60 120 4,850 Variable rate debt 1,399 340 707 222 1,262 429 4,359 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 169 200 940 663 400 2,034 Net variable rate debt exposure 1,230 540 1,647 885 1,662 429 6,393 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 17 6 17 10 20 4 74 100 bps change Potential impact on equity 4 5 9 At 31 March 2008 the cash flow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were: Other European Colombian US dollars SA rand Euro currencies peso Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Net debt 4,418 268 1,841 526 1,773 159 8,985 Less fixed rate debt 3,583 200 89 22 3,894 Variable rate debt 835 68 1,841 437 1,773 137 5,091 Adjust for: Financial derivatives 19 200 184 546 400 981 Net variable rate debt exposure 854 268 1,657 983 2,173 137 6,072 100 bps change Potential impact on earnings 19 1 19 4 19 2 64 100 bps change Potential impact on equity 1 1 2 1 Excluding net borrowings-related derivative instruments.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with fixed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$2,225 million as at 31 March 2009 2008: US$1,100 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying fixed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements net off almost completely in the income statement in the same period.
108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 bps in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased equity and the income statement by the amounts shown on page 108.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2008.
Interest rate profiles of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings excluding net borrowing-related derivatives exposed to either fixed interest rates or floating interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2009 2008 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Repricing due: Within one year 4,836 2,184 7,020 6,464 1,286 7,750 Between one and two years 104 50 54 104 104 Between two and five years 2,538 759 1,779 823 400 423 In five years or more 2,140 1,375 765 2,371 990 1,381 Total interest bearing 9,618 9,618 9,658 9,658 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 4,850 2,034 2,816 3,894 981 2,913 Floating rate interest 4,768 2,034 6,802 5,764 981 6,745 Total interest bearing 9,618 9,618 9,658 9,658 iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of finished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
These price risks are managed principally through multi year fixed price contracts with suppliers internationally.
At 31 March 2009 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$55 million 2008: US$48 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classified on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$3 million is applied, unless specific approval is obtained from either the Chief Financial Officer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permits net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
Trade and other receivables There is no significant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate amount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$2,515 million 2008: US$2,752 million which is the total of the groups financial assets.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group finances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
The group has the following core lines of credit that are available for general corporate purposes and which are maintained by SABMiller plc: US$2,000 million committed syndicated facility maturing in December 2012.
US$1,000 million committed syndicated facility maturing in October 2009, including the right of the company to term out any amounts drawn for a maximum period of one year from the date of maturity of the facility.
US$600 million committed syndicated facility maturing in May 2011.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
As at 31 March 2009, borrowing capacity under committed bank facilities amounted to US$2,093 million.
The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Borrowings 2,613 573 5,182 3,271 Derivative financial instruments 113 97 16 1 Trade and other payables 2,062 137 10 At 31 March 2008 Borrowings 2,647 1,382 3,993 4,264 Derivative financial instruments 114 255 178 1 Trade and other payables 2,841 274 20 The table below analyses the groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 283 13 Inflow 326 15 Cross currency swaps Outflow 261 469 765 555 Inflow 256 491 903 664 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2008 Forward foreign exchange contracts Outflow 155 Inflow 176 Cross currency swaps Outflow 36 34 245 229 Inflow 18 16 243 238 Interest rate swaps Outflow 10 10 43 8 Inflow 17 17 50 8 Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 27b and shareholders equity see note 26.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash flow metrics including net debt to EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
The group is currently rated Baa1 by Moodys Investors Service and BBB by Standard & Poors Ratings Services, both with a stable outlook.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 2 1 Forward foreign currency contracts 11 10 25 7 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 1 15 17 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 42 4 4 9 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 2 Cross currency swaps 1 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 15 54 35 45 34 Non-current derivative financial instruments 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 379 120 Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 22 1 8 Forward foreign currency contracts 1 2 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as net investment hedges 5 5 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 3 1 Cross currency swaps 162 25 190 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 146 54 82 298 Commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges 3 695 107 208 497 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay floating and receive fixed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its fixed rate borrowings.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$2,225 million 2008: US$1,100 million.
The fixed interest rates received vary from 5.5% to 6.625% 2008: 5.5% to 6.625% and floating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 198.8 bps 2008: LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 131.75 bps on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2009, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$2,576 million 2008: US$1,215 million.
ii Cash flow hedges The group has entered into interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$493 million equivalent 2008: US$519 million.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps was a liability of US$24 million 2008: asset of US$2 million.
The fixed interest rates paid vary from 3.4% to 5.4% 2008: 4.1% to 5.4% and the floating rates received are LIBOR plus zero bps 2008: LIBOR plus zero bps.
As at 31 March 2009, the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$493 million 2008: US$519 million.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amounts of these contracts were 149 million 2008: 141 million and US$142 million 2008: US$nil.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts and commodity contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amount of forward contracts and option contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$5 million 2008: US$32 million, the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of aluminium was US$50 million 2008: US$nil and the notional amount of futures contracts for the purchase price of natural gas and corn was US$nil 2008: US$16 million.
The following table indicates the period in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement: Carrying Expected Less than Between Between More than amount cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 22 23 11 5 6 1 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 45 45 42 3 Liabilities 4 4 4 Commodity contracts: Liabilities 15 15 15 4 3 12 2 6 1 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, the Czech Republic, Poland, Italy, Peru and Colombia to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Net gains relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps of US$337 million 2008: losses of US$226 million have been recognised in equity.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2009 2008 m m Forward foreign currency contracts SA rand ZAR 1,575 2,211 Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 294 624 Cross currency swaps SA rand ZAR 2,799 2,799 Polish zloty PLN 636 798 Czech koruna CZK 7,888 7,888 Euro 246 246 Colombian peso COP 272,220 Standalone derivative financial instruments i Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amounts of these contracts were: 54 million, US$128 million and PLN7 million 2008: CZK24 million, 111 million, US$195 million and ZAR204 million.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amounts of these contracts were US$219 million, 137 million, PLN70 million, CZK120 million, Romanian lei RON RON35 million and Hungarian forint HUF HUF5,000 million 2008: US$149 million and Russian rouble RUB RUB2,270 million.
ii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amounts of these contracts were RUB2,900 million.
The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over a portion of its US dollar debt.
As at 31 March 2009, the notional amount of these contracts was US$300 million 2008: US$400 million.
Cash deposits of US$nil 2008: US$3 million are pledged as security for the cross currency swaps.
The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage the fluctuation of the exchange rates over a portion of its Euro debt.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash flows with gains and losses taken to the income statement to offset gains and losses on the hedged Euro debt.
At 31 March 2009, the notional amount of these contracts was 571 million 2008: nil.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value gain loss on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2009 2008 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives 1 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 246 106 Forward foreign currency contracts 16 23 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 3 Cross currency swaps 265 18 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 22 45 Gain on early termination of financial derivatives 20 522 157 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as fair value hedges 236 103 Total fair value gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 286 54 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings and derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings are recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on all other derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating profit.
Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Fair value Financial Not through liabilities held categorised income Loans and Available at amortised as a financial statement receivables for sale cost instrument Total Non-current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Assets Available for sale investments 40 40 29 11 Derivative financial instruments 749 749 695 54 Trade and other receivables 1,317 384 1,701 125 1,576 Cash and cash equivalents 409 409 409 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 142 142 107 35 Borrowings 9,618 9,618 7,470 2,148 Trade and other payables 2,210 372 2,582 186 2,396 At 31 March 2008 Assets Available for sale investments 53 53 53 Derivative financial instruments 253 253 208 45 Trade and other receivables 1,773 329 2,102 237 1,865 Cash and cash equivalents 673 673 673 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 531 531 497 34 Borrowings 9,658 9,658 7,596 2,062 Trade and other payables 3,138 507 3,645 338 3,307 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24.
Provisions Litigation and Postdemerged retirement TaxationOnerous entities benefits Insurance related contracts Restructuring Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 44 999 34 286 10 5 61 1,439 Exchange adjustments 3 43 21 1 5 73 Acquisitions through business combinations 36 7 16 7 3 69 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 2 73 54 5 4 2 140 Unused amounts reversed 9 2 11 Utilised in the year 2 96 59 1 3 4 3 168 Actuarial gains recorded in equity 31 31 Reclassifications 3 22 3 22 Transfer from to payables 8 5 1 4 At 31 March 2008 80 1,017 29 326 2 16 45 1,515 Exchange adjustments 11 74 42 1 5 9 142 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 1 4 Contributed to joint ventures 715 29 5 749 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 13 35 14 12 9 24 9 116 Unused amounts reversed 4 1 1 6 Utilised in the year Existing 6 46 14 21 1 4 7 99 Actuarial losses recorded in equity 18 18 Reclassifications 18 1 19 Transfer from payables receivables 3 4 14 15 At 31 March 2009 69 217 276 8 30 72 672 Analysed as: Current 24 224 8 13 30 299 Non-current 45 217 52 17 42 373 69 217 276 8 30 72 672 As restated see note 28.
Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998, the group recognised a provision of US$117 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities in relation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, a further US$1 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$12 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$57 million 2008: US$64 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
While a full provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the dispute and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the dispute.
Post-retirement benefits The provision for post-retirement benefits represents the provision for medical benefits for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance benefits to eligible employees and their dependants in North America and pension provisions for employees in North America, Latin America, South Africa, Europe, Africa and Asia.
Provisions for all post-retirement benefits in North America were contributed to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008.
The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 31.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions continued Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to non-corporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respect of these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are finalised with the respective tax authorities.
Onerous contracts The group has made provision for certain contracts which are deemed to be onerous.
The provisions are expected to be utilised within the year.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within one year.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are payroll related provisions of US$33 million 2008: US$21 million which includes US$9 million 2008: US$9 million within South Africa relating to employee long service awards.
These are expected be utilised on an ongoing basis when the service awards fall due.
Share capital 2009 2008 US$m US$m Group and company Authorised share capital 9,497,419,568 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2008: 9,420,051,230 950 942 804,948,770 convertible participating shares of 10 US cents each 2008: 804,948,770 80 80 Nil non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2008: 77,368,338 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2008: 50,000 1,030 1,030 Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,585,366,969 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2008: 1,505,779,276 159 150 Nil non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents each 2008: 77,368,338 8 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2008: 50,000 159 158 Non-voting Ordinary convertible Deferred shares of shares of shares of Nominal 10 US cents 10 US cents 1 value each each each US$m At 1 April 2007 1,502,187,446 77,368,338 50,000 158 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 3,591,830 At 31 March 2008 1,505,779,276 77,368,338 50,000 158 Issue of shares share purchase, option and award schemes 2,219,355 1 Conversion of the non-voting convertible shares into ordinary shares 77,368,338 77,368,338 At 31 March 2009 1,585,366,969 50,000 159 Changes to authorised share capital On 26 February 2009, 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of 10 US cents were converted into ordinary shares.
There were no changes to the authorised share capital for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Changes to issued share capital During the year, the company issued 2,219,355 2008: 3,591,830 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme, for consideration of US$23 million 2008: US$38 million.
On 26 February 2009, 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by SABMiller plc to be held as treasury shares.
Whilst the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
Following this transaction, no further non-voting convertible shares remain in the issued or authorised share capital of SABMiller plc.
116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in all respects and no action shall be taken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the profits whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned in iv above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an affiliate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria shall be entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
The company shall use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares are admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Securities Exchange South Africa, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed and traded, but no admission to listing or trading shall be sought for the convertible participating shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares.
Non-voting convertible shares At 1 April 2008, Safari, a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc, held 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares of US$0.10 each in the capital of the company.
On 26 February 2009, these non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by the company to be held as treasury shares.
Following this transaction, no further non-voting convertible shares remain in the issued or authorised share capital of the company.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle holders thereof to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various equity-settled share award schemes for certain employees.
No further options are to be granted under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa after 30 September 2008.
118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
No further options are to be granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes Approved Scheme and No 2 Scheme after 30 September 2008.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued c Performance Share Award Scheme As at 31 March 2009 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Performance Share Award Scheme: Earliest date by which 2009 2008 Exercise performance Ordinary Ordinary price condition Date of award shares shares may be met 20 May 2005 308,855 Nil 20.05.2008 28 February 2006 20,000 Nil 28.02.2009 19 May 2006 675,000 810,000 Nil 19.05.2009 13 March 2007 32,000 32,000 Nil 13.03.2010 18 May 2007 1,041,200 1,053,500 Nil 18.05.2010 2 August 2007 37,500 37,500 Nil 02.08.2010 16 November 2007 4,680 4,680 Nil 16.11.2010 16 May 2008 935,300 Nil 16.05.2011 1 August 2008 160,000 Nil 01.08.2011 2,885,680 2,266,535 No further awards are to be made under this scheme after 30 September 2008. d International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme At 31 March 2009 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme: Date by which 2009 2008 Exercise performance Ordinary Ordinary price condition Grant dates period of the performance condition shares shares must be met 20 May 2005 and 11 November 2005 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2008 443,628 Nil 01.04.2008 19 May 2006 and 10 November 2006 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2008 143,880 Nil 01.04.2008 19 May 2006 and 10 November 2006 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009 726,660 845,980 Nil 01.04.2009 18 May 2007, 2 August 2007, 3 October 2007 and 16 November 2007 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2010 1,297,940 1,508,320 Nil 01.04.2010 16 May 2008 and 1 August 2008 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2011 1,417,920 Nil 01.04.2011 3,442,520 2,941,808 No further awards are to be made under this scheme after 30 September 2008. e Executive Share Award Plan 2008 At 31 March 2009 the following conditional awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Executive Share Award Plan 2008: Earliest date by which 2009 2008 Exercise performance Ordinary Ordinary price condition Date of award shares shares may be met 14 November 2008 115,000 Nil 14.11.2011 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
2 SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme Hong Kong and China.
No further share awards are to be granted under the SABMiller plc International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme after 30 September 2008. h Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 At 31 March 2009 the following share awards were outstanding under the SABMiller plc Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008: Exercise period 2009 2008 Exercise Ordinary Ordinary price Earliest Latest Date of grant shares shares date date 14 November 2008 9,100 9.295 14.11.2011 14.11.2018 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued The exercise prices of share awards outstanding at 31 March 2009 ranged from 0 to 13.32 and ZAR43.09 to ZAR185.98.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following table: Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average Number average average Number exercise fair value at of shares exercise fair value at Total of awards price grant date under option price grant date number of UK SA ZAR ZAR awards Outstanding at 1 April 2007 23,105,090 6.38 11,772,323 90.87 34,877,413 Granted 8,223,950 7.84 5.47 3,057,850 174.89 62.8 11,281,800 Lapsed 1,447,075 3.82 686,100 121.62 2,133,175 Exercised or vested 3,180,233 5.77 1,654,224 66.06 4,834,457 Outstanding at 31 March 2008 26,701,732 7.04 12,489,849 113.04 39,191,581 Granted 8,498,400 8.16 6.00 3,706,000 156.55 63.9 12,204,400 Lapsed 3,648,570 6.61 849,350 143.02 4,497,920 Exercised or vested 2,061,601 6.41 1,009,600 61.57 3,071,201 Outstanding at 31 March 2009 29,489,961 7.38 14,336,899 126.14 43,826,860 Share awards exercised or vested The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise or vesting for share options exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average average Number market price Number market price 2009 2009 2008 2008 Share awards designated in GBP Equity-settled 2,061,601 11.52 2,373,427 12.40 Cash-settled 806,806 12.84 2,061,601 11.52 3,180,233 12.52 Share options designated in ZAR Equity-settled 1,009,600 171.99 1,654,224 181.23 Total awards exercised or vested during the year 3,071,201 4,834,457 Share-based payments have been valued using a binomial model approach except for the Performance Share awards and Executive Share Option Plan which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the options after considering their respective volatilities.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model for share awards.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year: 2009 2008 1 Share price South African schemes ZAR 160.55 178.02 All other schemes 12.50 11.95 1 Exercise price South African schemes ZAR 156.55 174.89 All other schemes 8.17 7.84 2 Expected volatility all schemes 25.6% 22.5% Dividend yield all schemes 2.1% 2.1% Annual forfeiture rate South African schemes 5.0% 7.5% All other schemes 3.0% 3.0% Risk-free interest rate South African schemes 9.2% 8.1% All other schemes 4.7% 5.1% 1 The calculation is based on the weighted value of issues made during the year.
2 Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 2002.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity Safari, Total Merger Treasury shareShare Share relief Other and EBT Retained holders Minority Total capital premium reserve reserves shares earnings equity interest equity US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 158 6,137 3,395 466 683 4,933 14,406 595 15,001 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 1,870 1,870 57 1,927 associates 102 102 102 Net investment hedges fair value losses 226 226 226 Cash flow hedges fair value gains 1 1 1 Available for sale investments fair value gains 2 2 2 Deferred tax charge on items taken to equity 8 8 8 Actuarial gains taken to equity 31 31 31 Other movements 5 5 5 Profit for the financial year 2,023 2,023 265 2,288 Dividends paid 769 769 201 970 Issued capital 39 39 39 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 33 33 33 Utilisation of EBT shares 8 8 Payment for buyout of minorities 17 17 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 58 58 58 Change in settlement basis of share incentive plans 54 54 54 At 31 March 2008 158 6,176 3,395 2,215 708 6,309 17,545 699 18,244 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 3,198 3,198 36 3,234 associates and joint ventures 152 152 152 Net investment hedges fair value gains 337 337 337 Cash flow hedges fair value gains 21 21 11 32 Available for sale investments fair value losses 8 8 8 Deferred tax credit on items taken to equity 31 94 125 125 Actuarial losses taken to equity 18 18 18 Other movements 5 5 5 Contributed to joint ventures 11 11 2 13 Profit for the financial year 1,881 1,881 276 2,157 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in equity 108 222 330 330 Dividends paid 877 877 221 1,098 Issued capital 1 22 23 23 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 37 37 37 Utilisation of EBT shares 23 23 Disposal of shares in subsidiaries 14 14 Payment for buyout of minorities 3 3 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 79 79 79 At 31 March 2009 159 6,198 3,395 873 722 7,218 15,375 738 16,113 As restated see note 28.
The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$618 million 2008: US$510 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Merger relief reserve In accordance with section 131 of the Companies Act, 1985, the group recorded the US$3,395 million excess of value attributed to the shares issued as consideration for Miller Brewing Company over the nominal value of those shares as a merger relief reserve in the year ended 31 March 2003.
Safari, Treasury and EBT shares reserve In the financial year ended 31 March 2000, Safari Ltd a special purpose vehicle established and financed by a wholly-owned subsidiary of SABMiller plc acquired 77,368,338 SABMiller plc shares at an initial cost of US$560 million.
In terms of the agreement, a top-up payment of US$58 million was accrued for at 31 March 2001 and paid to the selling shareholders on 3 April 2001.
On 9 July 2002 these shares held by Safari Ltd were converted to non-voting convertible shares.
The employee benefit trusts EBT hold shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various executive share incentive schemes, further details of which are disclosed in the remuneration report.
The shares currently rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares.
At 31 March 2009 the trusts held 5,746,387 shares 2008: 4,644,176 shares which cost US$104 million 2008: US$90 million and had a market value of US$86 million 2008: US$102 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The trusts used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase the shares.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26.
Statement of changes in shareholders equity continued Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows: Foreign Net currency Cash flow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 463 4 7 466 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 1,870 1,870 associates and joint ventures 102 102 Net investment hedges fair value losses 226 226 Cash flow hedges fair value gains 1 1 Available for sale investments fair value gains 2 2 At 31 March 2008 2,435 1 230 9 2,215 Currency translation differences subsidiaries 3,198 3,198 associates and joint ventures 152 152 Net investment hedges fair value gains 337 337 Cash flow hedges fair value gains 21 21 Available for sale investments fair value losses 8 8 Deferred tax credit on items taken to equity 31 31 Share of associates and joint ventures losses recognised in equity 108 108 Contributed to joint ventures 11 11 At 31 March 2009 915 66 107 1 873 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operations 2009 2008 US$m US$m Profit for the year 2,157 2,288 Taxation 801 976 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 516 272 Interest receivable and similar income 595 265 Interest payable and similar charges 1,301 721 Operating profit 3,148 3,448 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 626 633 Containers 203 215 Container breakages and shrinkage 13 27 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 12 Amortisation of intangible assets 204 190 Impairment of goodwill 364 Impairment of intangible assets 14 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 16 5 Unrealised net loss gain from fair value hedges 14 26 Profit on disposal of businesses 526 17 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Charge with respect to share options 79 58 Other non-cash movements 2 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 4,164 4,518 Increase in inventories 249 337 Increase in receivables 314 160 Increase in payables 66 282 Decrease in provisions 7 5 Increase decrease in post-retirement benefit provisions 11 22 Net cash generated from operations 3,671 4,276 Cash generated from operations includes cash outflows relating to exceptional costs of US$49 million in respect of integration and restructuring costs relating to North America, Latin America and Europe 2008: US$19 million in respect of integration and restructuring costs in Latin America and Europe.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27b.
Analysis of net debt Cash Borrowings and cash related equivalents derivative excluding financial Finance Total gross overdrafts Overdrafts Borrowings instruments leases borrowings Net debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 481 187 7,029 127 15 7,358 6,877 Exchange adjustments 72 41 388 1 430 502 Cash flow 254 248 1,454 10 7 1,705 1,451 Acquisitions through business combinations 10 9 164 173 163 Other movements 125 62 4 67 67 At 31 March 2008 673 485 9,160 75 13 9,733 9,060 Exchange adjustments 38 64 1,010 2 1,076 1,038 Cash flow 233 120 864 32 1 711 944 Acquisitions through business combinations 11 1 53 54 43 Disposals 4 2 2 2 Other movements 241 530 289 289 At 31 March 2009 409 300 9,308 487 10 9,131 8,722 Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash flow as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 409 673 Overdrafts 300 485 Cash and cash equivalents cash flow 109 188 The groups net debt is denominated in the following currencies: Colombian Other US dollars SA rand Euro peso currencies Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total cash and cash equivalents 168 39 84 13 105 409 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 5,712 543 669 1,301 906 9,131 5,544 504 585 1,288 801 8,722 Cross currency swaps 2,695 400 1,232 400 663 Net debt at 31 March 2009 2,849 904 1,817 1,688 1,464 8,722 Total cash and cash equivalents 196 171 43 34 229 673 Total gross borrowings including overdrafts 4,686 439 1,888 1,807 913 9,733 4,490 268 1,845 1,773 684 9,060 Cross currency swaps 1,731 400 331 400 600 Net debt at 31 March 2008 2,759 668 2,176 2,173 1,284 9,060 27c.
Major non-cash transactions 2009 The contribution of the Miller Brewing Companys US and Puerto Rico operations to the MillerCoors joint venture in exchange for a 58% economic interest in the resulting joint venture was a significant non-cash transaction during the year.
2008 No major non-cash transactions occurred during the year.
126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 28.
Restatement of the balance sheet at 31 March 2008 The initial accounting under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, for the Grolsch and Browar Belgia acquisitions had not been completed as at 31 March 2008.
During the periods ended 12 February 2009 and 8 January 2009, adjustments to provisional fair values in respect of the Grolsch and Browar Belgia acquisitions respectively have been made.
As a result, comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2008 has been presented as if the further adjustments to provisional fair values had been made from the transaction dates of 12 February 2008 and 8 January 2008 respectively.
The impact on the prior period income statement has been reviewed and no material adjustments to the income statement as a result of the adjustments to provisional fair values were required.
The following table reconciles the impact on the balance sheet reported for the year ended 31 March 2008 to the comparative balance sheet presented in these financial statements.
Balance Sheet Adjustments At 31 March At 31 March to provisional 2008 2008 fair values As restated US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 15,600 467 15,133 Intangible assets 4,383 653 5,036 Property, plant and equipment 9,037 76 9,113 Investment in associates 1,826 1,826 Available for sale investments 52 1 53 Derivative financial instruments 208 208 Trade and other receivables 240 3 237 Deferred tax assets 340 1 341 31,686 261 31,947 Current assets Inventories 1,350 12 1,362 Trade and other receivables 1,871 6 1,865 Other current assets 906 2 908 4,127 8 4,135 Total assets 35,813 269 36,082 Liabilities Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 34 34 Borrowings 2,062 2,062 Trade and other payables 3,273 34 3,307 Current tax liabilities 534 6 540 Provisions 300 14 314 6,203 54 6,257 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 497 497 Borrowings 7,596 7,596 Trade and other payables 338 338 Deferred tax liabilities 1,775 174 1,949 Provisions 1,160 41 1,201 11,366 215 11,581 Total liabilities 17,569 269 17,838 Net assets 18,244 18,244 Total equity 18,244 18,244 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions and disposals The following significant business combinations took effect during the year: On 17 June 2008, SABMiller plc completed the acquisition of the Russian brewer LLC Vladpivo and on 4 July 2008 it completed the acquisition of a 99.84% interest in the Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat.
During the year the group acquired an effective 57% interest in a Nigerian brewer Pabod and an effective 80% interest in the Voltic water business in Nigeria and Ghana.
On 19 March 2009, SABMiller plc acquired the 50% interest in the Vietnamese brewing business, SABMiller Vietnam JV Company, which it did not already own.
The investment had previously been equity accounted as an associate.
All business combinations All business combinations have been accounted for using the purchase method.
All assets were recognised at their respective fair values.
The residual over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
The following table represents the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of all business combinations entered into during the year ended 31 March 2009: Carrying value Provisional pre-acquisition fair value US$m US$m Intangible assets 17 29 Property, plant and equipment 175 160 Inventories 43 27 Trade and other receivables 16 13 Current tax assets 4 Cash and cash equivalents 11 11 Borrowings 76 54 Trade and other payables 19 19 Net deferred tax liabilities 4 14 Provisions 4 167 149 Minority interests 12 137 Provisional goodwill 144 Consideration 281 Goodwill represents amongst other things, intangible assets yet to be recognised separately from goodwill, and the value of the assembled workforce.
US$m Consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 269 Investment in associate transferred to investment in subsidiary undertaking 13 Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts acquired 10 Deferred consideration paid relating to prior year acquisitions 11 281 From the date of acquisition to 31 March 2009 the following amounts have been included in the groups income and cash flow statements for the year: US$m Income statement Revenue 54 Operating loss 74 Loss before tax 85 Cash flow statement Cash utilised in operations 29 Net interest paid 5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29.
Acquisitions and disposals continued If the date of the acquisitions made during the year had been 1 April 2008, then the groups revenue, operating profit and profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2009 would have been as follows: US$m Income statement Revenue 18,732 Operating profit 3,133 Profit before tax 2,939 Minority interests The following minority interests were acquired for a total consideration of US$5 million with additional goodwill of US$3 million recognised.
Effective % holding after acquisition of minority Form of Company % acquired interest consideration Country Cervecera Nacional S. A.
0.1 99% Cash Colombia Disposals Disposal of Miller subsidiary into the MillerCoors joint venture On 30 June 2008, SABMiller plc and Molson Coors Brewing Company announced the completion of the transaction to combine the US and Puerto Rico operations of their respective subsidiaries, Miller and Coors, in a joint venture to create MillerCoors, a stronger, brand-led US brewer in the increasingly competitive US marketplace.
MillerCoors began operating as a combined entity on 1 July 2008.
SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
A profit of US$437 million arose on the disposal of the US and Puerto Rico operations of the Miller business into the MillerCoors joint venture.
The profit was calculated as 58% of the fair value of the business contributed to the joint venture by Coors Brewing Company less 42% of the value of net assets contributed to the joint venture by SABMiller plc and transaction costs.
The net assets contributed by SABMiller plc to the MillerCoors joint venture were comprised as follows: US$m Goodwill 3,998 Intangible assets 232 Property, plant and equipment 1,043 Other non-current assets 117 Non-current assets 5,390 Current assets 414 Overdraft 2 Other current liabilities 413 Provisions 15 Current liabilities 430 Other non-current liabilities 4 Provisions 734 Non-current liabilities 738 Net assets contributed to joint venture 4,636 Other disposals during the year On 26 February 2009, the disposal of the Agua Brisa water business in Colombia was completed for cash consideration of US$92 million.
On 26 March 2009, the disposal of the Bolivian soft drinks business was completed for cash consideration of US$27 million.
The net assets disposed of for these disposals were comprised as follows: US$m Non-current assets 22 1 Current assets 13 Current liabilities 4 Non-current liabilities 1 Net assets 30 1 Including cash and cash equivalents of US$4 million SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March 2009 are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 50 40 Later than one year and less than five years 83 101 After five years 46 42 179 183 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 26 29 Later than one year and less than five years 62 74 After five years 8 8 96 111 b.
Other commitments 2009 2008 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 403 667 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 2 22 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 65 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 1,499 685 Share of joint ventures other commitments 606 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2009 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2009 and 2015.
Contracts placed for future expenditure in the prior year primarily related to Millers various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments which, at 31 March 2008, were principally due between 2008 and 2013.
These contracts were transferred to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008 and are now shown as part of share of joint ventures other commitments.
c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2009 2008 US$m US$m i Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans 28 19 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of bank facilities 8 ii Staff loans and pension guarantees 22 iii Jointly held contingent liability 150 Share of associates contingent liabilities 1 Share of joint ventures contingent liabilities 10 iv Litigation 14 11 Other contingent liabilities 2 63 202 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued i Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers.
ii Staff loans and pension guarantees Staff loans and pension guarantees above primarily relate to the present value of Miller pension guarantees.
Miller and Pabst Brewing Company Pabst are responsible for the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
In connection with Pabsts closure of its Milwaukee, Wisconsin brewery and their contract brewing agreement with Miller, Pabst entered into a withdrawal liability settlement agreement, which requires annual payments by Pabst to this pension plan of approximately US$4 million until 2013.
In the event that Pabst is unable to fulfil its pension plan obligation, the plan would have recourse to all the assets of Pabst and its parent company.
If such assets do not satisfy Pabsts remaining pension obligation, Miller would be required to fund the remaining Pabst withdrawal liability until 2013.
This guarantee was transferred into the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008. iii Jointly held contingent liability Bavaria SA is jointly and severally liable with Valorem SA part of Santo Domigo Group SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca SA formerly part of the SDG group but which was sold by SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for US$150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the pensions obligation.
On 30 December 2008, Valorem discharged the obligations via a trust structured with an insurance company that will take responsibility for the pensions of Avianca land personnel.
As a consequence, the promissory note and related Bavaria guarantee are in the process of being cancelled and Bavaria will have to cancel certain pledges over shares in Valorem companies.
iv Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002, to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is difficult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups finances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement benefit costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical benefits, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, the Netherlands and Latin America.
The defined benefit pension plans and medical and other post-retirement benefit plans of the Miller Brewing Company were transferred to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008.
The total pension and post-retirement medical benefit costs recognised in the income statement, and related net liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Defined contribution scheme costs 83 94 Defined benefit pension plan costs 16 26 Post-retirement medical and other benefit costs 19 47 Accruals for defined contribution plans balance sheet 2 5 Provisions for defined benefit pension plans balance sheet 137 396 Provisions for other post-retirement benefits balance sheet 80 621 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The group operates various defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Details of the main defined benefit schemes is provided below: North America pension schemes The Miller Pension Plan is a single qualified defined benefit scheme covering both salaried non-union and union employees while maintaining separate benefit structures across the various employee groups.
Substantially all salaried non-union employees hired prior to 1 January 2005 are covered by the plan which provides benefits for this employee group based on final average pay and years of service.
Benefit accruals for salaried non-union employees ceased as of 31 December 2007.
Benefit accruals for union employees are the subject of collective bargaining and are based on a flat rate per year of service.
In addition, through negotiations, benefit accruals have been frozen for some of the union employee groups covered by the plan.
Miller has two qualified defined contribution schemes that cover salaried non-union and union employees separately.
The plan covering salaried non-union employees provides a basic company contribution equal to 5% of an employees pay along with a one-for-one company matching up to 4% of an employees own contributions.
For the plan covering union employees, the company makes contributions for some of the union groups either through company matching contributions based on employees own contributions or a flat hourly contribution rate.
In addition, substantially all salaried non-union employees are covered by a survivor income benefit plan and a long-term disability plan.
On 30 June 2008, the assets and liabilities of the above plans were contributed to the MillerCoors joint venture and are reflected through the groups ownership interest in that entity.
Miller provides non-qualified unfunded defined benefit and defined contribution plans for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified plans are limited by regulation.
On 30 June 2008, these plans were also contributed to the MillerCoors joint venture.
The most recent actuarial valuation of Millers post-retirement plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 30 June 2008 using the projected unit credit method.
Certain of Millers hourly employees participate in the Milwaukee Brewery Workers Pension Plan.
As part of a withdrawal settlement, Pabst, which had participated in the plan prior to 1997, agreed to make annual contributions of approximately US$4 million to this plan until 2013.
The plans funded status net of the present value of Pabsts withdrawal payments at 30 June 2008 is set out below.
The liability for this plan was contributed to the MillerCoors joint venture on 30 June 2008.
US$m Market value of assets 40 Present value of accrued obligations, net of Pabst withdrawal liabilities 79 Deficit 39 South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below: The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the defined benefit type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The surplus apportionment schemes for the ABI Pension Fund, the Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund have been approved by the Financial Services Board.
The active and pensioner liabilities in respect of the ABI Pension Fund and the Suncrush Retirement Fund have been settled.
The only liabilities are in respect of the surplus apportionment scheme.
Once the surplus liabilities have been settled, the Funds will be deregistered and liquidated.
The Trustees have resolved that any surplus remaining in the Suncrush Retirement Fund should be transferred to the Suncrush Pension Fund, although this has not been approved.
Therefore the asset recognised has been set equal to the funded status.
Latin America pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below: The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded scheme of the defined benefit type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is financed entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally qualified actuaries at 31 December 2008 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by the Social Security provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparation of the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension plan, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension fund was carried out at 31 March 2009 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation are listed below.
Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Miller Africa Other %%%%%%%% At 31 March 2009 Discount rate 10.7 5.8 5.4 9.0 10.7 Salary inflation 5.2 2.5 3.5 Pension inflation 5.2 2.5 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 7.5 5.2 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 63 55 Females 50 65 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 20 19 16 20 Females 25 21 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 16 Females 22 20 At 31 March 2008 Discount rate 6.5 10.3 4.8 4.8 6.5 9.0 10.3 Salary inflation 3.5 5.7 2.5 3.0 Pension inflation 4.0 5.7 2.5 3.0 Healthcare cost inflation 9.1 7.3 6.7 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 61 55 65 62 63 55 Females 61 50 65 62 63 50 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 21 20 16 20 16 20 Females 24 25 20 23 20 25 Retiring in 20 years: Males 21 18 20 16 Females 24 20 23 20 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The present value of defined benefit plan and post-employment medical benefit liabilities are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2007 1,151 78 167 32 1,428 537 46 53 636 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 18 167 3 188 537 45 51 633 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,133 78 29 1,240 1 2 3 Benefits paid 57 38 5 100 23 4 27 Contributions paid by plan participants 2 2 Current service cost 25 4 2 2 33 11 2 2 11 Interest costs 67 4 12 2 85 31 4 5 40 Actuarial gains losses 80 5 2 1 78 33 6 39 Settlements 5 26 2 33 4 4 Transfer from to other provisions 26 1 25 3 3 Acquisitions through business combinations 299 299 5 5 Exchange adjustments 6 34 24 6 58 5 9 4 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2008 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 13 200 24 237 519 42 60 621 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 1,088 55 3 325 9 1,480 Benefits paid 15 19 18 10 4 66 7 7 14 Contributions paid by plan participants 1 2 1 1 1 2 Current service cost 3 2 7 3 112114 Past service costs 2 2 Interest costs 17 4 13 14 2 50845 17 Actuarial losses gains 6 8 17 49 1 53 1 1 Settlements and curtailments 6 2 1 5 Transfer to from other provisions 19 2 17 1 1 Contributed to joint venture 1,112 1,112 520 520 Exchange adjustments 8 44 50 5 107 8 16 24 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2009 40 109 241 29 419 38 42 80 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is unfunded 107 21 128 38 42 80 Portion of defined benefit obligation that is partly or wholly funded 40 2 241 8 291 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Miller South Africa Grolsch Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2007 987 125 1,112 Expected return on plan assets 80 8 1 89 Benefits paid 57 57 Contributions paid by employer 23 1 24 Actuarial losses 91 16 107 Settlements 26 26 Acquisitions through business combinations 297 297 Currency translations 9 25 16 Plan assets at 31 March 2008 942 82 324 1,348 Expected return on plan assets 19 5 17 41 Benefits paid 15 19 10 44 Contributions paid by employer 2 7 9 Actuarial losses 31 47 78 Settlements 1 1 Contributed to joint venture 917 917 Currency translations 10 49 59 Plan assets at 31 March 2009 57 242 299 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were: Miller South Africa Latin America Grolsch Other  term term term term rate of rate of rate of rate of rate of Total US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m return US$m At 31 March 2009 Equities 4 12.0 97 7.0 101 Bonds 145 5.0 145 Cash 50 7.0 50 Property and other 3 12.0 3 Total fair value of assets 57 242 299 Present value of scheme liabilities 40 109 241 29 419 Surplus deficit in the scheme 17 109 1 29 120 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 17 17 Pension liability asset recognised 109 1 29 137 At 31 March 2008 Equities 455 9.0 7 12.0 120 7.3 582 Bonds 293 6.1 186 4.8 479 Cash 1 4.8 72 7.0 73 International equities 138 9.0 138 Property and other 55 6.9 3 12.0 18 7.3 76 Total fair value of assets 942 82 324 1,348 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 Deficit surplus in the scheme 159 27 203 1 33 369 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 27 27 Pension liability recognised 159 203 1 33 396 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits South Latin South Miller Africa America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Present value of scheme liabilities 40 109 241 29 419 38 42 80 Fair value of plan assets 57 242 299 17 109 1 29 120 38 42 80 Unrecognised assets due to limit 17 17 Net liability asset recognised on balance sheet 109 1 29 137 38 42 80 At 31 March 2008 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,101 55 203 325 33 1,717 519 42 60 621 Fair value of plan assets 942 82 324 1,348 159 27 203 1 33 369 519 42 60 621 Unrecognised assets due to limit 27 27 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 159 203 1 33 396 519 42 60 621 In respect of South Africa, the pension asset recognised must be limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet been completed.
In addition, the net income statement charge of US$1 million 2008: gain of US$4 million and net actuarial loss taken directly to equity of US$8 million 2008: loss of US$21 million are not recognised in the financial statements.
The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Current service cost 3 2 7 3 11 2 1 1 4 Past service cost 2 2 Interest costs 17 13 14 2 46 8 4 5 17 Expected return on plan assets 19 17 36 Settlements and curtailments 6 2 1 5 1 5 6 4 16 8 5 6 19 At 31 March 2008 Current service cost 25 4 2 2 33 11 2 2 11 Interest costs 67 12 2 81 31 4 5 40 Expected return on plan assets 80 1 81 Settlements and curtailments 5 2 7 4 4 7 16 1 2 26 38 6 3 47 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows: Medical and other Defined benefit pension plans post-retirement benefits Latin South Miller America Grolsch Other Total Miller Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2009 Actual loss on plan assets 11 30 41 Less: expected return on plan assets 19 17 36 Experience losses gains arising on scheme assets 30 47 77 scheme liabilities 11 49 38 9 1 10 Changes in actuarial assumptions 4 17 1 22911 11 Other actuarial losses 2 2 37 17 2 1 17 1 1 At 31 March 2008 Actual loss return on plan assets 10 1 9 Less: expected return on plan assets 80 1 81 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 90 90 scheme liabilities 3 3 1 1 Changes in actuarial assumptions 76 3 1 80 34 6 40 Other actuarial losses 1 1 11 2 1 8 33 6 39 The cumulative amounts recognised in equity are as follows: 2009 2008 US$m US$m Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at beginning of year 142 173 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 18 31 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at end of year 160 142 History of actuarial gains and losses 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Experience losses gains of plan assets 77 90 28 31 15 Percentage of plan assets 26% 7% 3% 3% 2% Experience gains losses of scheme liabilities 28 2 62 4 21 Percentage of scheme liabilities 6% 0% 3% 0% 1% Fair value of plan assets 299 1,348 1,112 1,038 959 Present value of scheme liabilities 499 2,338 2,064 1,939 1,682 Deficit in the schemes 200 990 952 901 723 Unrecognised assets due to limit 17 27 47 73 68 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 217 1,017 999 974 791 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major defined benefit schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2009 are US$23 million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of inflation will have the following effect on the groups post-employment medical benefits: 2009 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs Interest costs Accumulated post-employment medical benefit costs 2 2 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Parties with significant influence over the group: Altria Group, Inc Altria and Santo Domingo Group SDG During the three months ended 30 June 2008, the Miller Brewing Company received various services from Altria, which holds 28.5% of the group, including insurance claims processing, leasehold accommodation and other administrative services, with an aggregate cost of US$nil year ended 31 March 2008: US$0.1 million, of which US$nil 2008: US$nil was outstanding at 31 March 2009.
The Santo Domingo Group SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 15% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc and of its power to appoint members of the board of directors.
In the current year provisions for impairment of US$nil 2008: US$1.3 million were recorded against receivables owing from companies controlled by the SDG.
During the year, the group made a donation of US$69 million to the Fundacion Mario Santo Domingo based in Colombia 2008: US$8 million.
At 31 March 2009, US$nil 2008: US$nil was owing to the SDG.
Bavaria SA is jointly and severally liable with Valorem SA part of the SDG for the pension obligations of Avianca SA a former part of the SDG which was sold by the SDG in 2004.
The maximum obligation is for US$150 million which corresponds to the initial actuarial value of the obligation.
Associates and joint ventures The MillerCoors joint venture is deemed to be a related party from 1 July 2008.
Transactions with the MillerCoors joint venture include the sale of hops and lager to and the purchase of lager from MillerCoors.
MillerCoors have also entered into a distribution agreement with a group company and carried out contract brewing on behalf of group companies.
Further details relating to transactions with MillerCoors are included within the analysis of transactions with joint ventures below.
2009 2008 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 251 214 2 Purchases from joint ventures 50 3 Sales to associates 44 22 4 Sales to joint ventures 28 5 Dividends received from associates 151 91 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 454 7 Royalties received 1 8 Management fees 2 9 Receipt from sale of distribution rights 14 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd Coca-Cola Canners and purchased inventory from Distell Group Ltd and Associated Food Processors Pty Ltd in South Africa and Metalforma, SA, Industria Nacional fide Plasticos, SA and Envases del Istmo, SA in Panama.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd Tsogo Sun, Madedeni Beer Wholesaler Pty Ltd, Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL and Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors and Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd. 5 The group received dividends from Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel of US$39 million 2008: US$27 million, Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya US$15 million 2008: US$15 million, Coca-Cola Canners US$4 million 2008: US$4 million, Distell Group Ltd US$17 million 2008: US$17 million, Tsogo Sun US$73 million 2008: US$28 million and Grolsch UK Ltd of US$3 million 2008: US$nil.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from MillerCoors.
8 The group paid management fees to MillerCoors.
9 The group sold distribution rights to MillerCoors.
2009 2008 US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates 27 2 Amounts owed by joint ventures 2 3 Amounts owed to associates 25 20 4 Amounts owed to joint ventures 29 1 Amounts owed by Grolsch UK Ltd and Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL.
3 Amounts owed to Coca-Cola Canners Pty Ltd. 4 Amounts owed to MillerCoors.
c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2009, there are 23 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33.
Post balance sheet events On 29 May 2009, SABMiller plc acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority interest in its Polish subsidiary Kompania Piwowarska SA from Kulczyk Holding SA in exchange for 60 million ordinary shares of SABMiller plc.
Based upon SABMillers closing price of 12.49 on 28 May 2009, the implied value of the consideration is US$1,194 million.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows: Effective interest in ordinary share capital Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2009 2008 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Finance BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller Latin America Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% Latin American operations 2 Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Unon SA Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Union fide Cerveceras Peruanas 2 Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 93% 93% 2 Cervecera San Juan SA Peru Brewing Soft drinks 86% 86% 2 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 95% 95% Latin Development Corporation Panama Holding company 99% 99% 2 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 97% 96% Bevco Limited British Virgin Islands Holding company 100% 100% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% European operations SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings Europe Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% S. p. A. Birra Peroni Italy Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% Compania Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Zrt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller RUS LLC Russia Brewing 100% 100% 3 Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 72% 72% Plzensk Prazdroj, as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% CJSC Sarmat Ukraine Brewing 100% SABMiller Netherlands Cooperative WA Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company 100% 100% Miller Brewing Company USA Holding company 100% 100% 4 Miller Brewing West Limited Partnership USA Brewing 100% 4 Miller Brewing East Inc USA Brewing 100% 4 Miller Products Company USA Intellectual Property Marketing 100% 4 MBC1 LLC USA Brewing 100% 4 MBC2 LLC USA Brewing 100% SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Effective interest in ordinary share capital Name Country of incorporation Principal activity 2009 2008 African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller A&A Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 2 Accra Breweries Ltd Ghana Brewing 43% 43% Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 2 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL Angola Soft drinks 28% 28% Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL Angola Soft drinks 37% 37% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% 2 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 60% 60% Pabod Breweries Ltd Nigeria Brewing 57% Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd Sudan Brewing 80% Swaziland Brewers Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 2 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 33% 33% Voltic International Inc. British Virgin Islands Holding company 80% Voltic GH Ltd Ghana Soft drinks 80% Voltic Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Soft drinks 80% 2 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asian operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Asia Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller India Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Skol Breweries Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% 5 SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% 6 SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam Brewing 100% South African operations The South African Breweries Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks Holding company 100% 100% The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% 7 The South African Breweries Maltings Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% 1 Operates and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
2 Listed in country of incorporation.
3 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of SABMiller Europe BV, held 71.9% of Kompania Piwowarska SA at 31 March 2009.
4 With effect from 30 June 2008 these entities were merged into Miller Brewing Company.
5 Previously Fosters India Private Ltd. 6 SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd was a 50% associate in 2008, and as an associate was called SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Ltd. 7 Previously Southern Associated Maltsters Pty Ltd.
The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above only includes those subsidiary undertakings which materially affect the profit or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of those noted above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows: African operations The groups effective interest in its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller Africa BV holds a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africas 10.1% indirect interest 2008: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2008: 16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. Lesotho Brewing Company Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing SABMiller Africa BV holds a 39% interest in Lesotho Brewing with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, and the Commonwealth Development Corporation 10%.
Lesotho Brewing is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day-to-day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL CCBL SABMiller Africa BV is the largest shareholder in CCBL with a 45% holding.
Management control is exercised through a contractual agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly-owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest in ordinary share capital Country of Nature of Principal Name incorporation relationship activity 2009 2008 European operations Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Associate Brewing 50% 50% North American operations 1 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% African operations 2, 3 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 22% 22% 3, 4 Kenya Breweries Ltd Kenya Associate Brewing 12% 12% 5 Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 5 Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries principally located in Africa 20% 20% 5, 6 Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Services Morocco Associate Brewing 40% 40% 5, 7 Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest, Algerien Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 5, 7 Skikda Bottling Company Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 5, 7 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% 5, 7 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 25% Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL Angola Associate Brewing 28% 28% Asian operations 5 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing subsidiaries located in China 49% 49% 5 Pacific Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Joint venture Sales and distribution 50% 50% 8 SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Ltd Vietnam Associate Brewing 50% South African Operations 5 Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Associate Canning of beverages 32% 32% 2, 4 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 29% 29% Hotels and Gaming Tsogo Sun Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Associate Holding company for Hotels and Gaming operations 49% 49% 1 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Under the agreement SABMiller is entitled to a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
3 Interests in these companies are held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 4 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 30 June.
5 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 31 December.
6 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This 25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40% and the other 60% is held by the Castel groups Africa beverage interests.
7 Effective 18 March 2004, SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
8 SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Ltd is a 100% subsidiary in 2009, and is now called SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel group principal subsidiaries are in Africa and China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are in the Peoples Republic of China.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141
