Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the group consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the group consolidated In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have report.
Each of the directors with the exception of Dr Moyo who prepared the group financial statements in accordance with was appointed to the board after the approval of these financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by statements, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms that: the European Union.
The group financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
information of which the groups auditors are unaware: and In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply them audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are consistently: aware of that information.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the current by the European Union: and financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and have continued to prepare the group financial statements on the going concern adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed on assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information The directors confirm that they have complied with the above on the companys website.
Information published on the internet requirements in preparing the financial statements.
is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the group other jurisdictions.
consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report with the exception of Dr Moyo, who was appointed to the board after the approval of these group consolidated financial statements, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and the directors report contained in the Governance section of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
66 Statement of directors responsibilities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
