Shareholders diary Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Annual general meeting July Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September November Preliminary announcement of annual results May Annual financial statements published June Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November December Final May August Unsolicited investment advice warning to shareholders The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and the Financial Services Authority FSA in the United Kingdom have published a joint warning to shareholders: Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk South African shareholders may report such approaches to the Financial Services Board FSB on: Toll Free: 0800 110443 Facsimile: 012 347 0221 E-mail: Info@fsb.
co. za Complete the FSB online complaint form which can be found on their website www.
co. za 158 Shareholders diary SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
