Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the In addition, the Companies Act 1985 requires directors to provide remuneration report and the parent company financial statements in the companys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever accordance with applicable law and regulations.
steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements audit report.
Each of the directors with the exception of Dr Moyo, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to who was appointed to the board after the approval of these financial prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom statements, having made appropriate enquiries, confirms that: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
The financial statements so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and of the company for that year.
each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them aware of that information.
consistently: A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many explained in the financial statements: and countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
142 Statement of directors responsibilities SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
