Definitions Financial definitions Total Shareholder Return TSR Adjusted earnings TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming the amortisation of intangible assets excluding software, integration reinvestment of dividends.
and restructuring costs, the fair value movements in relation to capital Volumes items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied and other items In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group which have been treated as exceptional but not included above or aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and as headline earnings adjustments together with the share of joint its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures ventures and associates adjustments for similar items.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes and minority interests in respect of these items are also adjusted.
although revenue from contract brewing is included within revenue.
Adjusted net finance costs Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
This measure of volumes This comprises net finance costs excluding fair value movements is used in the segmental analyses as it more closely aligns with the in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be consolidated group revenue and EBITA disclosures.
applied and any exceptional finance charges or income.
In the determination and disclosure of aggregated sales volumes, Adjusted profit before tax the group aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures.
Contract groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs brewing volumes are excluded from aggregated volumes although on a similar basis.
revenue from contract brewing is included within revenue.
Aggregated volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
Constant currency Constant currency results have been determined by translating the Non-financial definitions local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at Combined Code the exchange rates for the comparable period in the prior year.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
EBITA This comprises operating profit before exceptional items, amortisation Economy segment of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups share Taking an index where the bulk of the market volume is at a price of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
index of 100, the economy sector would index at around 85.
Normally, all brands in this segment will be local brands.
In the beer EBITA margin % market, the economy segment is usually dominated by local brands.
This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group revenue.
International brewers index The index of International brewers charts the share price progression EBITDA of an index of the companys closest peers in the global brewing This comprises the net cash generated from operations before industry Anheuser-Busch InBev Anheuser-Busch and InBev working capital movements.
included separately, until the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch by InBev EBITDA margin % on 17 November 2008, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, This is calculated by expressing EBITDA excluding cash flows related relative to 1 April 2004.
The index is weighted relative to the market to exceptional items incurred during the year as a percentage of revenue.
capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2004.
Effective tax rate % Mainstream segment The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on Mainstream represents the group of brands that constitute the bulk exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding of the market volume at a price index of 100.
Key to this group is software, including the groups share of associates and joint ventures the leading volume brand in any market.
Mainstream brands tend tax on the same basis as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax.
Group revenue PET This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which from associates and joint ventures.
is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Headline earnings Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting profit for the financial The premium segment comprises both local and international brands.
period attributable to equity holders of the parent for items in They are brands which consumers perceive to offer greater value than accordance with the South African Circular 8 2007 entitled Headline mainstream brands and for which they are willing to pay a premium.
Such items include impairments of non-current assets and Mainstream brands are priced at about a price index of 100 and profits or losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related premium brands index at around 120 and above.
As a result, the tax and minority interests.
This also includes the groups share of premium segment, although small in volume terms, often generates associates and joint ventures adjustments on the same basis.
a disproportionate level of profit, when compared to the mainstream and economy segments.
Interest cover This is the ratio of EBITDA plus dividends received from joint ventures STRATE to adjusted net finance costs.
STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic and is an unlisted company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Net debt Depository Participants CSDP and exists to allow share transactions This comprises gross debt including borrowings, borrowings-related in South Africa to be settled electronically.
derivative financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
Organic information Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and volumes relating to disposals.
156 Definitions SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
