The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 112 Shareholder information Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 2 March 2010 Dividend payments Final payable year ended 30 September 2009 5 March 2010 Interim payable period ending 31 March 2010 June 2010 Results announcements Interim results period ending 31 March 2010 5 May 2010 Final results year ending 30 September 2010 1 December 2010 Shareholder information online The Sage Group plcs registrars are able to notify shareholders by e-mail of the availability of an electronic version of shareholder information.
Whenever new shareholder information becomes available, such as The Sage Group plcs interim and full year results, Equiniti will notify you by e-mail and you will be able to access, read and print documents at your own convenience.
To take advantage of this service for future communications, please go to www.
co. uk and select Shareholder Centre, where full details of the shareholder portfolio service are provided.
When registering for this service, you will need to have your elevencharacter shareholder reference number to hand, which is shown on your dividend tax voucher, share certificate or form of proxy.
Should you change your mind at a later date, you may amend your request to receive electronic communication by entering your shareview portfolio online and amending your preferred method of communication from e-mail to post.
If you wish to continue receiving shareholder information in the current format, there is no need to take any action.
Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA www.
co. uk Tel: 0871 384 2859 from outside the UK: 44 0 121 415 7047 Fax: 0871 384 2100 from outside the UK: 44 0 1903 698403 Information for investors Information for investors is provided on the internet as part of the Groups website which can be found at: www.
com Investor enquiries Enquiries can be directed via our website or by contacting our Investor Relations department: Andrew Griffith Investor Relations Tel: 44 0 191 294 3000 Fax: 44 0 191 294 0002 The Sage Group plc Registered office: North Park Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 9AA Registered in England number 2231246 Financial statements What we do and how we work Our Our products Our Our Our guiding Our strategy business and sectors customers partners principles and goals We are a market-leading, We combine our affinity for Our customers are principally Sage has a powerful In the same way our Our strategy is to provide global company with SMEs with our technological small and medium-sized ecosystem designed to customers rely on the skills the most effective solutions, offices in 24 countries expertise to deliver high businesses, though we also enable customers to get and talent of their employees developed and supported and products and services quality, easy to use, relevant serve larger organisations.
what they want from us, to operate their businesses, locally to meet our customers available in more than 160. and cost-effective solutions when and how they want it.
we rely on our 13,400 people specific market needs.
They remain at the centre of our across a range of sectors.
to do the right thing for our thinking.
We share their passion for Yet we complement our size by We constantly seek innovative ways We encourage innovation to flourish locally, entrepreneurialism and we respect that customers, day in day out.
staying in touch with customers to make ourselves accessible to utilising the most appropriate technology From accounts and payroll through they invest much more than money in through our localised business model.
This can be through to bring real benefits for customers.
to payment processing, customer To help them deliver consistently their business.
We strive to help them Products and services are developed providing software and support direct relationship management CRM Many of our customers are resource wherever they are in the world we manage their businesses more efficiently wherever our customers are and they from Sage or their local business and solutions for specific industries constrained and look to Sage for support live by five principles which guide allowing them to pursue their ambitions.
can talk to someone who speaks partner: working with our developer we anticipate customers needs, and advice, not only to ensure they get the our thinking and decision making.
their language and understands community to provide add-on solutions: offer choice and advice on the best most out of their software and services but their situation.
integrating our software with their fit for each individual business.
also for guidance on key business issues.
accountants system or ensuring our We place great emphasis on providing products can easily be found online, this customer support, which is a key in their local bank or retail store.
7 million Countries with direct operations Customers Third largest provider of business management Business partners Accountants Sage people dedicated to technical support, Support contracts a presence in many more solutions in the world with 8% market share customer service and training Revenue by region Revenue by sector Customer profile Our brands Our principles Our long-term goals Whether it is software which is A UK & Ireland 17% A Accounting 55% These brands, such as ACT!, Ciel!
in France, 1 Be a key leader in all markets easy to use or support that is easy Sage 50 in the UK, Softline Pastel in South Africa, B Mainland Europe 36% B Industry-specic 26% of the world.
to access, simplicity is a key driver Peachtree in the US or Simply in Canada, C North America 40% C HR and payroll10% Enterprise in our business.
are widely recognised and trusted in their local 2 Develop products and services markets.
Above and beyond the strength of our D Rest of World 7% D CRM4% which are the most compelling local brands, Sage is an internationally recognised E Payment processing 5% fit with a customers country brand in its own right.
Design and production Our customers place important, 5,000 Upper employees and industry.
com confidential information in our hands mid-market so it is imperative they fully trust us A A E Board photography D 3 Have the most trusted brands.
D Andy Wilson 500 Lower 4 Have the most satisfied and Print mid-market CTD active customers in our industry.
Whether providing reliable, high B C quality products or giving advice on This Report has been printed on Cocoon Silk which 25 Entry-level 5 Experience superior organic business critical topics, integrity is is 100% recycled and FSC certified.
This report was revenue growth versus our critical to us when building long-term printed by an FSC and ISO 14001 accredited printer customer relationships.
using vegetable oil and soya based inks.
This ensures 80% 6 Be recognised as one of the We think ahead, to anticipate our of our customer base that there is an audited chain of custody from customers needs and are creative most admired employers.
the tree in the well-managed forest through to 17% in how we develop our software and the finished document in the printing factory.
of our customer base services, continually innovating ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an B to improve the customer experience C 3% environmental management system against which of our customer base we deliver.
an organisation can be credited by a third party.
The CO2 emissions from the production and We have to be responsive to distribution of this report have been offset through customer needs and market changes the purchase of carbon credits in the Candelaria and ensure we are agile enough Hydroelectric Project in Guatemala.
The project to adapt our products and services involves the generation of renewable energy to meet these demands.
through the installation of a run-of-river hydropower # plant.
The project is verified and certified to the Gartner, June 2009.
Worldwide Total ERP Software Revenue More on our people | Pages 34 and 35 Market share by Vendor, 2008.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Sage Group plc Introduction to Sage Annual Report and Accounts 2009 What we do Across the world Sage supports our customers mainly small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs in their everyday endeavours.
We provide software, services and support to help them better manage the tasks and processes that are at the core of their business.
How weve performed Sage has performed well in a difficult market.
Our business model has proved strong and agile and we have outperformed many of our competitors.
We quickly adjusted our business to the economic environment and focused on delivering the software and services most needed by our customers to help them through the recession.
Revenue Adjusted pre-tax profit -4% -2% 1,439.3m 307.5m EBITA Total dividend -6% 3% 320.7m 7.43p More analysis of financial highlights and our key performance indicators | Pages 0607 www.
com Business software Longer term opportunities The Sage Group plc Our large, loyal customer base, our focus on delivering and services for the North Park solutions that businesses value, trust and rely on, Newcastle upon Tyne alongside the efficiencies we have driven in our business NE13 9AA worlds entrepreneurs position us well for future growth.
More on supporting customers through the downturn and preparing our business for growth | Pages 0205 Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible assets.
Adjusted pre-tax profit stated prior to amortisation of intangible fixed assets and after neutralisation of foreign exchange movements.
Note: A reconciliation of operating to statutory results is provided on page 14.
