Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 67 Directors Responsibilities 67 Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Review, Directors Report, Remuneration Report and the records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with financial position of the company and enable them to ensure applicable law and regulations.
that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial other irregularities.
statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in of the corporate and financial information included on the accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom IAS Regulation.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash We confirm to the best of our knowledge: flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or income and expenses set out in the International Accounting loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and consolidation taken as a whole: and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by the management report, which is incorporated into the compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Directors are also required to: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description properly select and apply accounting policies: of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its understandable information: behalf by: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial Joanne Roberts position and financial performance: and Secretary make an assessment of the companys ability to continue 25 February 2010 as a going concern.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
