Information for shareholders Electronic communications and the Severn Trent Plc website Severn Trent shareholder helpline At the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM a resolution, amending The companys registrar is Equiniti Limited.
Equinitis main the Articles of Association, was passed allowing the company to responsibilities include: communicate with shareholders either via the Severn Trent Plc maintaining the shareholder register: and website or by post.
The company wrote to shareholders in making dividend payments April 2008 asking that they choose to either: If you have any queries on the following matters you can contact provide an email address, using the personalised reply card, to Equiniti via one of the methods below: receive notifications when shareholder documentation is made available on the website: or transfer of shares: continue to receive shareholder documentation in hard copy by change of name or address: returning the personalised reply card.
lost share certificate: lost or out of date dividend cheques and other dividend queries: If the completed card was not returned then, in accordance with the death of the registered holder of shares: or Companies Act 2006, shareholders were deemed to have agreed to any other query relating to your Severn Trent shareholding receive shareholder documentation via the Severn Trent Plc website.
These shareholders, and those who have positively elected for Telephone: 0871 384 2967 website communication, were sent, immediately prior to the Overseas enquiries: 44 121 415 7044 publication date, a written notification that the 2008 shareholder documents are available to view on the Severn Trent Plc website at Text phone: 0871 384 2255 www.
com By post: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, The new electronic arrangements enable shareholders to access West Sussex, BN99 6DA information immediately as it becomes available.
By using Email: severntrent@equiniti.
com electronic communications the company is also able to both reduce its impact on the environment from reducing the use of paper and Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a the energy required for publication and distribution, and benefit BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
from savings associated with reduced printing and mailing costs.
A range of frequently asked questions is also available at The Severn Trent Plc website also provides company news and www.
co. uk information, together with links to the companys operational businesses websites.
Overseas dividend payments A service has been established to provide shareholders in over The investors section of the website contains up to date information 30 countries with the opportunity to receive Severn Trent dividends for shareholders including: in their local currency.
For a small administration fee, shareholders comprehensive share price information: can have their dividends automatically converted from sterling financial results: and paid into their bank account, normally within five working days a history of dividend payment dates and amounts: and of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact access to current and historical shareholder documents such as 44 121 415 7044. the Annual Report and Accounts.
Buying and selling shares in the UK Shareholders who register to receive shareholder documentation If you wish to buy or sell certificated Severn Trent shares, you will from Severn Trent Plc electronically can: need to use a stockbroker or high street bank which trades on the view the Annual Report and Accounts on the day it is published: London Stock Exchange.
There are also many telephone and online receive an email alert when shareholder documents are available: services available to you.
If you are selling, you will need to present cast their AGM vote electronically: and your share certificate at the time of sale.
Details of low cost dealing manage their shareholding quickly and securely online, through services may be obtained from www.
co. uk for more information and to register for Shareholder security electronic shareholder communications.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, Dividend payments directly into bank accounts offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the company.
More detailed information can be found at Dividends can be paid automatically into your bank or building www.
This service has a number of benefits: there is no chance of the dividend cheque being lost in the post: Unsolicited mail the dividend payment is cleared more quickly as the cash is paid The company is legally obliged to make its share register available directly into the account on the payment date without the need to to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders may receive pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear: and unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail beginning with the 2009 10 financial year, a single consolidated you receive please contact: tax voucher will be issued in February each year in time for your self assessment tax return.
The Mailing Preference Service MPS, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS.
To take advantage of this service or for further details contact Alternatively, register online at www.
uk or call the Equiniti or visit www.
co. uk MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 115 Other information information for shareholders Share price information Useful historical information As well as using the company website to view details of the current Share capital reorganisation August 1997 and historical Severn Trent share price, shareholders can find share On 11 August 1997, the companys share capital was reorganised prices listed in most national newspapers.
Ceefax and Teletext and then consolidated whereby, for every 20 existing ordinary pages also display share prices that are updated regularly shares of 1.00 each, shareholders received 19 new ordinary throughout the trading day.
For a real time buying or selling price, 5 shares of 65 pence each and 20 B shares of 38 pence each.
At the AGM on 1 August 2000, shareholders resolved to cancel the Gifting your shares B shares and, following an application to the Courts, the capital of the company was reduced and the B shares were cancelled with To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a gift, effect from 1 November 2000. please request a gift transfer form from Equiniti.
The completed transfer form together with the relevant share certificate s should Information on the capital gains treatment of both events is be returned to Equiniti to record the change in ownership.
available from the Investor Centre pages at www.
com If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them Demerger of Biffa Plc, Return of Capital by payment of a Special to charity, please ask Equiniti for a ShareGift charity donation Dividend and Consolidation of Severn Trent Plc Shares scheme transfer form.
Information is also available on the ShareGift website at www.
On 9 October 2006 the demerger of Biffa Plc was completed and, 5 for each existing Severn Trent Plc share of 65 pence each held 19 Financial calendar at the Record Time of 6.00pm on Friday 6 October 2006, shareholders in the company received: 17 June 2009 Ex-dividend date for 2008 09 final dividend one Biffa Plc share of ten pence each: and a Special Dividend of 165 pence.
19 June 2009 Record date for 2008 09 final dividend At the same time as the demerger, every three Severn Trent Plc 21 July 2009 AGM, International Convention Centre, 5 shares of 65 pence each were consolidated into two new 19 Birmingham, B1 2EA 17 Severn Trent Plc shares of 97 pence each.
19 31 July 2009 Payment date for proposed 2008 09 final The Special Dividend was paid on 20 October 2006.
At the same dividend time, share certificates for the new Severn Trent Plc shares and the 24 November 2009 Announcement date for 2009 10 interim Biffa Plc shares were sent to shareholders.
SGS-COC-0620 This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint and alcofree environmental print technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from renewable sources and vegetable based inks were used throughout.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
It is printed on Revive 100 Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% post consumer waste which is manufactured to ISO 14001 standard.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Severn Trent Plc Delivering performance through higher standards and continuous improvement Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Severn Trent Plc Registered office: 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU Tel: 0121 722 4000 www.
