Governance Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial accordance with applicable law and regulations.
position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs as and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial from legislation in other jurisdictions.
position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition the financial statements, prepared in accordance with criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually of the company and the undertakings included in the all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by consolidation taken as a whole: and compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors required to: report, includes a fair review of the development and properly select and apply accounting policies: performance of the business and the position of the company present information, including accounting policies, in a manner and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable whole, together with a description of the principal risks and information: and uncertainties that they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Sir John Egan Michael McKeon Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Chairman Finance Director applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
