124 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Electronic communication Dividends Shire will communicate with those shareholders who have elected Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends: or who are deemed to have elected to receive documents electronically directly into their bank account or by publishing documents on its website and will write to shareholders by cheque to inform them of the availability of these documents on Shires website.
Shire preferred option: Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive electronic notification The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends is to of Company communications.
Instead of a letter, an email will be have them paid directly into your bank account.
Those selecting this sent to the shareholders email address with a link to the documents payment method receive a tax voucher with each payment.
To change on Shires website.
To effect this, you must register free of charge how you receive your dividends, either log on to www.
co. uk by following the online instructions.
The advantages of electronic communication are: Income Access Share IAS Arrangements Receiving shareholder information speedily and efficiently Shareholders who elect, or are deemed to have elected, to receive their Reducing the demand on natural resources dividends via the IAS arrangements will receive their dividends from Helping your Company reduce its costs a UK source rather than directly from the Company which is an Irish tax resident company for UK tax purposes.
Shareholders who do not elect to receive documents or notifications electronically will receive paper copies of materials.
Shareholders who hold 25,000 or fewer shares i on the date of admission of the Company to the London Stock Exchange, being Shareholder security May 23, 2008, and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they became received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS arrangements.
who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders who hold more than 25,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Unless shareholders have made an IAS election, or are deemed Make sure you get the name of the person and organization.
to have made an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish Check that they are properly authorized by the FSA before getting source and will be taxed accordingly.
Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 5000 or by ShareGift completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes law alerts form.
it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Donated shares If you deal with an unauthorized firm, you will not be eligible to receive are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
on to a wide range of charities.
Find out more about ShareGift at The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
org or by telephoning ShareGift on 44 0 20 7930 3737. www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml US Shareholders Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses i ADSs will be included in Company mailings.
The Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing three Ordinary Shares, are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found under the symbol SHPGY.
The Company files reports and other on the FSA website www.
uk documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that are available for inspection and copying at the SECs public reference This warning has been issued by the Financial Services Authority and facilities or can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
endorsed by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
ii ADS Depositary Financial calendar JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary for Shire ADSs.
All Second interim dividend payment April 2010 enquiries concerning ADS records, certificates or transfer of Ordinary shares into ADSs should be addressed to: Annual General Meeting April 2010 First quarter results announcement April 2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. P. O.
Box 64504 Second quarter results announcement August 2010 St Paul First interim dividend payment September October 2010 MN 55164-0504 USA Third quarter results announcement October 2010 Annual results announcement February 2011 Second interim dividend payment April 2011 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 125 General enquiries: Toll free in US: Tel 1 800 990 1135 From outside the US: Tel 1 651 453 2128 Email jpmorgan.
com Registered Office 22 Grenville Street St Helier Jersey, JE4 8PX Registered in Jersey No.
99854 Corporate Headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus Dublin 24 Republic of Ireland UK Headquarters Hampshire International Business Park Chineham Basingstoke Hampshire, RG24 8EP United Kingdom Website www.
com Investor relations RoW: Clea Rosenfeld Tel 44 0 1256 894160 Email investorrelations@shire.
com North America: Eric Rojas Tel 1 617 551 9715 Email erojas@shire.
com Registrars All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders should be addressed to Equiniti, clearly stating the registered shareholders name and address.
Equiniti Shire Shareholder Services Equiniti Jersey Limited PO Box 63 1112 Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 8PH Shareholder helpline From overseas: Tel 44 0 121 415 7047 In the UK: Tel 0871 384 2553 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers charges may vary.
