Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 1 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire or the Group is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
The Group has grown through acquisition, completing a series of major mergers or acquisitions that have brought therapeutic, geographic and pipeline capabilities, which are in line with Shires strategy of specialist biopharmaceuticals.
The Group will continue to evaluate companies, products and project opportunities that offer a good strategic fit and enhance shareholder value.
Shires strategic goal is to become the leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Shire focuses its business on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD, human genetic therapies HGT and gastrointestinal GI diseases as well as opportunities in other therapeutic areas to the extent they arise through acquisitions.
Shires in-licensing, merger and acquisition efforts are focused on products in specialist markets with strong intellectual property protection and global rights.
Shire believes that a carefully selected and balanced portfolio of products with strategically aligned and relatively small-scale sales forces will deliver strong results.
2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Income Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company accounts and transactions.
Noncontrolling interests in the equity and earnings or losses of a consolidated subsidiary are reflected in Noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries in the Groups consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statements of operations.
Noncontrolling interest adjusts the Groups consolidated results of operations to present the net income or loss attributable to the Groups exclusive of the earnings or losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States US GAAP and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date to the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible assets, the valuation of equity investments, sales deductions, income taxes and provisions for litigation.
c Revenue recognition The Group recognizes revenue when: there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: delivery of products has occurred or services have been rendered: the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and collectability is reasonably assured.
Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events or future performance.
The Groups principal revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are discussed below: Product sales Revenue for the sale of products is recognized upon shipment to customers or at the time of delivery to the customer depending on the terms of sale.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
The Group monitors and tracks the amount of sales deductions based on historical experience to estimate the reduction to revenues.
Royalty income Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty income recorded based on sales information received from the relevant licensee.
The Group estimates sales amounts and related royalty income based on the historical product information for any period that the information is not available from the relevant licensee.
Licensing revenues Other revenue includes revenues derived from product out-licensing agreements.
These arrangements typically consist of an initial upfront payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone payments dependent on achieving certain clinical and sales milestones.
Initial license fees received in connection with product out-licensing agreements, even where such fees are non-refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments, are deferred and recognized over the period in which the Group has continuing substantive performance obligations.
Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non creditable and contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized as revenues either on achievement of such milestones if the milestones are considered substantive or over the period the Group has continuing substantive performance obligations, if the milestones are not considered substantive.
If milestone payments are creditable against future royalty payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
74 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued d Sales deductions i Rebates Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded, with the amount of the rebate based on the Groups best estimate if any uncertainty exists over the unit rebate amount, and with estimates of future utilization derived from historical trends.
ii Returns The Group estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return, based on historical trends and when applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
iii Coupons The Group uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An accrual is established based on the Groups expectation of the level of coupon redemption, using historical trends.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded or the date the coupon is offered, if later than the date the related sales are recorded.
iv Discounts The Group offers cash discounts to customers for the early payment of receivables.
Those discounts are recorded as reductions to revenue and accounts receivable in the same period that the related sale is recorded.
v Wholesaler chargebacks The Group has contractual agreements whereby it supplies certain products to third-parties at predetermined prices.
Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are reimbursed by the Group if the predetermined prices are less than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Group.
Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
e Collaborative arrangements The Group enters into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative arrangements often require upfront, milestone, royalty or profit share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often contingent upon the success of the related development and commercialization efforts.
Collaboration agreements entered into by Shire may also include expense reimbursements or other such payments to the collaborative partner.
Shire reports costs incurred and revenue generated from transactions with third-parties as well as payments between parties to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net basis, depending on the characteristics of the collaborative relationship.
f Cost of product sales Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those products that are manufactured by the Group, shipping and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible assets in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties payable on products to which the Group does not own the rights are also included in Cost of product sales.
g Leased assets The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are not made on such a basis.
Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the consolidated balance sheet as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease payments are recorded as liabilities, while the interest element is charged to operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on the balance of the capital lease obligation.
h Advertising expense The Group expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
Advertising costs amounted to $81.3 million, $134.5 million and $92.3 million for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively were included within Selling, general and administrative expenses.
i Research and development R&D expense R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Upfront and milestone payments made to third-parties for in-licensed products that have not yet received marketing approval and for which no alternative future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
Milestone payments made to third-parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments The Group evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets other than goodwill and investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether the carrying value is recoverable.
If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, the amount of the impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 75 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued k Finance costs of debt Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred cost and amortized to the consolidated statements of operations over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the related debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are written off and charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
l Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the relevant subsidiaries at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Transaction gains and losses, other than those related to current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, are recognized in arriving at income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in losses earnings of equity-method investees and discontinued operations.
Transaction gains and losses arising on foreign currency denominated current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations.
The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar at the average rates of exchange during the period, with the subsidiaries balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate movements is included in a separate component of Other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency exchange transaction gains and losses included in consolidated net income loss in the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to a $2.3 million gain, $4.6 million gain and $4.4 million gain, respectively.
m Income taxes Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial statements for positions which are considered more likely than not of being sustained based on the technical merits of the position on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgement, is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
The Group recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
n Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is based upon net income loss attributable to Shire plc divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based upon net income loss attributable to Shire plc adjusted for the impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an if-converted basis where dilutive divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the effect of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares that were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the effect would be to increase earnings per share or reduce a loss per share.
o Share-based compensation Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based awards granted to employees.
The Group measures share-based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognizes the cost as an expense on a straightline basis net of estimated forfeitures over the employee requisite service period.
Predominantly all of the Groups awards have service and or performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The share-based compensation expense is recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, and SG&A in the consolidated statements of operations based on the employees respective functions.
The Group records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the Groups income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Groups statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the Groups income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset or in the consolidated statements of operations if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
The Groups share-based employee compensation plans are described more fully in Note 32. p Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.
q Financial  The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with third-party transactions and intercompany financing.
These instruments consist of swap and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting for these instruments and accordingly charges in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance sheet in Current assets liabilities and the cash flows relating to these instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
76 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued r Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate or market value.
Cost incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, first-out basis, including transportation costs.
Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and certain products prior to regulatory approval.
Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the Group considers that it is probable that the US Food and Drug Administration FDA or another regulatory body will grant commercial and manufacturing approval for the relevant product, and it is probable that the value of capitalized inventories will be recovered through commercial sale.
Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those anticipated, inventory adjustments may be required.
s Assets held-for-sale An asset is classified as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, the Group has committed to a plan of disposition, the asset is available for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change significantly.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
Assets acquired in a business combination that will be sold rather than held and used are classified as held-for-sale at the date of acquisition when it is probable that the Group will dispose of the assets within one year.
Newly acquired assets held-for-sale are carried at their fair value less cost to sell at the acquisition date.
The Group does not record depreciation or amortization on assets classified as held-for-sale.
t Investments The Group has certain investments in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Investments are accounted for using the equity-method of accounting if the investment gives the Group the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control over, the investee.
Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Group has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee between 20% and 50%, although other factors such as representation on the investees Board of Directors and the nature of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity-method of accounting is appropriate.
Under the equity-method of accounting, the Group records its investments in equity-method investees in the consolidated balance sheet under Investments and its share of the investees earnings or losses together with other-than-temporary impairments in value under equity in losses earnings of equity-method investees in the consolidated statements of operations.
All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which the Group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the Group classifies its equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income loss, net of any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses and declines in value of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-thantemporary are included in Other income expense, net see Note 29.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Interest and dividends on securities classified as available-for-sale are included as interest income.
u Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for impairment losses, less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the construction period.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 15 to 50 years Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 3 to 10 years The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are available and ready for their intended use.
Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the consolidated statements of operations as incurred.
The costs of major renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss on such disposition is reflected in operating income expense.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 77 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued v Goodwill and other intangible assets i Goodwill In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortized to operations, but instead is reviewed for impairment, at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Events or changes in circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include: significant underperformance of a reporting unit relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the manner of the Groups use of acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry trends.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of each reporting units net assets including allocated goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
If the reporting units carrying amount is greater than its fair value, a second step is performed whereby the portion of the reporting units fair value that relates to the reporting units goodwill is compared to the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill.
The Group recognizes a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the fair value.
The Group has determined that there are no impairment losses in respect of goodwill for any of the reporting periods covered by these consolidated financial statements.
ii Other intangible assets Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property rights for products with a defined revenue stream, and for business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009 also include acquired IPR&D.
Intellectual property rights for currently marketed products are recorded at cost and amortized over the estimated useful life of the related product, which ranges from five to 35 years weighted average 18 years.
IPR&D acquired through a business combination which completed subsequent to January 1, 2009 is capitalized as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts.
Once the research and development efforts are completed the useful life of the relevant assets will be determined, and the IPR&D asset amortized over this useful economic life.
The following factors are considered in estimating the useful lives of Other intangible assets: expected use of the asset: regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and actions by government agencies: the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing products and other economic factors, including the stability of the market, known technological advances, development of competing drugs that are more effective clinically or economically: actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and historical experience of renewing or extending similar arrangements.
When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these factors are considered in combination when determining the appropriate useful life for the relevant asset.
w Non-monetary transactions The Group enters into certain non-monetary transactions that involve either the granting of a license over the Groups patents or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in exchange for a nonmonetary asset, usually equity.
The Group accounts for these transactions at fair value if the Group is able to determine the fair value within reasonable limits.
To the extent the Group concludes that it is unable to determine the fair value of a transaction, that transaction is accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets exchanged.
Management is required to exercise its judgement in determining whether or not the fair value of the asset received or given up can be determined.
x Reclassifications In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 costs of $32.3 million and $31.8 million respectively, predominantly relating to certain Medical affairs costs related to promotional and marketing activities, have been reclassified from Research and development costs to Selling, general and administrative costs to more appropriately reflect the nature of the expenditure incurred.
78 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued y New accounting pronouncements Adopted during the period The Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB Accounting Standards Codification the Codification On July 1, 2009 the FASB established the Codification as the single source of authoritative US GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities.
The Codification is effective prospectively from July 1, 2009 and has superseded all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards.
From July 1, 2009 the FASB has issued new guidance in the form of Accounting Standards Updates Updates.
The Codification did not impact the Groups financial position or results of operations.
Subsequent Events On April 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on subsequent events.
This guidance establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued.
Specifically, this guidance provides: the period after the balance sheet date during which management should evaluate events or transactions that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements: the circumstances under which an entity should recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements: and the disclosures that an entity should make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date.
The guidance is effective prospectively from April 1, 2009.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Groups consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The Group has evaluated subsequent events to the date when the financial statements were issued on February 26, 2010.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities.
This guidance requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative instruments and hedging activities, and these disclosures are included within Note 22.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements.
This guidance establishes new accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary.
Specifically, this guidance requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest formally known as a minority interest as equity in the consolidated financial statements, separate from the parents equity.
In addition, the amount of net income or losses attributable to noncontrolling interests is required to be included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement.
This guidance also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest.
As a consequence of the adoption of this guidance, the balance of noncontrolling interests has been reclassified within equity and net income attributable to Shire plc shareholders has been shown separately from that attributable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The adoption of this guidance has not had an impact on the Groups consolidated cash flows.
Business Combinations On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on business combinations.
The guidance significantly changed the accounting for business combinations.
Under the guidance, an acquiring entity is required to recognize all the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests in a transaction at the acquisition date fair value with limited exceptions.
The guidance also amended the accounting treatment for certain specific items including: the expensing of acquisition costs: the capitalization of in-process research and development: recording of contingent consideration at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value being generally reflected in earnings: and the introduction of a substantial number of new disclosure requirements.
The guidance has been applied to those business combinations completed in the year to December 31, 2009.
Determining whether an Instrument or Embedded Feature is indexed to an Entitys Own Stock On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the Emerging Issues Task Force EITF on determining whether an instrument or embedded feature is indexed to an entitys own stock.
The guidance provides a new method to be applied in determining whether a financial instrument or an embedded feature is indexed to an issuers own stock.
Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the EITF on accounting for collaborative arrangements.
This guidance defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement and between participants in the arrangement and third-parties.
The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
The disclosures required by this guidance have been included in Note 24.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion Including Partial Cash Settlement On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion including partial cash settlement.
This guidance clarified that convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion including partial cash settlement do not fall within the scope of the existing guidance on accounting for convertible debt and debt issued with stock purchase warrants.
It requires issuers of such instruments to separately account for the liability and equity components of those instruments by allocating the proceeds from issuance of the instrument between the liability component and the embedded conversion option i. e. the equity component.
Fair Value Measurements On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance on non-recurring fair value measurements for non financial assets and non financial liabilities.
The guidance has been applied to the fair value measurement of non financial assets and non financial liabilities in the year to December 31, 2009.
Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets On January 1, 2009 the Group adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on the determination of the useful life of intangible assets.
This guidance amended the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset.
The adoption of the guidance did not have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 79 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued To be adopted in future periods Revenue Recognition in Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements In September 2009, the FASB issued an Update to the guidance on revenue recognition in multiple deliverable revenue arrangements.
The Update amends the existing guidance on allocating consideration received between the elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement.
The Update establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable.
The selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor specific objective evidence VSOE if available, third-party evidence if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE or third-party evidence is available.
It replaces the term fair value in the revenue allocation with selling price to clarify that the allocation of revenue is based on entity specific assumptions rather then the assumptions of a market place participant.
The Update will eliminate the residual method of allocation and requires that arrangement consideration be allocated using the relative selling price method.
It will also significantly expand the disclosures related to a vendors multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements.
The Update will be effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this Update.
Amendments to the Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for the Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities In June 2009 the FASB issued a revision to the existing guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities.
This guidance changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting or similar rights should be consolidated.
The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entitys purpose and design and the reporting entitys ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other entitys economic performance.
The guidance will also require a reporting entity to provide additional disclosures about its involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to such involvement.
The guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009.
Early adoption is not permitted.
The Group does not expect there to be an impact of adopting this guidance on the Groups consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets In June 2009 the FASB issued new guidance on the accounting for transfers of financial assets.
This guidance will require more information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where entities have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets.
It eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, changes the requirements for fide-recognizing financial assets, and requires additional disclosures.
z Scheme of Arrangement Shire Limited now known as Shire plc was incorporated under the laws of Jersey Channel Islands on January 28, 2008, is a public company limited by shares, and is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
On May 23, 2008 Shire Limited became the holding company of the former holding company of the Shire Group Old Shire, now called Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Wales and the shareholders of Old Shire the Scheme.
Prior to May 23, 2008 Shire Limited had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
On October 1, 2008 Shire Limited changed its name to Shire plc following the approval of the change of name by shareholders at the Groups Annual General Meeting.
Pursuant to the Scheme, ordinary shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05 of Old Shire Shire Ordinary Shares were exchanged for Ordinary Shares, each having a nominal value of 0.05, of Shire plc Shire plc Ordinary Shares, on a one for one basis.
Shire plc Ordinary Shares carry substantially the same rights as did the Shire Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme did not involve any payment for the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
Immediately after the Scheme became effective, Shire plc had the same Board of Directors, management and corporate governance arrangements as Old Shire had immediately prior thereto.
The consolidated assets and liabilities of Shire plc immediately after the effective time of the Scheme of Arrangement were substantially the same as the consolidated assets and liabilities of Old Shire immediately prior thereto.
The Shire Ordinary Shares underlying the Shire American Depositary Shares the Shire ADSs, each representing three Shire Ordinary Shares, participated in the Scheme like all other Shire Ordinary Shares.
Upon the Scheme becoming effective, the Shire ADSs remained outstanding but became Shire plc ADSs, each representing three Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
The Scheme did not involve any payment for the Shire plc ADSs.
The corporate restructuring has been accounted for as a reorganization of entities under common control.
Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial statements prior to the reorganization are labeled as those of Shire plc, but continue to represent the operations of Old Shire.
Earnings per share were unaffected by the reorganization.
80 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in conformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date to the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
i Valuation of intangible assets a Estimation of amortization and impairment charges At December 31, 2009 the carrying value of intangible assets was $1,790.7 million, which primarily related to the Groups DAYTRANA $116.1 million, EQUASYM $79.5 million, FIRAZYR $276.4 million, PENTASA $61.2 million, REPLAGAL $275.5 million and VYVANSE $933.6 million products.
Intangible assets that have a defined revenue stream namely commercial products are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life.
IPR&D assets, either acquired through business combinations which closed before January 1, 2009 or through asset acquisitions, which do not yet have a defined revenue stream, and for which no alternative future use exists, were expensed upon acquisition as a research and development expense.
IPR&D assets acquired through business combinations which closed subsequent to January 1, 2009 have been capitalized as indefinite lived intangible assets, even if these assets do not have an alternative future use, subject to amortization on completion or impairment on abandonment of the relevant project.
At December 31, 2009 the carrying value of capitalized IPR&D assets was $6.1 million.
Managements estimate of the useful life of its intangible assets considers, inter alia, the following factors: the expected use of the asset by the Group: any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit or extend the useful life, and the effects of demand: competition, including the launch of generic products: and other economic factors such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels.
The Group reviews the useful life of its intangible assets subject to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of the useful life if events or circumstances warrant.
Any future changes to the useful life of the Groups intangible assets could result in additional or lesser amortization expense in future periods which could materially affect operating results.
The Group reviews its indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
Indefinite lived assets are reviewed for impairment through a one-step test, which compares the fair value of the asset with its carrying amount, with an impairment loss recognized to the extent that the carrying value exceeds fair value.
The Group reviews its finite lived intangible assets for impairment, using a two-step approach, whenever events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and ultimate disposition of the intangible asset are less than its carrying value, the intangible asset is considered impaired.
The impairment loss is determined under step two as the amount by which the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value.
Events or circumstances that may suggest that its intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to the Group evaluating its intangible assets for impairment, include the following: changes to a products commercialization strategy: the loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or challenge or circumvention by competitors of the Groups regulatory exclusivity patents: the development and marketing of competitive products, including generic entrants into the marketplace: changes to the product labels, or other regulatory intervention: sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, competitive pricing: the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the Groups products: a significant deterioration in a products operating performance compared to expectations: and adverse changes to the technological or commercial viability of IPR&D assets.
The occurrence of any such events could adversely affect the Groups estimates of the future net cash flows generated by its intangible assets.
Following the identification of such events and the resultant impairment reviews, the Group recognized intangible asset impairment charges of $nil in the year to December 31, 2009 2008: $97.1 million, of which $94.6 million related to DYNEPO which the Group stopped commercializing: 2007: $0.4 million.
Dependent on the occurrence of future events or circumstances, the Groups operating results could be materially and adversely affected by impairment charges related to the recoverability of its long-lived assets.
b Intangible assets acquired through business combinations The fair values of all the identifiable intangible assets for commercialized products acquired through business combinations, primarily the acquisitions of TKT in 2005, New River in 2007 and the acquisition of Jerini in 2008 have been determined using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
This method starts with a forecast of all expected future net cash flows which a market participant could have either generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual property, customer relationships and other intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying a market participant discount rate that reflects the risk factors that a market participant would associate with the cash flows to the extent the underlying cash flows have not similarly been risk adjusted.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 81 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued The forecast of future cash flows requires various assumptions to be made, including: revenue that is reasonably likely to result from the sale of products including the estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration and estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: royalty or license fees saved by owning the intellectual property associated with the products: cost of sales for the products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: general and administrative expenses: research and development expenses: the estimated life of the products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the relevant assets piecemeal.
The valuations are based on information at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecasts of future cash flows, and dependent on the outcome of future events or circumstances impairment charges as outlined at a above may result.
c Valuation of IPR&D acquired through business combinations IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete technologies and development projects that the Group has acquired through business combinations or asset acquisitions, which at the date of the relevant acquisition have not reached technological feasibility or have no alternative future use.
Prior to January 1, 2009, the fair value ascribed to such technologies or development projects was immediately expensed to the consolidated statements of operations in the year of acquisition.
The Group has recorded IPR&D expense on the following significant business combinations that closed prior to January 1, 2009: $128 million on acquisition of a majority voting interest in Jerini in 2008: $1,866 million on acquisition of New River in 2007: and $815 million on acquisition of TKT in 2005.
In 2008 the Group also recorded IPR&D charges of $135 million following the asset acquisition of METAZYM from Zymenex.
Additionally, non-refundable fees paid on the in-licensing of products that have not yet received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use have been expensed and presented within R&D expense.
For business combinations that closed subsequent to January 1, 2009 IPR&D is required to be recorded as an indefinite lived intangible asset.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group has recorded IPR&D assets of $6.1 million, following the acquisition of EQUASYM from UCB.
The Group considers that a technology or development project has an alternative future use if it is probable that the Group will use the asset in its current, incomplete state as it existed at the acquisition date, the asset will be used in another development project that has not yet commenced, and future economic benefit is expected from that use.
The Group has determined that historically all such acquired development projects did not have an alternative future use.
The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets has been based on the present value of probability adjusted incremental cash flows which a market participant would expect to be generated by the IPR&D projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the risks associated with the development project, which include applying an appropriate discount rate commensurate with the projects stage of completion, the nature of the product, the scientific data associated with the technology, the current patent situation and market competition.
The forecast of future cash flows required the following assumptions to be made: revenue that is likely to result from specific IPR&D projects, including the likelihood of approval of the product, estimated number of units to be sold, estimated selling prices, estimated market penetration, estimated market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product life cycles: cost of sales related to the potential products using historical data, industry data or other sources of market data: sales and marketing expense using historical data, industry data or other market data: general and administrative expenses: R&D expenses to complete the development of the acquired products: and the tax amortization benefit available to a market participant purchasing the relevant assets piecemeal.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from ongoing clinical trials, and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
The use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by the Group could result in materially different asset values and IPR&D expense.
However, as the valuation process for IPR&D involves a number of inter-relating assumptions, the Group does not consider it meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the asset values or IPR&D expense to changes in any individual assumption.
The valuation of IPR&D has been based on information that existed at the time of the acquisition and utilized expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions or estimates associated with such IPR&D assets or expenses will occur as projected.
If certain of the IPR&D projects fail during development, are abandoned, or do not receive the relevant regulatory approvals, the Group may not realize the future cash flows that it has estimated nor recover the value of the R&D investment made subsequent to acquisition.
If such circumstances occur, the Groups future operating results could be materially adversely impacted.
82 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued ii Valuation of equity investments At December 31, 2009 the carrying value of the Groups investments in certain public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies amounted to $105.7 million, principally represented by the Groups available-for-sale investment in Vertex.
The carrying values of these investments are periodically reviewed for other-than-temporary impairment whenever certain events or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an investment exceeds the fair market value of the investment.
Indicators of other-than-temporary impairment considered by the Group, include, inter alia: the market value of a quoted investment being below the cost of the investment: adverse news on a companys progress in scientific technology development of compounds: and recent stock issuances at a price below the investment price.
If the fair value appears to be below the investments cost the Group considers all available evidence in assessing whether there is an other-thantemporary impairment.
This evidence would include: the length of time and or the extent to which the market value of the investee is less than the cost of the investment: the level of progress in the investees scientific technology development of compounds: ongoing activity in collaborations with the investee: whether or not other substantial investee-specific adverse events have occurred which may cause a decline in value: analysis and valuation of comparable companies: and the overall financial condition and near term prospects of the investee.
In instances when this review indicates that there is an other-than-temporary impairment of the Groups investment in private companies, the Group impairs the investment to its current fair value.
For the Groups investments in public companies which are accounted for as available-for-sale securities, if these investments are deemed to be  impaired, any unrealized holding loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income by recording an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations.
During 2009, 2008 and 2007 Shire did not record any impairment charges for its non-current investments in private companies.
During the year to December 31, 2009, the Group recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges for its available-for-sale securities of $0.8 million 2008: $58.0 million, 2007: $3.0 million, and at December 31, 2009 the Group has unrealized holding gains on its available-for-sale securities of $15.0 million.
At December 31, 2009 the Group does not have any available-for-sale securities with unrealized holding losses.
Other-than-temporary impairment charges recorded in 2008 included $44.3 million for the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc.
During the third quarter of 2008, the Group considered the following factors in its determination of whether its impairment in Renovo Group plc was temporary or otherthan-temporary: the severity of the decline from historical cost 87% decline and its duration 11 months : market analysts targets of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 18-24 months: and the revised expected filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a sequential rather than parallel Phase 3 development plan.
These factors, together with the significant decline in global equity markets during the third quarter of 2008 meant that the Group was unable to reasonably estimate the period over which a full recovery in the value of its investment in Renovo Group plc could occur.
As such, at the end of the third quarter of 2008 the Group concluded that the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
The determination of the fair value of private company investments and the determination of whether an unrealized holding loss on a publicly quoted investment is other-than-temporary requires significant management judgement.
Any future events or circumstances which could lead to the recognition of otherthan-temporary impairment charges, particularly in respect of the Groups investment in Vertex carrying value at December 31, 2009 $74.4 million, could have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
iii Sales deductions Sales deductions consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid and other government agencies, contractual rebates with health-maintenance organizations HMOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade discounts and distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and allowances for coupon sampling programs.
These deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales with estimates of future utilization derived from historical experience adjusted to reflect known changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
On the balance sheet the Group records wholesaler chargebacks and prompt payment discounts as a reserve against accounts receivable, whereas all other sales deductions are recorded within current liabilities.
The Group has the following significant categories of sales deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgements which the Group considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Group to use information from external sources: Medicaid and Managed Care rebates Statutory rebates to state Medicaid agencies and contractual rebates to Managed Care Organizations MCO under managed care programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than inflation.
As it can take up to six months for information to reach the Group on actual usage of the Groups products in managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total rebates to be reimbursed, the Group maintains reserves for amounts payable under these programs relating to sold products.
The amount of the reserve is based on historical experience of rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and statutory or negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand patterns, projected product returns and the levels of inventory in the distribution channel.
Adjustments are made for known changes in these factors, such as how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid rebate legislation.
Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers: results of independently commissioned retail inventory surveys and third-party prescription data such as IMS Health National Prescription Audit data.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 83 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to state Medicaid and other government program reimbursement practices with retroactive application can result in changes to managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and Managed Care rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and Medicaid agency or MCO.
Accordingly it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, with the exception of the estimation of the Medicaid URA for ADDERALL XR see below, Shire does not believe that the effect of these uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
There are potentially different interpretations as to how shipments of authorized generic ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax should be included in the Medicaid rebate calculation pursuant to Medicaid rebate legislation.
As a result more than one URA is calculable for the purpose of determining the Groups Medicaid rebate liability to States after authorized generic launch.
During 2009 the Group highlighted the different interpretations to CMS and submitted data to the CMS for the purpose of computing the URA, based on the Groups reasonable interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and related guidance.
The State Medicaid agencies have invoiced the Group for Medicaid rebates, and the Group has paid these Medicaid rebate invoices, based on this URA.
Despite this CMS has the ability to subsequently challenge the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, and require an alternative interpretation to be applied both retrospectively and prospectively, which could result in a significantly higher Medicaid liability.
Throughout 2009 the Groups management has recorded its accrual for Medicaid rebates based on its best estimate of the rebate payable.
The Groups management has developed this best estimate considering a number factors in combination, including: the level of URA invoiced by, and paid by the Group to, the State Medicaid agencies: the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation: the Groups correspondence with CMS highlighting the potential different interpretations of the Medicaid rebate legislation and related guidance: the likelihood of CMS employing an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation: an estimate of the amount the Group could be required to pay were CMS to employ an alternate interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation: the Groups willingness to initiate litigation to recover any additional amounts which may in the future be paid to CMS: and the Groups view of the ultimate outcome of any such litigation.
For the first three quarters of 2009, the Groups management based this best estimate on an amount that the Group could pay were CMS to challenge the Groups interpretation and require an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation to be applied.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Groups management lowered its best estimate of the Medicaid rebate payable down to be consistent with i the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, ii the Groups repeated and consistent submission of price reporting to CMS using the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, iii CMS calculating the URA based on that interpretation, iv States submitting Medicaid rebate invoices using this URA and v Shire paying these invoices.
This change of estimate increased ADDERALL XR product sales by $97.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 of which $73.6 million related to ADDERALL XR product sales recognized in the first three quarters of 2009.
In determining its best estimate of the Medicaid rebate liability at December 31, 2009 the Groups management has considered a number of factors taken in combination including the receipt of a further quarters invoices from the States with a URA based on the Groups interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and related guidance, and the Groups likely response were CMS to employ an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation.
Any future change in the Groups interpretation which results in a change of estimate both retrospectively and prospectively could significantly decrease ADDERALL XR product sales, which could have significant impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations in the period of any such change in estimate.
At December 31, 2009 the Group has recorded an ADDERALL XR Medicaid liability of $112.5 million.
The Group strongly believes that its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation is reasonable and correct.
However, CMS could disagree with the Groups interpretation, and require the Group to apply an alternative interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and pay up to $210 million above the recorded liability.
This would represent a URA substantially in excess of the unit sales price of ADDERALL XR and accordingly be in excess of the approximate amount of the full cost to the States of reimbursement for Medicaid prescriptions of ADDERALL XR.
Should CMS take such an approach, the Group could seek to limit any additional payments to a level approximating the full, un-rebated cost to the States of ADDERALL XR, or $98 million above the recorded liability.
Further, the Group believes it has a strong legal basis supporting its interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation, and that there would be a strong basis to initiate litigation to recover any amount paid in excess of its recorded liability.
The result of any such litigation cannot be predicted and could result in additional rebate liability above the Groups current best estimate.
Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $341.6 million, $222.5 million and $146.6 million, or 13%, 8% and 7% respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, with the exception of ADDERALL XR noted above, actual rebates have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
Product returns The Group typically accepts customer product returns in the following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product damaged while in the possession of Shire: c under sales terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d following product recalls or product withdrawals.
Returns are generally accepted up to one year after expiration date of the relevant product.
The Group typically refunds the agreed proportion of the sales price by the issuance of a credit, rather than cash refund or exchanges from inventory, and the returned product is destroyed.
Shire estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: past product returns activity: the duration of time taken for products to be returned: the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: product recalls and discontinuances: the shelf life of products: the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and the loss of patent protection or new competition.
84 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued Shires estimate of the level of inventory in the distribution channel is based on product-by-product inventory data provided by wholesalers, third-party prescription data and, for some product return provisions, market research of retail pharmacies.
Returns reserves for new products generally require a higher level of estimation than estimates for established products.
For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new product which can include guaranteed sales the Groups policy is to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is evidence of end-patient acceptance of the new product primarily through third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Groups initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the product are available, the returns provision is based on this data and any other relevant factors as noted above.
In the year to December 31, 2009 the Group launched INTUNIV, for the treatment of ADHD in children and adolescents in the US.
The Group recognized revenue of $5.4 million in 2009 and at December 31, 2009 had recorded deferred revenue on the balance sheet representing gross sales of $38.8 million relating to launch shipments of INTUNIV.
The accrual estimation process for product returns involves in each case a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly impacts the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
At the balance sheet date, provisions for product returns were $62.7 million in 2009, $47.1 million in 2008 and $39.5 million in 2007, or 2%, 2% and 2%, respectively, of net product sales.
Historically, actual returns have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
iv Income taxes In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgement, is greater than 50% likely to be realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
In accounting for income tax uncertainties, management is required to make judgements in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information in respect of the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Group may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with the tax authority.
Shire operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax authorities.
Because Shire operates globally, the nature of the uncertain tax positions is often very complex and subject to change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
Shire develops its cumulative probability assessment of the measurement of uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, experience and judgement, together with the assistance from professional advisors.
Original estimates are refined as additional information becomes known.
For example, during the year to December 31, 2009 the Group recognized additional interest expense of $21.3 million on its provision for uncertain tax positions following the receipt of new information on the amount of interest that may be payable upon settlement of the relevant tax position.
Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could significantly impact the Groups results of operations or financial condition.
However, Shire does not believe it possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of any such change in assumptions, estimates or judgements and the resultant change, if any, in our provision for uncertain tax positions, as any such change is dependent on factors such as changes in tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature of additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a settlement to any such position.
At December 31, 2009 the Group recognized a liability of $254.0 million for total unrecognized tax benefits 2008: $228.7 million and had accrued $111.5 million 2008: $76.2 million for the payment of interest and penalties.
The Group is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
These payments are offset against the income tax liability but do not reduce the provision for unrecognized tax benefits.
The Group has significant deferred tax assets due to various tax attributes including, net operating losses NOLs, tax credits from Research and Development, Investment Tax Credits and Alternative Minimum Tax principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, Germany and the UK.
The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the generation of sufficient taxable income in future periods.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize these deferred tax assets, based upon the availability of prudent and feasible tax planning strategies and estimates of future taxable income in the various jurisdictions in which these NOLs and other tax attributes exist.
Where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities there will not be sufficient taxable profits to utilize these tax attributes a valuation allowance is held against these deferred tax assets.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation allowance could significantly impact the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
At December 31, 2009, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $448 million and gross deferred tax assets of $515 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $149 million.
At December 31, 2008, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $504 million and gross deferred tax assets of $472 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $119 million.
At December 31, 2007, the Group had deferred tax liabilities of $510 million and gross deferred tax assets of $587 million, against which the Group had recorded valuation allowances of $105 million.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 85 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES continued v Litigation and legal proceedings The Group has a number of lawsuits pending that relate to intellectual property infringement claims, and in September 2009 the Group received a subpoena from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General seeking production of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE, see Note 24 for further details.
Shire records a loss contingency provision for probable losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Where the estimated loss lies within a range and no particular amount within that range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
In other cases managements best estimate of the loss is recorded.
These estimates are developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period, as additional information becomes known.
Best estimates are reviewed quarterly and estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from Shires best estimate may result in an additional or lesser expense in a future accounting period, which could materially impact the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
On November 5, 2008 the Group announced that it had successfully settled all aspects of the TKT appraisal rights litigation with all parties.
Shire paid the same price of $37 per share originally offered to all TKT shareholders at the time of the July 2005 merger, plus interest.
The settlement represents a total payment of $567.5 million, representing consideration at $37 per share of $419.9 million and an interest cost of $147.6 million.
Prior to reaching this settlement, the Group accrued interest based on a reasonable estimate of the amount that may be awarded by the Court to those former TKT shareholders who requested appraisal.
This estimate of interest was based on Shires cost of borrowing.
Between the close of the merger and November 5, 2008 the Group applied this interest rate on a quarterly compounding basis to the $419.9 million of consideration to calculate its provision for interest.
Upon reaching agreement in principle with all the dissenting shareholders, the Group determined that settlement had become the probable manner through which the appraisal rights litigation would be resolved.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment to the law became effective the court presumptively awards interest in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is five percentage points above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration of the case.
In connection with the settlement, the Group agreed to an interest rate that approximates to this statutory rate.
Based on the settlement, the Group amended the method of determining its interest provision to reflect this revised manner of resolution, and recorded additional interest expense of $73.0 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year to December 31, 2008 on reaching settlement with the dissenting shareholders.
4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009 EQUASYM IR and XL On March 31, 2009 the Group acquired the worldwide rights excluding the US, Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM IR and XL for the treatment of ADHD from UCB Pharma Limited UCB for cash consideration of $72.8 million.
Included within the recognized purchase price for the acquisition is further consideration of $18.2 million, which may become payable in 2010 and 2011 if certain sales targets are met.
This acquisition has broadened the scope of Shires ADHD portfolio and facilitated immediate access to the European ADHD market as well as providing Shire the opportunity to enter additional markets around the world.
The acquisition of EQUASYM IR and XL has been accounted for as a business combination.
The purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to the currently marketed products acquired $73.0 million, IPR&D $5.5 million, other liabilities $0.7 million and goodwill $13.2 million.
Business combinations completed prior to January 1, 2009 Jerini acquisition On July 3, 2008 the Group announced that it was launching a voluntary public takeover offer for all outstanding shares in Jerini, a German corporation, at a price of EUR 6.25 per share.
By August 6, 2008 the Group had acquired 80.1% of the voting interests in Jerini for a cash consideration of $456.3 million.
By December 31, 2008 the Group had acquired 98.6% of the voting interests in Jerini for a cash consideration of $556.5 million, represented by Jerini shares, $539.8 million, the cash cost of cancelling Jerini stock options $9.4 million and direct costs of acquisition $7.3 million.
By December 31, 2009 the Group had acquired the rights to the remaining 1.4% of the voting interests in Jerini for additional cash consideration of $10.5 million including direct acquisition costs, such that the Group owned 100% of Jerini.
The acquisition added Jerinis hereditary angioedema HAE product FIRAZYR to Shires portfolio.
The acquisition of Jerini has been accounted for as a purchase business combination.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Jerini have been recorded at the date of acquisition at their fair value.
Consolidated financial statements and reported results of operations of Shire issued after the acquisition of a majority holding reflect these values, with the results of Jerini included from August 1, 2008, for convenience purposes, in the consolidated statements of operations.
Between acquiring the Groups controlling voting interest in early August 2008 and December 31, 2009, the Group acquired the remaining voting interests totaling 19.9% of Jerinis issued share capital.
The additional voting interests have been accounted for as step-acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting.
The purchase price was allocated on a preliminary basis to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The final fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed was determined in July 2009, and the adjustment in the second quarter of 2009 to recognize assumed liabilities is detailed in section c below.
86 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The following table presents the Groups preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values based on the Groups 80.1% voting interest acquired by August 6, 2008: Fair value $M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 56.7 Restricted cash 0.4 Inventories 1.9 Assets held-for-sale 24.4 Other current assets 4.9 Total current assets 88.3 Property, plant and equipment 3.6 Goodwill 121.0 Other intangible assets currently marketed product 257.6 in-process R&D 104.1 Deferred tax asset 0.5 Total assets 575.1 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: 31.3 Deferred tax liability 76.3 Other long-term liabilities 0.8 Total liabilities 108.4 Estimated fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 466.7 Noncontrolling interest 10.4 Cost of 80.1% voting interest acquired 456.3 a Other intangible assets, currently marketed product Other intangible assets includes $320.2 million being $257.6 million acquired as of August 6, 2008 and $62.6 million in the subsequent step acquisitions relating to intellectual property rights in respect of Jerinis currently marketed product, FIRAZYR, which received marketing authorization from the European Commission in July 2008 for the treatment of acute HAE in the EU.
These intellectual property rights include the right to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding including the way in which FIRAZYR reacts in body, an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow FIRAZYR to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and marketing studies performed to obtain approval of FIRAZYR.
The fair value of FIRAZYR in the EU has been determined using an income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method, based on the present value of incremental after tax cash flows attributable to the asset after the deduction of contributory asset charges for the assets employed including working capital, the assembled workforce and other fixed assets.
This intangible asset has an estimated useful life of 17 years, will be amortized on a straight-line basis, and has been allocated to the HGT reporting segment.
b Other intangible assets, IPR&D IPR&D is defined as being a development project that has been initiated and has achieved material progress but i has not yet reached technological feasibility or has not yet received the appropriate regulatory approval, ii has no alternative future use, and iii the fair value is estimable with reasonable certainty.
A project-by-project valuation using business combination and intangible assets guidance in the Codification and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid Assets Acquired in a Business Combination to Be Used In Research and Development Activities: A Focus on Software, Electronic Devices and Pharmaceutical Industries has been performed to determine the fair value of research and development projects of Jerini which were in-process, but not yet completed as of the acquisition date.
The IPR&D assets of $129.7 million being $104.1 million acquired as of August 6, 2008 and $25.6 million in the subsequent step acquisitions relate to FIRAZYR for the treatment of acute HAE in the US $64.9 million, and the rest of the world excluding the US and EU RoW, $64.8 million.
These IPR&D assets have not yet received approval from the relevant regulatory authorities at the acquisition date.
In the US FIRAZYR received a not approvable letter from the FDA in April 2008.
The Group considers that these IPR&D assets have no alternative future use outside of their current development projects and the fair value of these IPR&D assets has therefore been charged to the consolidated statements of operations in accordance with the US GAAP for business combinations which completed prior to January 1, 2009.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 87 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The fair value of the FIRAZYR IPR&D assets was determined using the income approach applying the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the IPR&D assets has been based on the incremental cash flows expected to be generated by the development projects after the deduction of contributory asset charges in respect of other assets employed in these research projects including working capital, the assembled workforce and other fixed assets.
These estimated future cash flows were then probability adjusted to take into account the stage of completion and the remaining risks and uncertainties surrounding the future development and commercialization of FIRAZYR.
These estimated probability adjusted, after tax cash flows were then discounted at 1718% to determine a present, or fair, value.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the efficacy of the technology based on data from the clinical trials, and obtaining the relevant regulatory approvals.
The valuations have been based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the Groups management, and ii are based on information, expectations and assumptions that would be available to and be made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions or events associated with such assets will occur as projected.
For these reasons, among others, the actual cash flows may vary from forecast future cash flows.
c Goodwill Goodwill of $152.8 million being $121.0 million acquired as of August 6, 2008 and $31.8 million in the subsequent step acquisitions has been wholly allocated to the HGT reporting segment and is not deductible for tax purposes.
d Assets held-for-sale On acquisition of Jerini the Group and Jerini commenced a strategic review of the acquired assets to identify which of the assets were non-core to the newly combined business.
In October 2008 Jerini announced that its Supervisory and Management Boards had concluded that it was in the best interests of Jerini to divest Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. JOI, Jerini Peptide Technologies GmbH JPT and Jerinis pre-clinical projects.
The Group presented the fair value less costs to sell of JOI and JPT as assets held-for-sale at the acquisition date.
These held-for-sale assets were recorded at their aggregate fair value less costs to sell of $27.8 million within the purchase price allocation, the carrying value being primarily represented by the fair value of IPR&D.
In May 2009 JPT was divested for cash consideration of $6.7 million, resulting in a loss on disposal of $0.5 million.
For the years to December 31, 2009 and 2008 the Group has presented JOI and JPT as discontinued operations, recording revenues and the pre-tax loss from these businesses within discontinued operations for the year to December 31, 2009 of $2.3 million and $12.4 million 2008: $3.6 million and $17.6 million, 2007: $nil and $nil respectively.
The loss from discontinued operations for the year to December 31, 2009 includes the $0.5 million loss on disposal of JPT and charges of $5.9 million relating to re-measurement of JOI assets to fair value.
as a result of the closure, rather than divestment, of JOI.
The loss from discontinued operations in the year to December 31, 2008 also includes a charge of $12.9 million arising on the re-measurement of assets held-for-sale to their fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2008.
Further, in 2009, the Group adjusted the preliminary purchase price allocation to recognize assumed liabilities for onerous contract costs and employee involuntary termination costs incurred on closure of JOI and the pre-clinical projects totaling $9.1 million.
These adjustments were recognized as an increase in acquired goodwill.
METAZYM acquisition On June 4, 2008 Shire completed the acquisition of the global rights to METAZYM from Zymenex A S Zymenex for $135.0 million in cash, and recognized an IPR&D charge of $135.0 million during 2008 for the acquired development project.
New River acquisition On April 19, 2007 Shire completed its acquisition of New River by way of a short-form merger, in an all-cash transaction.
The acquisition was effected by merging Shuttle Corporation, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Shire, with and into New River, with New River continuing as the surviving corporation.
As consideration, Shire paid to New Rivers shareholders $64 in cash for each share of New River common stock outstanding at the time of the acquisition.
The acquisition of New River allowed Shire to capture the full economic value of VYVANSE, and gain control of the future development and commercialization of this product.
VYVANSE for ADHD in pediatric populations was approved by the FDA on February 23, 2007 and the Group received notification from the Drug Enforcement Administration DEA of the final Schedule II classification for VYVANSE on May 3, 2007.
The acquisition of New River was accounted for using the purchase method.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of New River were recorded at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The consolidated financial statements and reported results of operations of Shire issued after the completion of the acquisition reflect these fair values, with the results of New River being included within the consolidated statements of operations from April 19, 2007.
Total consideration, was $2,594.5 million at the price of $64 per share of New Rivers common stock, including direct cash consideration of $2,276.0 million, the cost of settling stock options and SARs of $124.5 million, the cost of settling warrants over shares of New River common stock of $133.0 million and direct acquisition costs of $61.0 million.
88 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Accounting for the Effective Settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreement Prior to the acquisition of New River, on January 31, 2005 Shire entered into a collaboration agreement with New River which governed the development, manufacture and commercialization of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in the US and RoW territories.
In March 2005, this collaboration agreement was split into two separate agreements, the US Collaboration Agreement and the RoW Territory License Agreement together the New River Collaboration Agreements.
Under the terms of the New River Collaboration Agreements, the parties were required to collaborate on the development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of VYVANSE in the US.
Profits from the collaboration arising in the US were to be divided according to a predetermined formula, based on the scheduling of VYVANSE by the DEA.
Post-approval milestones were due under the New River Collaboration Agreements if the product received favorable scheduling schedule III, IV or V or unscheduled and on the achievement of certain sales milestones.
Through the New River Collaboration Agreements Shire also acquired the license in the RoW territory to develop and commercialize VYVANSE, in consideration of a low double-digit royalty.
Shire paid an initial sum of $50 million to New River in January 2005 on signing the original collaboration agreement and a further $50 million was paid by Shire to New River following acceptance of the filing of a New Drug Application NDA by the FDA in January 2006.
As Shire had a pre-existing relationship with New River, Shire accounted for the effective settlement of this relationship as of the completion date of the New River acquisition.
Shire measured the effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements resulting from its pre-existing relationship with New River and determined that, in respect of the US Collaboration Agreement, it was less favorable to the Group when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items.
The RoW Territory License Agreement was determined to be at current market rates.
The valuation of the New River Collaboration Agreements and their current market comparators was based upon information available at the time of the acquisition and using the expectations and assumptions that were deemed reasonable by the Groups management.
Although the US Collaboration Agreement was deemed less favorable to the Group at the time of the acquisition when compared with pricing for current market transactions for similar items, the Group did not record a loss on the effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship in the consolidated statements of operations, nor did the Group adjust its purchase price for New River to reflect any such loss resulting from this effective settlement, as settlement provisions in the US Collaboration Agreement available to the Group enabled effective settlement of the New River Collaboration Agreements at no cost to the Group.
a Purchase price allocation Shires cost of acquiring New River of approximately $2.6 billion has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed according to their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
Based on this allocation, and at the end of the allocation period, an excess of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of acquisition totaling $122.2 million had arisen which was allocated as a pro-rata reduction of amounts that would otherwise have been ascribed to identifiable intangible assets and IPR&D, such IPR&D being immediately charged to expense, having no alternative future use.
The value of other intangible assets and IPR&D below are presented after this pro-rata allocation.
During the second half of 2008, after the end of the allocation period, the Group reduced the values ascribed to other intangible assets by $24.1 million from amounts previously assigned to these assets in the purchase price allocation.
The change to the values ascribed arose from changes to estimates of deferred taxes: accordingly the excess of the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the cost of the acquisition increased by $24.1 million.
This excess was allocated to intangible assets.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 89 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The following table presents the Groups allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including the post-allocation period adjustment as outlined above, based on their fair values: $M ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 74.9 Short-term investments 55.8 Accounts receivable, net 0.3 Inventories 11.4 Purchased call option 141.8 Deferred tax asset 68.1 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 0.2 Total current assets 352.5 Property, plant and equipment, net 0.8 Other intangible assets, net Intellectual propertydeveloped technology 1,064.5 Favorable manufacturing contracts 8.7 In-process research and development 1,866.4 Total assets 3,292.9 LIABILITIES Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 33.3 Convertible loan notes 279.4 312.7 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liability 385.7 Total liabilities 698.4 Net assets acquired 2,594.5 b IPR&D A project-by-project valuation was performed to determine the fair values of research and development projects of New River which were in-process, but not completed as of the completion of the acquisition.
IPR&D assets totaling $1,866.4 million were identified relating to VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in non-pediatric patients in the US $1,786.8 million and VYVANSE indicated for ADHD in RoW, $79.6 million.
Both of these IPR&D assets had not received approval, either from the FDA or from the relevant regulators in the RoW at the acquisition date.
The Group considered that these IPR&D assets have no alternative future use outside of their current development projects, and these assets were therefore charged to expense in the consolidated statements of operations as of the acquisition date.
The fair value of the VYVANSE IPR&D assets was determined through the income approach using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D assets was based on the present value of the probability adjusted incremental cash flows expected to be generated by the research and development projects, after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these projects such other assets include working capital, the assembled workforce, and the favorable manufacturing contract identified below.
The valuation assumed that the effective settlement of the pre-existing New River Collaboration Agreements had occurred and Shire had purchased 100% of the forecast future cash flows.
Estimated future cash flows were probability adjusted to take into account the stage of completion and the risks surrounding the successful development and commercialization of the acquired projects.
The estimated after tax cash flows were discounted to present value using risk adjusted discount rates between 10% and 12%.
The major risks and uncertainties associated with the timely completion of the acquired IPR&D projects consist of the ability to confirm the safety and efficacy of the technology based on the data from ongoing clinical trials and obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.
The valuations were based on information at the time of the acquisition and expectations and assumptions that i were deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii were based on information, expectations and assumptions that would have been available to and made by a market participant.
90 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued c Identifiable intangible assets The acquired identifiable intangible assets were attributable to the following categories: Fair value Asset life $M Years 1 Intellectual propertydeveloped technology 1,064.5 20 2 Favorable manufacturing contract 8.7 5 1,073.2 1 Relates to VYVANSE approved for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric patients in the US.
2 The asset life of 20 years represents the period over which management believe the asset will contribute to the future cash flows of Shire, being the expected commercial lifespan of VYVANSE VYVANSE has patent protection in the US until September 2023.
Acquired identifiable intangible assets primarily represent the value ascribed to developed technology, represented by VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US.
These rights include the rights to develop, use, market, sell and or offer for sale the technical processes, intellectual property and institutional understanding including the way in which VYVANSE reacts in body, an understanding of the mechanisms of action which allow VYVANSE to work and the knowledge related to the associated clinical and marketing studies performed for VYVANSE.
The fair value of this intellectual property in respect of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations was determined through the income approach using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The valuation assumes that the effective settlement of the pre-existing New River Collaboration Agreements has occurred and Shire has purchased 100% of the cash flows of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US.
Using the multi-period excess earnings method, the fair value of intellectual property in respect of VYVANSE for the treatment of ADHD in pediatric populations in the US was based on the present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset, after the deduction of contributory asset charges for other assets employed including working capital, the assembled workforce, and the favorable manufacturing contract.
The valuations were based on information available at the time of the acquisition and the expectations and assumptions that i were deemed reasonable by Shires management, and ii were based on information, expectations and assumptions that would have been available to and made by a market participant.
d Convertible Notes In July 2006, New River issued $137.8 million of 3.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2013 the Notes.
On conversion of the Notes New River was obligated to pay the principal amount of the Notes to the Note holders in cash, with any excess of the fair value over their principal amount the Excess Conversion Value being payable either in cash, shares of New River common stock or a combination of shares of New River common stock and cash at the election of New River.
On April 3, 2007 New River announced that it had elected to settle any Excess Conversion Value in cash.
Following the change of control of New River as a result of the business combination, Note holders were entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate if they tendered their Notes for conversion prior to May 17, 2007.
The Notes were included in the purchase price allocation at their fair value, being the present value of the estimated future cash flows in respect of the Notes as of the date of acquisition.
All the outstanding Notes were tendered for conversion in the period between the acquisition and May 17, 2007 and were therefore settled in cash during the second quarter of 2007 at a value of $279.4 million, which equates to the fair value of the Notes at the acquisition date including the make-whole premium.
e Purchased Call Option Concurrent with the issue of the Notes, New River also entered into a purchased call option with Merrill Lynch at a cost to New River of $43.5 million, being a convertible note hedge transaction for the Excess Conversion Value of the Notes.
The purchased call options covered, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 4,005,811 shares of New River common stock at strike prices which corresponded to the conversion price of the Notes.
New River had recorded the cost of acquiring the purchased call option to additional paid-in capital.
As a result of New Rivers election on April 3, 2007 to settle the Excess Conversion Value in cash, Merrill Lynch was obligated to settle the purchased call option in cash.
The fair value of the purchased call option represents the Excess Conversion Value of the Notes, including the make-whole premium.
This fair value of $141.8 million was recorded by the Group as an asset within the purchase price allocation.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 91 4 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Supplemental disclosure of pro-forma information The following unaudited pro-forma financial information presents the combined results of the operations of Shire, Jerini and New River as if the acquisitions of New River had occurred on at January 1, 2006 and the acquisition of Jerini at January 1, 2007 based upon Shires ownership interest of 100% and 98.6% of New River and Jerini respectively.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually would have been had the acquisition been completed at the dates indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro-forma financial information does not purport to project the future results of operations of the combined Group.
2008 2007 $M $M Revenues 3,031.6 2,461.7 Net income 114.7 204.6 Net income attributable to Shire plc 97.1 204.6 Per share amounts: Earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholdersbasic 21.2 37.0 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersbasic 18.0 37.0 Earnings per Ordinary Share from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholdersdiluted 21.0 36.4 Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersdiluted 17.8 36.4 The unaudited pro-forma financial information above reflects the following pro-forma adjustments: Jerini i an adjustment to decrease interest income by $9.1 million and $29.0 million in the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, to reflect the interest foregone on the Groups cash resources used to fund the acquisition of a majority voting interest in Jerini: and ii an adjustment to increase amortization expense by approximately $12.1 million and $18.2 million for the years to December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, to reflect amortization of intangible assets relating to the currently marketed product, over the estimated useful life of 17 years.
New River all adjustments relate to the year ended December 31, 2007 iii an adjustment to eliminate revenues recognized by New River of $3.0 million: iv an adjustment to increase interest expense by $25.3 million, to reflect the interest expense and amortization of deferred issue costs associated with the $1,300 million drawn down under the Facilities Agreement which was entered into by Shire on February 21, 2007 for the purpose of financing the acquisition of New River: v an adjustment to decrease interest income by $6.5 million, to reflect the interest foregone on the Groups cash resources used to part fund the acquisition of New River: vi an adjustment to increase amortization expense based on the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price allocation, which are being amortized over their estimated useful lives over a range of five to 20 years, of approximately $28.1 million: and vii an adjustment to the weighted average number of shares used in the pro-forma EPS calculation to reflect the private placement of 42.9 million new Ordinary Shares of Shire plc on February 20, 2007, the proceeds of which were used to partially fund the acquisition of New River, as if the private placement took place on January 1, 2007.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information above does not include the New River IPR&D charge of $1,866.4 million and the IPR&D charge of $128.1 million in respect of FIRAZYR outside of the EU, both of which formed part of the preliminary purchase price allocations, because they are non-recurring in nature.
The unaudited pro-forma financial information includes a charge of $81.8 million for the year to December 31, 2007 in respect of New River cash settled Share Appreciation Rights SARs which were extinguished as a result of the acquisition.
92 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 5 TERMINATION OF DURAMED PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. DURAMED COLLABORATION AGREEMENT In August 2006, Shire and Duramed a subsidiary of Teva entered into an agreement related to SEASONIQUE, a number of products using Durameds transvaginal ring technology and other oral products the Collaboration Products.
Under this agreement, Shire was required to reimburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred on Collaboration Products up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from September 2006, and Shire had the right to commercialize these products in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets.
On February 24, 2009 Shire and Duramed amended this agreement such that it terminated on December 31, 2009.
Pursuant to this amendment, Shire agreed to return to Duramed its rights under the agreement effective February 24, 2009.
Shire also agreed to reimburse Duramed for incurred US development expenditures in 2009 up to a maximum of $30.0 million.
Shire has no rights with respect to the products on which such development expenditures are incurred.
In addition, Shire agreed to a one-time payment to Duramed of $10.0 million, which was paid during the first quarter of 2009, and to forego royalties receivable from Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr a subsidiary of Teva and cost of goods otherwise payable by Barr to Shire in 2009 under the License Agreement between the parties for the supply of authorized generic ADDERALL XR, up to a maximum of $25.0 million.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group recorded a charge of $62.9 million to research and development to reflect the cash payment made in the first quarter of 2009 and other termination related costs.
A reconciliation of the contract termination liability is presented below: Amount charged Utilization to R&D Amount paid of reserve Closing liability Year to December 31, 2009 $M $M $M $M Contract termination costs 62.9 27.9 25.0 10.0 The charge of $62.9 million has been included within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment in the Groups segmental analysis, see Note 26.
6 GAIN ON SALE OF PRODUCT RIGHTS During 2007 and 2008 the Group streamlined its operations through the divestment of certain non-core products.
In 2007 the Group received cash consideration of $234.4 million on the disposal of non-core products, which included $209.6 million from Laboratorios Almirall S. A Almirall on the transfer of product licenses, including SOLARAZE and VANIQA, and in 2008 Shire received a further $5.0 million in cash for the transfer of other non-core product rights.
The Group recognizes gains in respect of these divested product rights when the relevant regulatory or other consents for the transfer of these product rights are obtained.
Accordingly Shire recognized gains of $6.3 million, $20.7 million and $127.8 million in the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively on disposal of these non-core assets.
At December 31, 2009 the Group recorded as a deposit within Other current liabilities $5.8 million 2008: $12.5 million of proceeds from the disposal of these products where regulatory or other consents have yet to be obtained.
All assets disposed of during 2009, 2008 and 2007 formed part of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment.
7 REORGANIZATION COSTS Owings Mills In March 2009 the Groups management approved and initiated plans to phase out operations and close the Groups Specialty Pharmaceuticals manufacturing facility at Owings Mills, Maryland.
Over the next three years, all products currently manufactured by Shire at this site will transition to DSM Pharmaceutical Products, and operations and employee numbers at the site will wind down over this period.
During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group incurred reorganization costs of $12.7 million 2008: $nil, 2007: $nil which relate to employee involuntary termination benefits, impairment charges for property, plant and equipment and other costs.
As a result of the decision to transfer manufacturing from the Owings Mills site the Group has revised the life of property, plant and equipment in the facility, and in the year to December 31, 2009 has incurred accelerated depreciation of $12.0 million, which has been charged to Cost of product sales.
Consequently, the Group estimates an annual accelerated depreciation charge, over the level which would have been charged absent the wind down of operations, of $22.5 million in 2010.
The reorganization costs and accelerated depreciation have been recorded within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals reportable segment.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 93 7 REORGANIZATION COSTS continued Jerini non-core operations As outlined in Note 4, the operations of JOI and certain other non-core pre-clinical operations acquired with Jerini were closed down in the year to December 31, 2009.
On closure of these operations the Group recorded a liability for costs associated with these closures of $9.1 million, relating to employee involuntary termination benefits and other closure costs.
This liability was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses with a corresponding increase to goodwill arising on the acquisition.
The aggregate liability for reorganization costs arising on the Owings Mills and Jerini closures at December 31, 2009 is as follows: Assumed Amount liability through charged to business Closing re-organization combinations Paid utilized liability at Year to December 31, 2009 $M $M $M $M Involuntary termination benefits 5.6 5.5 7.0 4.1 Contract termination costs 3.6 0.8 2.8 Other termination costs 2.1 2.1 7.7 9.1 9.9 6.9 Impairment charges 5.0 Reorganization costs for the year to December 31, 2009 12.7 At December 31, 2009 the closing reorganization cost liability was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses $3.9 million and other non-current liabilities $3.0 million.
8 INTEGRATION AND ACQUISITION COSTS Integration costs of $7.7 million 2008: $10.3 million, 2007: $1.3 million, were incurred in the year to December 31, 2009.
Integration costs in 2009 and 2008 relate to the integration of Jerini, and in 2007 relate to the integration of New River into Shire.
Acquisition costs of $2.9 million 2008: $nil, 2007: $nil, primarily relating to direct acquisition costs and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration recognized on the acquisition of EQUASYM, were incurred in the year to December 31, 2009.
9 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET Accounts receivable at December 31, 2009 of $597.5 million December 31, 2008: $395.0 million, are stated net of a provision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $10.0 million December 31, 2008: $20.8 million, 2007: $9.8 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2009 2008 2007 $M $M $M As at January 1, 20.2 9.8 8.8 Provision charged to operations 127.4 95.0 60.1 Provision utilization 118.5 84.6 59.1 Reclassification 8.3 As at December 31, 20.8 20.2 9.8 During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group reclassified its provision for Tricare Health Care Program rebates of $8.3 million at January 1, 2009 from provisions for discounts and doubtful accounts to accounts payable and accrued expenses.
At December 31, 2009 accounts receivable included $92.4 million December 31, 2008: $38.4 million of accrued receivables related to royalty income.
94 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 10 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and are analyzed as follows: December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Finished goods 50.9 41.4 Work-in-progress 102.1 78.7 Raw materials 36.7 34.4 189.7 154.5 At December 31, 2009 inventories included $18.8 million December 31, 2008: $11.5 million of costs capitalized prior to the regulatory approval of the relevant product.
11 ASSETS HELD-FOR-SALE At December 31, 2009 assets held-for-sale had a carrying value of $1.7 million, represented by intangible assets and attributed goodwill for certain products divested to Almirall in 2007 December 31, 2008: $16.6 million.
The recognition of the gains arising on the disposal of these products and the fide-recognition of the related assets have been deferred pending the completion of the transfer of the relevant regulatory and other consents to the acquirer see Note 6.
These assets divested to Almirall form part of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment.
At December 31, 2008 assets held-for-sale also included $14.9 million for the operations of JOI and JPT.
In May 2009, JPT was divested for cash consideration of $6.7 million, and a loss on disposal of $0.5 million has been recognized within discontinued operations for the year to December 31, 2009.
During the second quarter of 2009 the Group closed JOI and recorded a re-measurement adjustment of $5.9 million to record the JOI assets at the lower of their fair value and carrying value see Note 4.
12 PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Prepaid expenses 44.9 47.6 Income tax receivable 33.2 Value added taxes receivable 37.3 19.3 Other current assets 31.3 41.3 113.5 141.4 13 INVESTMENTS December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Investments in private companies 3.9 19.3 Available-for-sale securities 87.0 6.1 Equity method investments 14.8 17.5 105.7 42.9 Disposal of Virochem Pharma Inc. Virochem On March 12, 2009 the Group completed the disposal of its cost investment in Virochem to Vertex in a cash and stock transaction.
The disposal was part of a transaction entered into by all the shareholders of Virochem with Vertex.
The carrying amount of the Groups investment in Virochem on March 12, 2009 was $14.8 million.
Shire received total consideration of $19.2 million in cash and two million Vertex shares valued at $50.8 million from the disposal, recognizing a gain on disposal of $55.2 million which has been recognized in Other income expense, net during the year to December 31, 2009.
Additional consideration of $2.0 million in cash and 0.2 million Vertex shares is being held in escrow until March 11, 2010 pending any warranty claims and breaches of representations made by Virochem and by all selling shareholders, including Shire.
The escrow conditions are considered substantive and hence a gain has not been recognized relating to these amounts in the year to December 31, 2009.
The Vertex stock received has been accounted for as an available-for-sale investment.
Disposal of Questcor Pharmaceutical Inc. Questcor For the year to December 31, 2008 Other expense income net includes a gain of $9.4 million from the sale of Shires available-for-sale investment in Questcor, a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on providing prescription drugs for central nervous system disorders.
Shire received cash consideration of $10.3 million on the sale of this investment.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 95 13 INVESTMENTS continued Other-than-temporary impairment of available-for-sale securities The Group recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $0.8 million, $58.0 million and $3.0 million against its available-for-sale securities in the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively.
During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group recognized impairment charges of $44.3 million relating to its investment in Renovo Group plc, representing unrealized holding losses that were reclassified out of other comprehensive income into earnings in 2008, as management concluded that the impairment was other-than-temporary.
The decline in the market value of the Groups investment in Renovo Group plc initially arose from the results of clinical trials for JUVISTA which were announced over 2007 and 2008.
During the third quarter of 2008, in considering whether the decline in value was temporary or other-than-temporary the Group considered the following factors: the severity of the decline from historical cost 87% and its duration eleven months : market analysts targets of Renovo Group plcs share price for the next 1824 months: and the revised expected filing date for JUVISTA due to the adoption of a sequential rather than parallel Phase 3 development plan.
As such, the Group concluded that the decline in value was other-than-temporary.
Therefore the full difference between the book value of the investment and the fair market value was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment.
Accordingly the Group recognized an impairment charge of $44.3 million for its investment in Renovo Group plc through the consolidated statements of operations in the third quarter of 2008.
For purposes of computing the impairment charge fair value was assumed to be 0.26 per share, representing the closing price of Renovo Group plc securities on the London Stock Exchange on September 30, 2008.
14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Land and buildings 398.7 267.6 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 280.5 228.2 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 114.5 80.1 Assets under construction 193.2 164.3 986.9 740.2 Less: Accumulated depreciation 310.1 206.0 676.8 534.2 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $105.0 million, $77.2 million, and $65.3 million respectively.
The expense included impairment losses of $6.3 million, $2.2 million and $1.8 million in the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively.
15 GOODWILL December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 384.7 350.8 During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group acquired the worldwide rights excluding the US, Canada and Barbados to EQUASYM IR and XL for a total consideration of $91.0 million, which resulted in goodwill of $13.2 million see Note 4.
The goodwill has been assigned to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment.
During the year to December 31, 2008 the Group acquired a 98.6% voting interest in Jerini for cash consideration of $556.5 million which resulted in goodwill of $148.0 million see Note 4.
This goodwill has been attributed to the HGT reporting segment.
At December 31, 2009 goodwill of $214.5 million 2008: $202.4 million is held in the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment and $170.2 million 2008: $148.4 million in the HGT segment.
2009 2008 $M $M As at January 1, 350.8 219.4 Acquisitions including finalisation of purchase price allocation 27.1 148.0 Foreign currency translation 6.8 16.6 As at December 31, 384.7 350.8 96 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 16 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Intellectual property rights acquired Currently marketed products 2,351.6 2,253.2 IPR&D 6.1 Favorable manufacturing contracts 8.7 8.7 2,366.4 2,261.9 Less: accumulated amortization 575.7 437.0 1,790.7 1,824.9 At December 31, 2009 the net book value of intangible assets allocated to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals segment was $1,238.0 million December 31, 2008: $1,244.9 million and in the HGT segment was $552.7 million December 31, 2008: $580.0 million.
The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to December 31, 2009 is shown in the table below: Other intangible assets $M As at January 1, 2009 1,824.9 Acquisitions 84.0 Amortization charged 138.6 Foreign currency translation 20.4 As at December 31, 2009 1,790.7 During the year to December 31, 2009 the Group acquired intangible assets totaling $84.0 million, principally relating to $78.5 million for EQUASYM IR and XL for the treatment of ADHD $73.0 million for currently marketed products and $5.5 million for IPR&D.
The weighted average amortization period for acquired currently marketed products is 13 years.
Amortization charged for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $138.6 million, $127.9 million and $95.8 million, respectively.
The Group recorded impairments of $nil, $97.1 million and $0.4 million in the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively, recorded within Selling, general and administrative costs.
In 2008 the Group recognized impairment charges of $97.1 million, of which $94.6 million related to the writedown of its DYNEPO intangible asset to its fair value $nil.
Changes in the external environment, including the launch of several competing bio-similars at lower prices made DYNEPO uneconomic for the Group.
Accordingly Group has decided to stop commercializing DYNEPO.
Product sales were wound down over the second half of 2008 as all patients were transferred off DYNEPO by the end of 2008.
The fair value of DYNEPO was determined using an expected present value technique.
The impairment charges relate to the Specialty Pharmaceuticals reportable segment.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2009 will be approximately $140 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2014.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of the acquired IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
17 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Trade accounts payable 79.6 102.4 Accrued rebatesMedicaid 188.2 162.6 Accrued rebatesManaged care 153.4 59.9 Sales return reserve 62.7 47.1 Accrued bonuses 66.8 62.0 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 42.6 36.7 Research and development accruals 53.1 29.3 Marketing accruals 31.5 22.1 Deferred revenue 52.2 9.6 Other accrued expenses 199.0 176.9 929.1 708.6 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 97 17 ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES continued Accrued Medicaid rebates have increased by $25.6 million to $188.2 million at December 31, 2009 2008: $162.6 million.
As a result more than one unit rebate amount URA is calculable for the purpose of determining the Groups Medicaid rebate liability to States as a result of authorized generic launch.
During 2009 the Group highlighted the different interpretations to Centre of Medicaid Services CMS and submitted data to CMS for the purpose of computing the URA, based on the Groups reasonable interpretation of the Medicaid rebate legislation and related guidance.
This change of estimate increased ADDERALL XR product sales by $97.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 of which $73.6 million related to ADDERALL XR sales recognized in the first three quarters of 2009.
Any future change in the Groups interpretation which results in a change of estimate both retrospectively and prospectively could significantly decrease sales of ADDERALL XR in the period of any such change in estimate.
Accrued Managed Care rebates have increased by $93.5 million to $153.4 million 2008: $59.9 million, principally due to higher rebates on ADDERALL XR offered to Managed Care Organizations from April 1, 2009.
18 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Income taxes payable 46.7 25.8 Value added taxes 10.3 4.4 Derivative financial instruments 1.2 46.9 Other accrued liabilities 29.8 27.2 88.0 104.3 98 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 19 LONG-TERM DEBT Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 On May 9, 2007 Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 and convertible into fully paid Ordinary Shares of Shire plc the Bonds.
The net proceeds of issuing the Bonds, after deducting the commissions and other direct costs of issue, totaled $1,081.7 million.
In connection with the Scheme of Arrangement the Trust Deed was amended and restated in 2008 in order to provide that, following the substitution of Shire plc in place of Old Shire as the principal obligor and issuer of the Convertible Bonds, the Bonds would be convertible into Ordinary Shares of Shire plc.
The Bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount, and unless previously purchased and canceled, redeemed or converted, will be redeemed on May 9, 2014 the Final Maturity Date at their principal amount.
The Bonds bear interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constitute direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
The Bonds may be redeemed at the option of the Company the Call Option, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancellations, and or redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds may also be redeemed at the option of the Bond holder at their principal amount including accrued but unpaid interest on May 9, 2012 the Put Option, or following the occurrence of a change of control.
The Bonds are repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final Maturity Date and following exercise of the Put Option, by delivery of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
The Bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling 14 days prior to the Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business 14 days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond holder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond holder is entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of $33.17 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment as outlined below.
The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control and iii customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and reorganizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 was adjusted to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period from October 2007 to April 2009 inclusive.
The shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
The Bonds have been recorded at their principal amount within Non-current liabilities.
Direct costs of issue of the Bonds paid in the year to December 31, 2007 totaled $18.3 million.
These costs are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the five year period to the Put Option date.
At December 31, 2009 $8.8 million was deferred $3.8 million within other current assets and $5.0 million within other non-current assets.
Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement Shire has a committed revolving credit facility the RCF in an aggregate amount of $1,200 million with ABN Amro Bank N. V. : Barclays Capital: Citigroup Global Markets Limited: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc: Lloyds TSB Bank plc: Bank of America N. A. : and Morgan Stanley Bank.
The RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on February 20, 2012.
There were no borrowings under the RCF as of December 31, 2009.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the RCF for each interest period, is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin ranging from 0.40 to 0.80% per annum and LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Shire also pays a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35% per annum of the applicable margin.
Under the RCF it is required that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined within the Multicurrency Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement the RCF Agreement does not exceed 3.5 to 1 for either the 12 month period ending December 31 or June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive testing dates: ii the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the RCF Agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for either the 12 month period ending December 31 or June 30 and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 99 20 OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT During 2007 and 2009 Shire entered into certain multi-year leases for its HGT business unit at North Reading and Lexington, Massachusetts.
As Shire is considered, in substance, the owner of these properties over their construction period, Shire recorded an asset being the fair value of the building element at inception of the relevant lease of $7.1 million and $32.7 million in the year to December 31, 2009 and 2007 within Property, Plant and EquipmentAssets under construction and the corresponding building financing obligation is recorded within other long-term debt.
The land element of these leases has been accounted for as an operating lease.
Concurrent with entering into a new lease at its Lexington campus, Shire extended the term of certain other existing leases at its Lexington site, such that the terms of these existing leases become co-terminus with the expiration of the new Lexington lease.
This lease extension has been accounted for as a substantial modification of the existing building finance obligation, whereby the existing liability $45.1 million was fide-recognized and a building financing obligation based on the fair value of the liability under the revised lease terms $39.4 million was recorded in its place.
This substantial modification resulted in a non-cash gain of $5.7 million in the year to December 31, 2009 which has been recorded within Other income expense, net.
21 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Income taxes payable 170.4 220.4 Deferred revenue 20.0 29.5 Deferred rent 14.5 16.1 Insurance provisions 18.3 18.1 Other accrued liabilities 23.9 7.2 247.1 291.3 22 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Treasury policies and organization The Groups principal treasury operations are co-ordinated by its corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Board of Directors.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest rate exposure.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which interest is at floating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US dollar, Euro and Canadian dollar interest rates.
As the Group maintains all of its investments and foreign exchange contracts on a short-term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
In the year to December 31, 2009 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
The largest proportion of investments was in US dollar money market and liquidity funds.
The Group incurs interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% on Shire plcs $1,100 million in principal amount convertible bonds due 2014.
The building financing obligation of $46.7 million is also subject to a fixed interest rate over the lease term on the amount outstanding.
No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to December 31, 2009 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Group continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
Market risk of investments As at December 31, 2009 the Group has $105.7 million of investments comprising available-for-sale investments in publicly quoted companies $87.0 million, equity-method investments $14.8 million and cost method investments in private companies $3.9 million.
The investments in public quoted companies and equity-method investments, for certain investment funds which contain a mixed portfolio of public and private investments, are exposed to market risk.
No financial instruments or derivatives have been employed to hedge this risk.
Credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose Shire to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short-term cash investments, trade accounts receivable from product sales and from third-parties from which the Group receives royalties and derivative contracts.
Cash is invested in short-term money market instruments, including money market and liquidity funds and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in which Shire invests are all triple A rated by both Standard & Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Group is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which it enters into derivative contracts.
The Group aims to limit this exposure through a system of internal credit limits which require counterparties to have a long-term credit rating of A A2 or better from the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board of Directors and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to the derivative contracts are major international financial institutions.
The Groups revenues from product sales are mainly governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2009 there were two customers in the US who accounted for 51% of the Groups product sales.
However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered minimal.
The Group has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
100 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 22 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS continued Foreign exchange risk The Group trades in numerous countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposure.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Group are the US dollar, the Canadian dollar, Pounds sterling and the Euro.
It is the Groups policy that these exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where significant exposures remain, the Group uses foreign exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure in respect of balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly to inter-company financing and accruals for royalty receipts.
The Group utilizes these derivative instruments to manage currency risk on balance sheet foreign exchange exposures but the foreign exchange contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2009 the Group had 26 swap and forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
The swaps and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Group did not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
These foreign exchange contracts were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Fair value 2009 December 31, $M Assets Prepaid expenses and other current assets 5.4 Liabilities Other current liabilities 1.2 Net gains and losses both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classified in the consolidated statements of operations as follows: Amount of net loss gain recognized in income 2009 Year to December 31, Location of net loss gain recognized in income $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income expense, net 1.4 These net foreign exchange losses are offset within Other income expense by net foreign exchange gains arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
23 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis The following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 87.0 87.0 87.0 Foreign exchange contracts 5.4 5.4 5.4 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 1.2 1.2 1.2 1 Available-for-sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
Certain estimates and judgements were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Group would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Groups intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Available-for-sale securitiesthe fair values of available-for-sale securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
Foreign exchange contractsthe fair value of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts has been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash flows.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 101 23 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT continued Assets and liabilities that have been measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis after initial recognition As outlined in Note 20, the building financing obligation for leased property in Lexington, Massachusetts was substantially modified in the year to December 31, 2009, by extension of the term of the relevant underlying lease on July 31, 2009.
The existing liability of $45.1 million was fide-recognized, and a building financing obligation of $39.4 million was recorded, such liability measured using the fair value of the liability under the revised terms.
This extension of the term of the building finance obligation was treated as a substantial modification resulting in a gain of $5.7 million, which has been recorded within Other income expense, net.
The fair value of the building financing obligation was estimated based on the present value of the contractual cash flows under the revised lease and the estimated residual value of the property at the end of the lease term, such payments being discounted at a risk-free interest rate adjusted for Shires credit risk.
The fair value measurement falls within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because the estimate of Shires credit risk was based on a significant unobservable input.
Fair value at measurement date Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 $M $M $M $M Building financing obligation 39.4 39.4 Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as at December 31, 2009 and 2008 of the Groups financial assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value $M $M $M $M Financial assets: Option over Avexa shares 0.1 Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds 1,100.0 1,067.0 1,100.0 892.9 Building financing obligation 46.7 47.3 45.6 40.7 Certain estimates and judgements were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these amounts.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: i Option over Avexa sharesthe fair values of the Avexa shares are based on quoted market prices for the shares.
ii Convertible bondsthe fair value of Shire 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 is estimated by reference to the market price of the instrument as the convertible bonds are publicly traded.
iii Building financing obligationsthe fair value of building financing obligations are estimated based on the present value of future cash flows, and an estimate of the residual value of the underlying property at the end of the lease term, associated with these obligations.
102 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2009 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2010 31.1 2011 22.9 2012 20.3 2013 19.0 2014 18.8 Thereafter 101.2 213.3 i Operating leases The Group leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2027.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $35.5 million, $32.6 million and $28.0 million for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, which is predominately included in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.
b Letters of credit and guarantees At December 31, 2009 the Group had irrevocable standby letters of credit and guarantees with various banks in the amount of $15.1 million, providing security for the Groups performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
The Group has restricted cash of $9.2 million, as required by these letters of credit.
c Collaborative arrangements In-licensing arrangements i Research Collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform On August 24, 2009 Shire announced that it had entered into a research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the benefit of shortened target validation and proof of concept, potentially increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver pre-clinical LNA oligonucleotides for Shire-selected orphan disease targets, and Shire will have the exclusive right to further develop and commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire made an upfront payment of $6.5 million to Santaris, for technology access and R&D funding, which has been expensed to R&D.
Shire has remaining obligations to pay Santaris a further $13.5 million subject to certain success criteria, and development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $72 million for each indication.
Shire will also pay single or double digit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
Shire and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to monitor R&D activities through pre-clinical Lead Candidate selection at which point all development and commercialization costs will be the responsibility of Shire.
ii JUVISTA On June 19, 2007 Shire signed an agreement with Renovo Limited Renovo to develop and commercialize JUVISTA, Renovos novel drug candidate being investigated for the reduction of scarring in connection with surgery.
Renovo has commenced its first pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial in Europe.
Under the terms of the agreement, Shire has the exclusive right to commercialize JUVISTA worldwide, with the exception of the EU member states.
Shire has remaining obligations to pay Renovo $25 million on the filing of JUVISTA with the FDA: up to $150 million on FDA approval: royalties on net sales of JUVISTA: and up to $525 million on the achievement of very significant sales targets.
Shire paid Renovo $75 million, which was expensed as R&D in 2007, and made an equity investment in Renovo Group plc of $50 million.
Shire will bear the cost of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining US regulatory approval.
Renovo will bear the costs of clinical trials designed specifically for obtaining EU regulatory approval.
Shire and Renovo will share equally the costs of conducting clinical trials that are designed for obtaining both US and EU regulatory approvals.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire made payments to Renovo of $3.9 million 2008: $7.4 million, 2007: $1.9 million which has been charged by Shire to R&D.
iii Alba Therapeutics Corporation Alba Shire acquired worldwide rights from Alba to SPD 550, also known as AT-1001, in markets outside of the US and Japan in December 2007.
Shire paid an upfront fee of $25 million, which was expensed to R&D in 2007.
Alba funded all development until proof of concept was completed, after which Shire and Alba equally shared development costs under a joint development plan.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire paid $nil for reimbursement of shared development costs 2008: $0.5 million: 2007: $nil.
On November 15, 2009 following the review of Phase 2 data, Shire terminated the collaboration agreement and returned the rights to SPD 550 to Alba.
iv Amicus collaboration for the development of pharmacological chaperones On November 7, 2007 Shire licensed from Amicus the rights to three pharmacological chaperone compounds in markets outside of the US: AMIGAL HGT-3310 for Fabry disease, PLICERA HGT-3410 for Gaucher disease and HGT-3510 formerly referred to as AT2220 for Pompe disease which were in clinical development.
Shire paid Amicus an upfront fee of $50 million, which was expensed to R&D in 2007.
On October 29, 2009, Shire and Amicus mutually agreed to terminate the collaboration and to return all rights for the three products to Amicus.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 103 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued v Womens Health Products In August 2006, Shire and Duramed entered into an agreement related to certain Collaboration Products.
Under this agreement, Shire was required to reimburse Duramed for US development expenses incurred in respect of the Collaboration Products up to a maximum of $140 million over eight years from September 2006, and Shire had the right to commercialize these products in a number of markets outside of North America, including the larger European markets.
US development expenses reimbursed in the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 totaled $30.0 million and $15.9 million respectively.
On February 24, 2009 Shire and Duramed amended this agreement and it terminated on December 31, 2009.
For further information on this amendment see Note 5.
Out-licensing arrangements Shire has entered into various collaborative arrangements under which Shire has out-licensed certain product or intellectual property rights for consideration such as upfront payments, development milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
In certain of these arrangements Shire and the licensee are both actively involved in the development and commercialization of the licensed product and have exposure to risks and rewards dependent on its commercial success.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire received milestone payments totaling $4.0 million 2008: $9.0 million, 2007: $10.0 million and these payments will be recognized in Other revenues.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Shire also recognized milestone income of $8.8 million 2008: $4.2 million, 2007: $1.9 million within Other revenues and Product sales of $29.4 million 2008: $24.3 million, 2007: $2.3 million for shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
Co-promotion agreements i VYVANSE On March 31, 2009 Shire announced a co-promotion agreement with GSK for VYVANSE with the aim of improving recognition and treatment of ADHD in adults.
The three-year agreement covers the United States and will more than double the reach and frequency of the current sales effort for VYVANSE.
The agreement is based on profit sharing above an agreed upon baseline and these profit share payments will be included within Selling, general and administrative costs.
ii LIALDA In the first quarter of 2009 Shire terminated the agreement with Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc. successor to TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. relating to the co-promotion of LIALDA in the US.
d Commitments i Clinical testing At December 31, 2009 the Group had committed to pay approximately $183.9 million 2008: $99.5 million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
The Group expects to pay $104.1 million of these commitments in 2010 2008: $40.7 million in 2009.
However, the timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
ii Contract manufacturing At December 31, 2009 the Group had committed to pay approximately $152.3 million 2008: $67.0 million in respect of contract manufacturing.
The Group expects to pay $77.3 million of these commitments in 2010 2008: $66.9 million in 2009. iii Purchase, service and marketing commitments At December 31, 2009 the Group had committed to pay approximately $22.9 million 2008: $42.6 million for future purchases and services, predominantly relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing and IT out-sourcing.
The Group expects to pay $21.0 million of these commitments in 2010 2008: $42.4 million in 2009. iv Investment commitments At December 31, 2009 the Group had outstanding commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and partnerships for amounts totaling $5.4 million 2008: $5.7 million which may all be payable in 2010, depending on the timing of capital calls.
v Capital commitments At December 31, 2009 the Group had committed to spend $41.4 million 2008: $95.4 million on capital projects.
This includes commitments for the expansion and modification of its offices in its HGT campus in Lexington, Massachusetts.
vi Legal proceedings General The Group recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
These estimates are developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known and the estimates are refined in each accounting period in light of additional information becoming known.
In instances where the Group is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no litigation loss is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known a loss provision is set up when a reasonable estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
Any outcome upon settlement that deviates from the Groups estimate may result in an additional expense in a future accounting period.
At December 31, 2009 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $20.1 million 2008: $20.8 million.
104 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 24 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES continued Specific CARBATROL i Nostrum In August 2003, the Group was notified that Nostrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Nostrum had submitted an abbreviated new drug application ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market its generic version of the 300mg strength of CARBATROL Nostrums ANDA product prior to the expiration date of the Groups Orange Book listed patents for CARBATROL, US patent No.
5,912,013 the 013 Patent and US patent No.
On September 18, 2003, Shire filed suit against Nostrum in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA product.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there was a 30 month stay of approval of Nostrums ANDA product which expired in February 2006.
Nostrum could be in a position to market its 300mg extended-release carbamazepine product upon FDA final approval of its ANDA.
On January 23, 2004 the Group amended the complaint to drop the allegations with respect to the 013 Patent while maintaining the suit with respect to the 570 Patent.
On July 17, 2006 the court entered an order staying discovery.
In May 2008, the Group was notified that Nostrum had submitted an amendment to the above referenced ANDA seeking permission to market its generic versions of the 100mg and 200mg strengths of CARBATROL prior to the expiration date of the Groups 013 and 570 Patents.
On July 2, 2008 Shire filed suit against Nostrum in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement of these two patents by Nostrums ANDA and ANDA products.
Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, there is a 30 month stay with respect to Nostrums 100mg and 200mg ANDA products which will expire in November 2010.
This case was referenced as related to the earlier filed case on Nostrums 300 mg product and has been assigned to the same Judge as the earlier ongoing case.
In a December 15, 2008 decision the court decided that the two cases should proceed separately.
No discovery schedule or trial date has been set for either case.
ii Corepharma LLC, Teva, Apotex Corp. and Apotex Pharmaceutical Holdings, Inc. collectively Apotex and Actavis South Atlantic LLC During the course of 2009, Shire settled lawsuits with each of Corepharma, Teva, Apotex and Actavis South Atlantic LLC relating to their respective ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of CARBATROL.
No payments to these companies are involved in the settlements.
As required by law, the Group has submitted to the US Federal Trade Commission and the US Department of Justice all of the agreements entered into as part of these settlements.
ADDERALL XR i Sandoz During the course of 2009, Shire settled its lawsuit with Sandoz relating to its ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of ADDERALL XR.
No payments to Sandoz are involved in the settlement.
As required by law, the Group has submitted to the US Federal Trade Commission and the US Department of Justice all of the agreements entered into as part of this settlement.
ii Teva On October 19, 2009 Teva filed suit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against Shire claiming that Shire was in breach of its supply contract for the authorized generic version of ADDERALL XR.
Shire has been supplying Teva with authorized generic ADDERALL XR since April 1, 2009.
Shires ability to supply this product, however, is limited by quota restrictions that the US Drug Enforcement Administration DEA places on amphetamine, which is the products active ingredient.
After the lawsuit was filed, DEA granted Shire additional quota for 2009, allowing Shire to supply Teva with additional product.
On December 2, 2009 Shire announced that Teva has dismissed its lawsuit, including Tevas claims for monetary damages, specific performance and equitable relief.
No consideration was exchanged by the parties as part of the settlement.
REMINYL Generics UK Limited Generics UK commenced an action in 2007 against the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency MHRA seeking judicial review of the MHRAs application of data exclusivity for REMINYL and the MHRAs corresponding refusal to grant Generics UK a marketing authorization for a generic version of REMINYL.
This case was referred to the European Court of Justice ECJ which decided the case in favor of the MHRA and upheld data exclusivity for REMINYL until March 2010.
In separate proceedings, Generics UK commenced an action in the UK seeking a declaration to nullify the Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC for EP 236684 the patent that claims the use of galantamine for the treatment of Alzheimers disease.
This case was heard in December 2008, and the courts decision upholding the SPC which extends the patents term to January 2012 was handed down on May 20, 2009.
Generics UKs appeal of that decision was heard on October 14, 2009 the result of which was that the case was referred to the ECJ.
FOSRENOL In February 2009 Shire was notified that three separate ANDAs were submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market generic versions of 500mg, 750mg and 1,000mg strengths of FOSRENOL.
The notices were received from Barr Laboratories, Inc. Barr, Mylan, Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Matrix Laboratories, Inc. collectively Mylan and Natco Pharma Limited Natco and related to ANDAs for generic versions of 500mg, 750mg and 1,000mg FOSRENOL.
Within the requisite 45 day period, Shire filed lawsuits in the US District Court of the Southern District of New York against each of Barr, Mylan and Natco for infringement of certain of Shires FOSRENOL patents.
The filing of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of these ANDAs for up to 30 months.
The lawsuits have been consolidated into a single case.
A Markman hearing is scheduled to occur on May 5, 2010.
No trial date has been set.
VYVANSE On February 24, 2009 Actavis Elizabeth LLC brought a lawsuit against the FDA seeking to overturn the FDAs decision granting new chemical entity exclusivity to VYVANSE.
Shire has intervened in the lawsuit.
On October 23, 2009, following a period for public comment, the FDA issued a letter setting forth its analysis of the legal and regulatory issues and reaffirming its decision that VYVANSE is entitled to new chemical entity exclusivity.
A hearing on cross-motions for summary judgement was held on February 17, 2010.
No rulings on the cross-motions were made at the hearing.
Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE On September 23, 2009 the Group received a subpoena from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General in co-ordination with the US Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania seeking production of documents related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE.
The Group is co-operating with this investigation.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 105 25 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2009 was 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
On February 20, 2007 the Group raised $877.3 million, net of associated issue costs, through the private placement of 42.9 million new ordinary shares to certain institutional investors at a price of 1075 pence per share.
The newly issued shares represented approximately 8.4% of Shire plcs issued ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
Dividends Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of dividends from its accumulated profits and other distributable reserves.
At December 31, 2009 Shire plcs distributable reserves were approximately $3.7 billion.
Treasury stock The Group records the purchase of its own shares by the ESOT as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
At December 31, 2009, the ESOT held 5.8 million Ordinary Shares 2008: 7.3 million: 2007: 8.5 million and 4.0 million ADSs 2008: 4.5 million: 2007: 1.8 million.
During the year to December 31, 2009 a total of 0.1 million 2008: 0.2 million: 2007: 3.0 million Ordinary Shares and 0.02 million 2008: 2.8 million: 2007: 1.8 million ADSs had been purchased for total consideration of $1.0 million 2008: $146.6 million: 2007: $186.0 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust Shire has put into place the IAS Trust which enables Shire ordinary shareholders, other than Shire ADS holders, to elect to receive their dividends either from a company resident for tax purposes in the Republic of Ireland from a Shire group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share to the IAS Trust which is held by the income access share trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: i If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on the Shire Ordinary Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the income access share trustee, and such amount is paid by the income access share trustee to the Shire ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire to such Shire ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such Shire ordinary shareholders by the income access share trustee.
ii If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the income access share trustee to the Shire ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire on the Shire Ordinary Shares, Shire will be obliged to pay a dividend on the Shire Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Shire Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
iii A Shire ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that he will receive his dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire under these arrangements from Old Shire.
iv A Shire ordinary shareholder who held 25,000 or fewer Shire Ordinary Shares at the time he became a Shire ordinary shareholder pursuant to the court sanctioned Scheme of Arrangement, and who did not make a contrary election, is deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire articles of association such that he will receive his dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of Shire ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not under current legislation be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of Shire ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements, he must withdraw his Shire Ordinary Shares from the Shire ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him to receive dividends from Shire if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the income access share trustee for the benefit of all Shire ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what would have been such Shire ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire in the absence of the income access share election.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the Shire ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access share will be allocated pro-rata among the Shire Ordinary shareholders and Shire will pay the balance by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire will not compensate those Shire ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any time, in which case the full Shire dividend will be paid directly by Shire to those Shire ordinary shareholders including the Depositary who have made or are deemed to have made an income access share election.
In the year to December 31, 2009 Old Shire paid dividends totaling $45.9 million 2008: $7.2 million on the income access share to the income access share trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire.
106 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 25 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY continued Exchangeable shares On February 12, 2008 a subsidiary of Shire exercised a redemption call right and purchased all remaining exchangeable shares of Shire Acquisition Inc. in public ownership.
Exchangeable shareholders received either three Ordinary Shares of Shire plc or one Shire ADS representing three Ordinary Shares of Shire plc for each Exchangeable Share held.
Exchangeable Shares were issued to Canadian resident shareholders of Biochem Pharma Inc. now Shire Canada, Inc. in 2001 as consideration for the acquisition by the Shire group of Biochem Pharma Inc.
The Exchangeable Shares were delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange during 2008.
26 EARNINGS PER SHARE The following table reconciles net income loss attributable to Shire plc and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: Year to December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Amounts attributable to Shire plc shareholders $M $M $M Income loss from continuing operations, net of taxes 503.8 170.0 1,451.8 Loss from discontinued operations 12.4 17.6 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries 0.2 3.6 1 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share 491.6 156.0 1,451.8 Weighted average number of shares: Millions Millions Millions 2 Basic 540.7 541.6 540.3 Effect of dilutive shares: 3 Stock based awards to employees 7.3 3.8 Diluted 548.0 545.4 540.3 1 For the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 interest on the convertible bonds has not been added back as the effect would be anti-dilutive.
2 Excludes shares purchased by the ESOT and presented by the Group as treasury stock.
3 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
Year to December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Earnings loss per Ordinary Sharebasic Earnings loss from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 93.2 32.1 268.7 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.3 3.3 Earnings loss per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersbasic 90.9 28.8 268.7 Earnings loss per Ordinary Sharediluted Earnings loss from continuing operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 91.9 31.8 268.7 Loss from discontinued operations attributable to Shire plc shareholders 2.2 3.2 Earnings loss per Ordinary Share attributable to Shire plc shareholdersdiluted 89.7 28.6 268.7 The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2009 2 3 2008 2 3 2007 1 Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares Millions Millions Millions Share options in the money 8.4 Share options out of the money 16.4 17.3 2.9 Warrants 0.3 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.1 32.7 21.2 1 In 2007 all share options, warrants and the number of Ordinary Shares underlying the convertible bonds were excluded from the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares, because the Group made a net loss during the calculation period and the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
2 In 2009 and 2008 the convertible bonds were not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares, because their effect would be anti-dilutive in the period.
3 In 2009 and 2008 certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 107 27 SEGMENTAL REPORTING Shires internal financial reporting is in line with its business unit and management reporting structure based on two segments: Specialty Pharmaceuticals which aggregates ADHD, GI and other Specialty Pharmaceutical products and HGT.
The Specialty Pharmaceuticals and HGT reportable segments represent the Groups revenues and costs in respect of currently promoted and sold products, together with the costs of developing projects for future commercialization.
All Other has been included in the table below in order to reconcile the two operating segments to the total consolidated figures.
The Group evaluates performance based on revenue and operating income.
The Group does not have inter-segment transactions.
Assets that are directly attributable or allocable to the segments have been separately disclosed.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All Other Total 2009 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,138.2 555.5 2,693.7 Royalties 127.2 165.3 292.5 Other revenues 9.9 2.6 9.0 21.5 Total revenues 2,275.3 558.1 174.3 3,007.7 1 2 Cost of product sales 299.3 88.7 388.0 1 2 Research and development 375.0 257.2 6.1 638.3 1 2 Selling, general and administrative 954.4 208.7 179.5 1,342.6 Gain on sale of product rights 6.3 6.3 IPR&D charge 1.6 1.6 Reorganization costs 12.7 12.7 Integration and acquisition costs 2.9 7.7 10.6 Total operating expenses 1,638.0 563.9 185.6 2,387.5 Operating income loss 637.3 5.8 11.3 620.2 Total assets 2,067.1 1,576.1 974.3 4,617.5 3 Long-lived assets 202.6 422.4 55.6 680.6 3 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 46.9 194.4 18.0 259.3 1 Stock-based compensation of $65.7 million is included in: Cost of product sales $4.4 million, Research and development $20.1 million and Selling, general and administrative $41.2 million.
2 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $21.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $15.5 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation and amortization $204.7 million is included in Selling, general and administrative.
3 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments, income tax receivable and financial instruments.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All Other Total 2008 $M $M $M $M Product sales 2,272.5 481.7 2,754.2 Royalties 1.5 244.0 245.5 Other revenues 8.2 4.0 10.3 22.5 Total revenues 2,282.2 485.7 254.3 3,022.2 1 2 Cost of product sales 329.0 58.9 20.1 408.0 1 2 Research and development 288.0 200.3 6.0 494.3 1 2 Selling, general and administrative 1,118.5 172.7 164.0 1,455.2 In-process R&D charge 263.1 263.1 Gain on sale of product rights 20.7 20.7 Integration and acquisition costs 10.3 10.3 Total operating expenses 1,714.8 695.0 200.4 2,610.2 Operating income loss 567.4 209.3 53.9 412.0 Total assets 2,161.2 1,107.7 664.8 3,933.7 3 Long-lived assets 192.2 263.5 82.1 537.8 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 54.1 169.5 30.6 254.2 1 Stock-based compensation of $65.2 million is included in: Cost of product sales $3.9 million, Research and development $18.9 million and Selling, general and administrative $42.4 million.
2 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $16.2 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.7 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $12.5 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $271.9 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
3 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments.
108 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 27 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Specialty Pharmaceuticals HGT All Other Total 2007 $M $M $M $M Product sales 1,844.5 325.7 2,170.2 Royalties 1.6 245.6 247.2 Other revenues 9.5 4.3 5.1 18.9 Total revenues 1,855.6 330.0 250.7 2,436.3 1 2 Cost of product sales 263.3 44.3 12.7 320.3 1 2 Research and development 331.1 213.5 544.6 1 2 Selling, general and administrative 895.5 125.0 190.1 1,210.6 In-process R&D charge 1,866.4 1,866.4 Gain on sale of product rights 127.8 127.8 Integration and acquisition costs 1.3 1.3 Total operating expenses 3,229.8 382.8 202.8 3,815.4 Operating loss income 1,374.2 52.8 47.9 1,379.1 Total assets 2,394.5 586.6 1,349.0 4,330.1 3 Long-lived assets 174.8 114.6 79.2 368.6 3 Capital expenditure on long-lived assets 37.3 77.5 27.9 142.7 1 Stock-based compensation of $75.2 million is included in: Cost of product sales $5.5 million, Research and development $17.0 million and Selling, general and administrative $52.7 million.
2 Depreciation from manufacturing plants $11.8 million and amortization of favorable manufacturing contracts $1.2 million is included in Cost of product sales: depreciation of research and development assets $11.3 million is included in Research and development: and all other depreciation, amortization and intangible asset impairment charges $137.1 million are included in Selling, general and administrative.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2009 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 19.5 17.8 16.2 United Kingdom 163.9 160.0 177.0 North America 2,141.3 2,299.6 1,798.2 Rest of World 683.0 544.8 444.9 Total revenues 3,007.7 3,022.2 2,436.3 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise: 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M Republic of Ireland 0.7 1.0 United Kingdom 79.5 61.6 North America 593.5 468.6 Rest of World 6.9 6.6 Total 680.6 537.8 Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, all within the Specialty Pharmaceuticals operating segment, accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues: 2009 2009 2008 2008 2007 2007 Year to December 31, $M % revenue $M % revenue $M % revenue Cardinal Health Inc. 797.0 27 888.7 29 666.1 27 McKesson Corp. 576.3 19 674.3 22 546.0 22 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M Cardinal Health Inc. 113.0 72.3 McKesson Corp. 82.9 69.6 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 109 27 SEGMENTAL REPORTING continued Revenue by product In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 $M $M $M SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS ADDERALL XR 626.5 1,101.7 1,030.9 VYVANSE 504.7 318.9 76.5 DAYTRANA 71.0 78.7 64.2 EQUASYM 22.8 INTUNIV 5.4 PENTASA 214.8 185.5 176.4 LIALDA MEZAVANT 235.9 140.4 50.5 FOSRENOL 184.4 155.4 102.2 CALCICHEW 43.7 52.8 54.2 CARBATROL 82.4 75.9 72.3 REMINYL REMINYL XL 42.4 34.4 31.2 XAGRID 84.8 78.7 66.8 Other 19.4 50.1 119.3 2,138.2 2,272.5 1,844.5 HUMAN GENETIC THERAPIES ELAPRASE 353.1 305.1 181.8 REPLAGAL 193.8 176.1 143.9 FIRAZYR 6.1 0.5 VPRIV 2.5 555.5 481.7 325.7 2,693.7 2,754.2 2,170.2 28 INTEREST EXPENSE Interest expense for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $39.8 million, $139.0 million and $70.8 million respectively.
Interest expense primarily includes interest on Shires convertible bond of $33.3 million 2008: $33.3 million: 2007: $18.3 million.
Interest expense for the year to December 31, 2008 included $87.3 million 2009: $nil and 2007: $28.0 million in respect to the TKT appraisal rights litigation.
On November 5, 2008 Shire successfully settled all aspects of this litigation with all parties.
The Delaware Chancery Court approved dismissal of the case and Shire made payment to the dissenting shareholders on November 7, 2008.
The settlement represented a total payment of $567.5 million, representing consideration at $37 per share of $419.9 million and an interest cost of $147.6 million.
Under current law, although not applicable in this case because the merger was entered into before the relevant amendment to the law became effective the court presumptively awarded interest in appraisal rights cases at a statutory rate that is five percentage points above the Federal Reserve discount rate as it varies over the duration of the case.
Based on the settlement, the Group amended the method of determining its interest provision to reflect this revised manner of resolution and upon reaching settlement with the dissenting shareholders recorded an additional interest expense of $73.0 million in its consolidated financial statements for the year to December 31, 2008.
110 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 29 OTHER INCOME EXPENSE, NET 2009 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Impairment of non-current investments see Note 13 0.8 58.0 3.0 GeneChem Funds management fee 1.9 3.6 Gain on sale of non-current investment see Note 13 55.2 9.4 0.1 Gain on substantial modification of building finance obligation see Note 20 5.7 Foreign exchange 2.3 14.1 0.8 Other 1.7 0.3 1.3 60.7 32.9 1.2 30 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Groups contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Group contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totaled $27.9 million, $26.3 million and $22.3 million for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
31 TAXATION The components of pre-tax income loss from continuing operations are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Republic of Ireland 232.3 83.5 99.5 UK 62.8 39.2 94.7 US 552.2 238.7 27.6 IPR&D 1.6 263.1 1,866.4 Other jurisdictions 261.9 334.3 445.5 643.0 265.6 1,398.1 The provision benefit for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, consisted of the following: 2009 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Current income taxes: Republic of Ireland 0.2 US federal tax 154.3 12.0 84.5 US state and local taxes 14.4 6.4 4.9 UK corporation tax 0.3 20.3 Other 16.8 10.8 24.8 Total current taxes 185.5 7.9 134.7 Deferred taxes: Republic of Ireland 1.0 1.3 9.1 US federal tax 24.5 75.2 91.4 US state and local taxes 32.2 17.2 5.2 UK corporation tax 6.1 29.8 14.4 Other 4.6 3.6 6.1 Total deferred taxes 47.0 90.1 79.2 1 Total income taxes 138.5 98.0 55.5 1 Total income taxes relate solely to continuing operations as there is no tax provision benefit relating to discontinued operations for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 111 31 TAXATION continued The reconciliation of income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings of equity-method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2009 2008 2007 Year to December 31, $M $M $M Income loss from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity-method investees 643.0 265.6 1,398.1 1 2 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 30.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductible items: IPR&D 12.1% 40.0% Other permanent differences: US Research and development credit 5.2% 9.1% 2.0% Effect of the convertible bond 2.0% 5.0% 0.5% 3 Intangible asset amortization 0.1% 6.5% 1.5% Disposals not subject to tax 2.2% 4 Intra-group items 11.8% 6.2% 0.6% Other permanent items 2.2% 1.4% 0.2% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 1.3% 12.4% 0.3% Difference in taxation rates 8.5% 3.1% 1.3% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 2.3% 1.9% 2.7% Prior year adjustment 2.7% 9.2% 0.8% Change in tax rates 1.9% 0.2% 0.5% Other 2.1% 4.8% 0.2% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 21.5% 36.9% 4.0% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25% 2007: UK Corporation tax rate of 30%, in 2009 the Group is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Group operates, including: Canada 19.5% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Malta 35% : the Netherlands 25.5% : Spain 30% : Sweden 28% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 28.5% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the headline federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Group in each territory.
2 During 2008 Shire introduced a new holding company resident in the Republic of Ireland, as a result the reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings of equity-method investees for the year to December 31, 2008 has been prepared using the Irish non-trading corporation tax rate of 25% which is the rate applicable to Shire plc.
In 2007 the reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings of equity-method investees was prepared using the UK corporation tax rate of 30%.
3 The permanent difference results from tax deductible amortization available following inter-company asset transfers for which the recognition of a deferred tax asset is prohibited.
4 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of inter-company dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Groups consolidated income loss from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings of equity-method investees.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions 1 The Group files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Group is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Groups tax returns for fiscal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 $M $M $M Balance at January 1 228.7 292.2 234.4 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 4.2 30.5 25.6 Reductions based on tax positions taken in the current year 0.2 12.5 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 25.2 3.9 51.7 1 Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years 19.4 17.4 10.4 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 16.1 16.6 Reductions as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 13.8 38.3 2 Foreign currency translation adjustments 31.6 50.1 41.7 3 Balance at December 31 254.0 228.7 292.2 1 Included within this amount is $nil 2008: increase of $3.2 million, 2007: a reduction of $4.0 million which affected the purchase price allocation of New River.
2 Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income.
3 The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
112 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 31 TAXATION continued The Group considers it reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2009 could decrease by approximately $17 million in the next twelve months as a result of the conclusion of audits currently being conducted by various tax authorities.
While tax audits remain open, the Group also considers it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, however an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
These payments have been offset against the income tax liability within the balance sheet but have not reduced the provision for unrecognized tax benefits.
The Group recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Group recognized $21.3 million, $26.1 million and $18.0 million in interest and penalties and the Group had a liability of $111.5 million and $76.2 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, are as follows: December December 31, 2009 31, 2008 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 24.6 9.1 Inventory and warranty provisions 28.4 26.4 Losses carried forward including tax credits 278.5 295.0 Provisions for product returns and doubtful accounts 66.9 54.7 Restructuring 1.5 2.0 Intangible assets 17.8 17.7 Share-based compensation 45.0 38.7 Excess of tax value over book value of assets 26.4 8.7 Other 26.1 19.4 Gross deferred tax assets 515.2 471.7 Less: valuation allowance 149.2 119.3 366.0 352.4 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 448.4 503.7 Net deferred tax liabilities 82.4 151.3 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assetscurrent 135.8 89.5 Deferred tax assetsnon-current 79.0 118.1 Deferred tax liabilitiescurrent 2.9 10.9 Deferred tax  294.3 348.0 82.4 151.3 During the year to December 31, 2009 the net deferred tax liability has decreased primarily as a result of: a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets acquired through business combinations: the benefit of a change in the effective State tax rate following a change in Massachusetts state tax law on the net state deferred tax balances: and increases in the excess of tax over book value following the capitalization of R&D payments for tax purposes.
At December 31, 2009, the Group had a valuation allowance of $149.2 million 2008: $119.3 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards in Republic of Ireland 2009: $56.3 million, 2008 $42.0 million : the US 2009: $40.6 million, 2008: $65.5 million : Germany 2009: $24.2 million, 2008: $nil : and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2009: $28.1 million, 2008: $11.8 million.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $29.9 million is principally due to an increase of $40.2 million and $20.7 million in respect of losses and other temporary differences in European jurisdictions and US affiliates outside the Groups US consolidated tax group, respectively, as the Groups management considers that there is insufficient future taxable income, taxable temporary differences and feasible tax-planning strategies to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets would not be realized.
This increase is partially offset by a decrease in valuation allowances relating to state tax credits and loss carry forwards of $31.2 million following Massachusetts state tax changes in 2009.
At December 31, 2009, based upon a consideration in combination of the profit history of the relevant affiliates, projections of future taxable income over the periods in which temporary differences are anticipated to reverse, any restrictions on uses of loss carryforwards and prudent and feasible taxplanning strategies, management believes it is more likely than not that the Group will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in future periods.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 113 31 TAXATION continued The approximate NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2009 2008 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 31.2 US state tax NOLs 57.0 94.2 UK NOLs 103.3 114.0 Republic of Ireland NOLs 319.9 238.4 Foreign tax jurisdictions 168.4 88.7 R&D tax credits 124.6 208.1 Capital losses 27.3 The NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2009 $M Within 1 year 10.1 Within 1 to 2 years 4.3 Within 2 to 3 years 2.9 Within 3 to 4 years Within 4 to 5 years 0.3 Within 5 to 6 years 1.7 After 6 years 362.0 Indefinitely 423.1 At December 31, 2009 the Group had not recorded deferred taxes on approximately $6.2 billion 2008: $3.7 billion of un-remitted earnings of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2009 these earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested overseas.
It is not practical to compute the estimated deferred tax liability on these earnings.
32 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS The Group measures share-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and recognizes the expense over the employee requisite service period.
The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the consolidated statements of operations: 2009 2008 2007 $M $M $M Cost of product sales 4.4 3.9 5.5 Research and development 20.1 18.9 17.0 Selling, general and administrative 41.2 42.4 52.7 Total 65.7 65.2 75.2 Less tax 19.4 15.3 11.7 46.3 49.9 63.5 There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2009 and 2008.
At December 31, 2009 $74.3 million 2008: $83.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards, is expected to be recognized over a period of five years.
At December 31, 2009 $52.5 million 2008: $40.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in the money awards, is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years 2008: 1.9 years.
The total fair value of in the money share and share option awards at December 31, 2009 was $24.9 million 2008: $34.4 million.
114 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 32 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Share-based compensation plans The Group grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B.
Prior to 2005, awards were made under legacy plans.
The Group also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2009: Expiration Compensation Number of period from type awards date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share PlanPart A SARs 29,105,047 5 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme 6 months Stock options 345,614 after vesting 3 or 5 years Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 705,469 On vesting date 1 to 5 months Legacy Plans Stock options 4,226,803 7 to 10 years 310 years, subject to performance criteria Stock-settled SARs and stock options 34,382,933 Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance share awards 5,209,621 3 years 3 years, subject to performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 5,209,621 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Stock settled SARs and stock options a Portfolio Share PlanPart A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share PlanPart A are exercisable subject to certain market and service criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors market conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting of awards made to Executive Directors will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of the award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance 1 is achieved, 33 3% of stock-settled share appreciation rights will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not subject to market conditions, and are only subject to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 27 months.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 115 32 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued d Legacy plansprincipally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Groups share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a fixed growth rate.
At December 31, 2009 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Groups SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2009 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Weighted average Number of Intrinsic exercise price shares Value Year to December 31, 2009 M Outstanding as at beginning of period 8.27 35,462,015 Granted 9.10 8,385,348 Exercised 6.75 6,944,361 Expired 9.15 2,520,069 Outstanding as at end of period 8.72 34,382,933 30.7 Exercisable as at end of period 7.76 9,517,341 19.9 The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2009 was 2.35.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2009 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining exercise price Number exercise price Exercise contractual of options of options of options prices term outstanding exercisable exercisable Number of options outstanding Years 2,670,782 3.386.00 4.6 5.20 2,670,782 5.20 28,829,467 6.0111.00 2.9 9.40 6,157,905 8.30 2,882,684 11.0114.30 2.7 12.00 688,654 12.60 34,382,933 9,517,341 Performance shares Portfolio Share PlanPart B Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Portfolio Share PlanPart B are exercisable subject to certain market based and service criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance conditions will be based on relative total shareholder return.
Vesting will depend on relative total shareholder return performance against two comparator groups.
For one-third of an award, the comparator group will be the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 constituents excluding financial institutions and for two-thirds of the award the comparator group will be a group of international companies from the pharmaceutical sector.
In addition, before awards granted to Executive Directors will vest, the Committee 1 must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to justify this.
Where median performance is achieved, 33 3% of performance shares will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting at upper quartile performance.
Awards granted to employees below executive director level are not subject to market conditions, and are only subject to service conditions.
A summary of the status of the Groups performance share awards as at December 31, 2009 and of the related transactions during the periods then ended is presented below: Aggregate Weighted Number intrinsic value average Performance share awards of shares M remaining life Outstanding as at beginning of period 3,232,727 Granted 2,749,533 Exercised 588,233 Forfeited 184,406 Outstanding as at end of period 5,209,621 50.4 1.6 Exercisable as at end of period n a n a The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 2009 is 8.83.
116 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 32 SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS continued Exercises of employee share-based awards The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the years to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $43.8 million, $23.8 million and $67.9 million, respectively.
The total cash received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $14.6 million, $11.4 million and $30.4 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the excess tax benefit deficit credited charged to additional paid-in capital for the period to December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $16.8 million credit, $3.8 million charge and $nil respectively.
The Group will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed common shares or with shares held in an ESOT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the ESOT during 2010 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2009 the ESOT held 5.8 million Ordinary Shares and 4.0 million ADSs.
Valuation methodologies The Group estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of share-based awards include the grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the Groups share, the risk-free rate and the Groups dividend yield.
The Group believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Group under guidance issued by the FASB on share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: Period ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.52.7% 1.35.3% 3.45.35% Expected dividend yield 00.7% 00.5% 00.5% Expected life 34 years 34 years 34 years Weighted average volatility 33% 29% 27% Forfeiture rate 5% 5% 5% 1 Risk free interest rate is for UK and US grants.
The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: risk-free interest ratefor awards granted over ADSs, the US Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: expected dividend yieldmeasured as the average annualized dividend estimated to be paid by the Group over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: expected lifeestimated based on the the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and post-vesting employment termination behavior: weighted average expected volatilitymeasured using historical daily price changes of the Groups share price over the respective expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award: and the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
33 RESTATEMENT OF PREVIOUSLY ISSUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsequent to the issuance of the Groups financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, the Groups management determined that its non-current deferred tax liabilities were overstated by $29 million, following a misstatement in computing the temporary difference between the tax and book value of its other intangible assets.
The Group has corrected this misstatement by restating its previously issued financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
This prior period adjustment does not affect the Groups net income loss or earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
The effect of correcting this misstatement has increased retained earnings at January 1, 2007 by $29 million and has reduced non-current deferred tax liabilities by a corresponding amount.
The restatement does not affect the Groups net income loss or cash flows in either of the years to December 31, 2008 or 2007.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 117 34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% beneficially owned directly or indirectly and are all included in the consolidated financial statements.
Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada Pharma International Insurance Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Acquisition Inc. Canada Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland No.
2 Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Canada Inc. Canada Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development Inc. United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece Shire Holdings AG Switzerland Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Inc. United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Farmaceutica Ltda Brazil Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom 118 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In millions of US dollars, except where indicated 34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory Inc. United States Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire US Holdings Inc. United States Shire US Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing Inc. United States Tanaud International BV Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Republic of Ireland TKT Argentina srl Argentina Jerini AG Germany Jerini US, Inc. United States JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Beteiligungen GmbH Germany Jerini Holding Limited Malta Jerini Trading Limited Malta 35 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The ACR Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the ACR Committee: 2009 2008 Year to December 31, $M $M 1 Audit fees 3.4 4.5 2 Audit-related fees 0.2 0.4 3 Tax fees 0.3 0.5 4 All other fees 0.2 Total fees 3.9 5.6 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Groups auditors can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Audit related fees consist of work generally only the Groups auditors can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
3 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
4 All other fees in 2008 relate to independent advice provided to the remuneration committee on executive remuneration.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee related to the structure, form and operation of incentives for employees, including the provision of benchmark data against comparable companies.
Neither this assistance to the Remuneration Committee, nor any other non-audit work performed by the Groups auditors, Deloitte LLP, involved Deloitte LLP acting, temporarily or permanently, as a Director, officer, or employee of Shire, or performing any decision-making, supervisory, or ongoing monitoring functions.
36 AGGREGATE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors including the value of the exercise of options, SAR Awards and vesting of PSA Awards: 2009 2008 $000 $000 Emoluments 5,508 6,609 Money purchase pension contributions 674 696 Sub-total of annual emoluments 6,182 7,305 1 Other income arising from release exercise of long-term incentives Gains on exercise of share options and SAR Awards and release of PSA Awards 22,448 304 Gains on the release of LTIP Awards 1,904 2,530 2 Total emoluments and other income arising from long-term incentives 30,534 10,139 1 Includes the value of shares that were released under long-term plans and gains realised in these years.
2 For the purpose of this table amounts denominated in Pounds sterling have been converted to US dollar amounts at the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 of 1:$1.5647 and for 2008 of 1: $1.8542.
