Financial statements Significant accounting policies Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1.
Foreign currencies In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting differences are taken to the income statement.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange other than substantial transactions, which are translated at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets of group companies, together with differences arising from the restatement of the net results of group companies from average or actual rates to rates at the balance sheet date, are taken to the translation reserve.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition the group has defined contribution plans and other unfunded post-employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the amount charged in the income statement is the cost of benefits accruing to employees over the year, plus any benefit improvements granted to members by the group during the year.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected return on pension plan assets over the year, offset by a charge equal to the expected interest on plan liabilities over the year.
For each of the groups plans, the difference between the market value of assets and the present value of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any related deferred tax to the extent it is recoverable is disclosed separately in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any actuarial gains or losses are recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Surpluses on defined benefit plans are recognised only to the extent that they are recoverable.
Movements in irrecoverable surpluses are recognised immediately as an actuarial gain or loss in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Other unfunded post-employment liabilities are accounted for in the same way as defined benefit pension plans.
Share-based payments: employee benefits The Share Incentive Plan allows executives to receive allocations of shares to be distributed subject to attainment of certain financial performance criteria and typically after a three-year performance period.
The fair value of the shares to be awarded is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the shares allocated is measured taking into account the terms and conditions under which the shares were allocated.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
The Share Option Scheme 1994 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 allow executives to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the executives become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items taken directly to reserves.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than those acquired in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59
