Financial statements Significant accounting policies Significant accounting policies for the year ended 12 September 2009 Associated British Foods plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 12 September 2009 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group and the groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 3 November 2009.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
These are presented on pages 107 to 111.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that biological assets and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
Assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The preparation of financial statements under Adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by management in the application of Adopted IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment next year, are discussed in note 31.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the period in which the estimates are revised.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied to all periods presented.
Details of new accounting standards which came into force in the year are set out at the end of this note.
None of them required restatement of primary statements in comparative periods, nor had any significant impact on the groups consolidated results or financial position.
The financial statements of the group are prepared for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2009, except that, to avoid delay in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, the results of certain subsidiaries are included up to 31 August 2009.
The results of Illovo are included for the period to 30 September 2009 in line with Illovos local reporting date.
Adjustments are made as appropriate for significant transactions or events occurring between 31 August and 30 September.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all of its subsidiaries from the date that control commences to the date that control ceases.
The consolidated financial statements also include the groups share of the after-tax results of its jointly controlled entities and associates on an equity-accounted basis from the point at which joint control or significant influence respectively commences, to the date that it ceases.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, typically established by contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities in which the group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Business combinations On the acquisition of a business or an interest in a joint venture or associate, fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
Provisional fair values subsequently finalised are adjusted by restatement of the comparative period in which the acquisition occurred.
Revenue Revenue represents the net invoiced value of goods delivered to customers, excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the underlying products have been substantially transferred to the customer.
Revenue is stated net of price discounts, certain promotional activities and similar items.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method.
58 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009
