Advanced Wound Management revenues grew 6% to $846 million, ahead of the market at 4%.
RENASYS Go Business Reviews Advanced Wound Management Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of wounds such as burns and invasive surgery that impact the wider population.
Advanced Wound Management revenues grew 6% to $846 million, ahead of the market at 4%, with all geographic regions contributing to the growth.
Europe and the rest of the world again produced good results, with revenue growth of 6% and 8% respectively.
In the US, the largest healthcare market in the world, our performance has improved, with growth of 2%.
Within our higher added value segments, Exudate Management and Infection Management, we achieved growth of 5% and 16% respectively.
This performance has been supported by the launches of products such as ALLEVYN GENTLE Ag and ACTICOAT Flex.
Our NPWT sales doubled on an underlying basis as our position in this market continues to strengthen We expanded our NPWT dressings range, launched our RENASYS enhanced pump range and won a series of intellectual property legal challenges.
The Advanced Wound Management trading margin increased by 360 basis points to 18.9%, due to strong delivery on earnings improvement programmes, other cost control measures and efficiency gains due to increased volumes.
We opened our new manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China on time and on budget and it produced 9.6 million ALLEVYN dressings in 2009.
Suzhou, China 12 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report Business Reviews Advanced Wound Management cont.
Global advanced wound management competitor share Market value: $5.0 billion Market growth: 4% i Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors and may not be comprehensive 13 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
