General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical devices in the sectors of Orthopaedics, Endoscopy andAdvanced WoundManagement.
Presentation of financial information As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2009.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31 December 2009.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting Policies The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments and the revised standard IAS 1Presentation ofFinancial Statements.
These impact the presentation and disclosure of the primary statements and disclosed information by way of notes, and therefore no comparative amounts require restatement.
In addition, the Group has adopted the IFRS 2 Amendment regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, the revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs on capitalisation of interest: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on financial instruments puttable at fair value and obligations arising on liquidation: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on cost of an investment in a subsidiary or associate: and an Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement on eligible hedged items.
None of the before mentioned standards nor any other standard or interpretation coming into effect during the year had a significant effect on the reported results orthe .
  set outbelow: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use significant estimates and assumptions are discussed under Critical Accounting Policies within the Business Review, Liquidity and Prospects section on pages 29 and 30.
Although these estimates are based on managements best  andactions, actualresults ultimatelymaydiffer fromthose estimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and its subsidiaries for the  oftheGroup.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses  .
BusinessCombinations and Goodwill On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities of subsidiaries and associates are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition using the purchase method.
The fair value of assets includes the taxation benefits resulting from amortisation for income taxation purposes from which a third party separately acquiring the assets would reasonably be expected to benefit.
Goodwill, representing the excess of purchase consideration over the Groups share of the fair value of net assets 86
