Introduction Trading profit increased by 15% to $857 million.
David Illingworth John Buchanan Chief Executive Chairman Introduction Smith & Nephew delivered revenues of $3,772 million, an underlying increase of 2% compared to last year, after adjusting for adverse currency movements of 3%.
All of our global business units reported underlying revenue growth.
Trading profit increased by 15% to $857 million.
These results were achieved against a background of challenging conditions in our markets.
In Orthopaedics, our US business Advanced Wound Management revenues In parallel with this revenue and profit improved during the course of 2009, were ahead of the market growth rate, performance, we have made investments with our traditional hip and knee ranges with all geographic regions contributing to for the future, such as NPWT expansion, outperforming the US market growth rate in the growth.
Our position in the Negative constructing medical education facilities in the second half of the year.
Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT market the UK, Switzerland and China, expanding continues to gain momentum, and we our biologics investment and driving our In Europe, we have strengthened launched further new products in our emerging markets strategy.
our management team and they are exudate and infection management ranges.
implementing a series of operational We continue to generate strong cash flow improvements.
A key focus for the Group is efficiency and and our net debt is now below $1 billion.
our trading margin improved strongly by Our emerging market business remained We had a strong finish to the year and 230 basis points to 22.7%.
This has been strong throughout the year.
are pleased with our achievements in achieved through manufacturing operational these challenging conditions.
We have In Endoscopy, strong sports medicine repair improvements and rigorous cost control successfully improved many areas of Smith sales growth continued with double digit across all businesses, together with specific & Nephews business and are working percentage growth which was balanced efficiency programmes.
hard at the remaining areas, as well as by the continued weakness in the sales identifying further opportunities.
We are of visualisation equipment, as hospitals confident that we have the strategy, and deferred capital equipment purchases due people, to deliver continued sustainable to the economic climate.
long-term growth for our shareholders.
2 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
