Financial Performance Group revenue by business unit Full Year Results ii Smith & Nephew delivered revenues of $3,772 million an underlying increase of 2% compared to last year, after adjusting for adverse currency movements of 3%.
Trading profit for the year was up 15% to $857 million with a trading margin of 22.7%, an increase of 230 basis points over last year.
Examples of the operational improvements included: Advanced Wound Management opening a new manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China and consolidating its UK wholesale distribution arrangements and Orthopaedics rationalising its European infrastructure.
The net interest charge for the year was $40 million.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairments includes a write down of $32 million relating to assets held for disposal and impairments of intangible assets and goodwill.
iii The tax charge was $198 million, including tax on adjusting items.
The effective tax rate for the year was 27.9%.
This is a lower rate than expected due to the favourable progress in, and resolution of, certain historic issues.
iv Adjusted attributable profit was $580 million and attributable profit was $472 million.
Reported basic earnings per share was 53.4 267.0 per ADS.
vii We achieved a strong trading cash flow of $771 million compared with $612 million a year ago.
This is a trading profit to cash conversation ratio of 90% compared with 79% in 2008.
We have reduced our net borrowings from a reported peak of $1,205 million at the end of June 2009 to $943 million at the year end.
Our principal loan facility of $2.5 billion runs until May 2012.
6 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report Financial Performance Group revenue by geographic location Dividend The second interim dividend has been declared at 8.93 44.65 per ADS per share, a 10% increase in line with our current dividend policy, and will be paid on 12 May 2010 to shareholders whose names appear on the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 April 2010.
Shareholders may participate in the Companys dividend reinvestment plan.
The Sterling equivalent per ordinary share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either Sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election will be 23 April 2010.
Together with the first interim dividend of 5.46 per share 27.3 per ADS this makes a total declared dividend of 14.39 per share 71.95 per ADS for the year 2009, up 10%.
Rest of the world consists of Africa, Asia, Australasia and Other America.
Revenue growth percentages are in underlying increases which are adjusted for the effects of currency translation and acquisitions.
Underlying revenue growth provides a consistent year on year measurement of business performance.
Revenue, trading profit and operating profit by business segment is set out in Note 3 and Note 4 of the Summary Financial Statements.
The effective tax rate is on profit before restructuring and rationalisation costs, acquisition related costs and amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairments.
Adjusted attributable profit is before the costs of restructuring and rationalisation, acquisition related costs, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairments and taxation thereon.
v. Adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA is stated before restructuring and rationalisation costs, acquisition related costs, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairments and taxation thereon.
A calculation of EPSA is provided in Note 2 to the Summary Financial Statements.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA growth is as reported and not underlying.
Trading cash flow is cash generated from operations less capital expenditure but before acquisition related costs and restructuring and rationalisation costs.
7 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
