Continued double digit percentage growth in sports medicine repair products.
OSTEORAPTOR Anchor Business Reviews Endoscopy Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery and focuses on the arthroscopy sector of this market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulder and hip.
Products include: specialised devices and fixation systems to repair damaged tissue and ligaments: fluid management equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: and radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
Endoscopy delivered revenue of $791 million, an increase of 1% on an underlying basis.
In Europe revenues grew by 6% and the rest of the world maintained double digit growth at 12%.
US revenues fell by 6%, where an improved performance in Arthroscopy was again held back by a significant decline in Visualisation.
Globally, Visualisation sales fell by 20%, as hospitals deferred capital equipment purchases due to the economic climate.
Arthroscopy grew by 7% driven by continued double digit percentage growth in sports medicine repair products with new introductions, such as the BICEPTOR Tenodesis System for biceps tendon repair and the bioabsorbable OSTEORAPTOR Anchor for use in the shoulder and hip.
We are investing to improve our resection performance.
For example, we have introduced more speciality blades, such as multi-purpose BONECUTTER ELECTROBLADE Resector, and launched our new platform of radiofrequency devices.
During 2009 Endoscopy significantly increased its number of new product launches.
The Endoscopy trading margin was 23.9%, a 320 basis point increase on the 20.7% achieved last year due to continued favourable product mix, tight budgetary discipline and operational excellence.
In 2010, Endoscopy is accelerating its investment in new products and geographies.
10 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report Business Reviews Endoscopy cont.
Endoscopy revenue by business segment Global arthroscopy competitor share Market value: $2.7 billion Market growth: 8% i Competitor shares are based on estimates for selected segments and competitors and may not be comprehensive.
11 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
