d Pensions Pensions UK UK based executive directors and executive officers have a normal retirement age of 62.
Those in service pre-2003 participate in the Smith & Nephew UK Pension Fund and the UK Executive Pension Scheme, under which pensions have been accrued in the year at an annual rate of one-thirtieth of final pensionable salary up to a limit based on service of two-thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC constraints.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum or the rate of inflation in the UK, if lower.
Death in service cover of four times salary and spouses pension at the rate of two thirds of the members pension are provided on death.
A salary supplement partially compensates for the HMRC earnings cap on final pensionablesalary  inthedefined benefit plans.
Those commencing employment post-2002 either participate in the defined contribution plan to which the Company contributes 30% of basic salary or they receive a non-pensionable, non-bonusable salary supplement of 30% ofbasicsalary.
 times basicsalary, ofwhichfourtimes salary ispayable as a lump sum is also provided.
The non-pensionable salary supplement is also available to any executive director orexecutive  pensionplans forfutureservice.
Pensions US US based executive directors and executive officers participate in either the defined benefit Smith & Nephew US Pension Plan or the defined contribution US Savings plan 401 K Plus.
Under the US Pension Plan, pensions accrue at an annual rate of approximately one sixty-second of final pensionable salary up to a limit based on service of 60% of final pensionable salary.
The plan also provides for a spouses pension at the rate of one half of the members pension on death.
Normal retirement age under the plan is 65.
For executives in the defined benefit US pension plan, a supplementary plan is used to enable benefits to be payable from age 62 without reduction for early retirement.
A supplementary defined contribution plan is used to compensate for the earnings capimposedbytheUS InternalRevenue .
 Across the group, senior executives are expected to build up and maintain a personal equity stake in the Company.
Executive directors are required to accumulate a personal holding equivalent to 2 times their base salary and executive officers are required to accumulate a personal holding equivalent to 1.5 times their base salary.
Senior executives are also required to accumulate a personal holding at differing levels depending upon their seniority.
These holdings are expected to be accumulated within five years of the later of the date of their joining the company or the date they became eligible to join the 2004 Performance Share Plan, 2004 Executive Share Option Plan and 2004 Co-Investment Plan.
The Remuneration Committee will take account of the extent to which these guidelines have been met when making future awards.
Non-executive directors are expected to accumulate a personal holding in the Company equivalent to their annual basic fee within three years of their appointmentorthedate that  inJuly2007.
Total Reward Composition The split between fixed and variable pay for the executive directors and executive officers in 2009 was as follows: Present economicvalue of AnnualBonus variable long-termincentives Base Pay fixed earnedinrespect of2009 variable Executive directors 25% 32% 43% Executive officers 33% 32% 35% ServiceContracts Details of the service contracts for each of the executive directors, including their notice periods, are set out below.
The service contracts are terminable by the executive director on six months notice.
There is no enhancement of termination rights on a change of control of the Group.
On termination of the contract by the Group, except for cause, the  has the discretionto pay executive directorsa sumequivalent tothe salary and benefits, including again at their discretion a proportion of the bonus that would have been received if they had been required to work their 12 month notice period.
In exercising this discretion, the Remuneration 68
