OPERATING ACTIVITIES SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source of reimbursement for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for  regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
Providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations,  financial, .
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK .
In the US, the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities with each business unit operating a separate specialised sales force.
The US sales forces consist of a mixture of independent commissioned sales agents and direct employees.
The independent agents are contractually not permitted to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews Orthopaedics and Endoscopy products are principally shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
Advanced Wound Management products are marketed directly to the ultimate customer.
The products are shipped and invoiced to a number of wholesale distributors.
In most other direct markets, the business units typically manage employee sales forces directly, and also .
The Emerging Markets unit comprises direct selling and marketing operations directly and through distributors in India, China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets, Orthopaedics and Endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The Advanced Wound Management sales force may be separate where it calls on different customers.
In other countries, Smith & Nephew typically sells to third party distributors which market the Groups products locally.
The Group operates a number of central distribution facilities in the key geographical areas in which it operates.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy operate a facility in Baar, Switzerland which acts as the main holding and consolidation point for markets in Europe.
Hubs serving the US are located in Memphis for Orthopaedics and Oklahoma for Endoscopy.
Products are shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced Wound Management distribution hubs include Neunkirchen, Germany:Nottingham, UK: andAtlanta, US.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews revenues are generally at their highest in the fourth quarter of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter seasons which increase revenues of orthopaedic trauma and endoscopy products.
Orthopaedic  are lower inthe third quarter due to fewer elective surgeriesinthe summerandhigherin the fourthquarteras elective surgeriesincrease.
MANUFACTUREAND SUPPLY The Group has a central Global Operations function which is implementing Lean manufacturing through the factories and the supply chain to sustain and improve the high levels of quality, service and efficiency.
Core competencies include materials technology: high precision machining in Orthopaedics and Endoscopy: and highvolume, automated  WoundManagement.
11 Group Description Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These principally include metal forgings and stampings for Orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for Endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for Advanced Wound Management and packaging materials across all businesses.
Suppliers are selected, and contracts negotiated, by a centralised Group procurement team wherever possible, to ensure value for money based onthe total .
The Group outsources manufacturing where necessary to obtain specialised expertise or where it is possible to gain lower cost without risk to intellectual property.
Suppliers of outsourced products and services are selected based on their ability to deliver products and services to specification, and establish and maintain a quality system.
Suppliers are trained and are monitored through on-site assessments and performance audits that include quality, service and delivery.
Finished goods purchased for resale include SUPARTZ joint and DUROLANE fluid therapy products in the Orthopaedics business and screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the Endoscopy business.
During the year, Smith & Nephew purchased the supplier of ACTICOAT in Advanced WoundManagement.
PROPERTY, PLANTAND EQUIPMENT Approximate area Square feet 000s Grouphead officeinLondon, England 15 , England 88  , Tennessee 770 , Tennessee 210 , Switzerland 77 , China 21 , China  192 , England 90 , Germany 103  inBaar, Switzerland 63  inAndover, Massachusetts 112 , Massachusetts 98 , Oklahoma 150 Advanced WoundManagement headquarters , England 439 Advanced WoundManagement , England 41 Advanced WoundManagement , China 128 Advanced WoundManagement , Florida i 135 Advanced WoundManagement , Canada 76 Advanced WoundManagement US headquarters inSt.
Petersburg, Florida 40 Biologics Global Operations headquarters inDurham, NorthCarolina 27 i Asannounced in2008,  during 2009.
The Group Global Operations strategy includes ongoingassessment of the optimal facility footprint.
Orthopaedics headquarters and manufacturing facilities in Memphis, the facilities in Aarau and the Advanced Wound Management facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke are freehold while other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
In 2009, Orthopaedics relocated the European headquarters from Rotkreuz to Baar, Switzerland.
In addition, the old Memphis distribution facility was relocated to a new facility in Memphis, purchased in 2008.
The lease on the old site subsequently expired.
In December 2009, Advanced Wound Management purchased the ACTICOAT  leasehold.
The Group closed the Largo manufacturing facility in 2009 and outsourced or relocated its manufacturing output.
The Advanced Wound Management business purchased land in Suzhou, China and has completed the build of a new factory which is now shipping wound management products on a global basis.
The Orthopaedics business 12 has purchased land near Beijing, China, and construction of the new facility is expected to be complete in 2010.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During2009, the Group appointed a Chief ScienceOfficer.
His role is to seek newproductsthat yieldthe greatest return for patients, healthcare professionals, shareholders and other stakeholders in the Group.
As the senior scientific figure in the Group, he will play a critical role in building the Groups innovation and research and development capability, developing and executing the scientific strategy and developing the Groups .
The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three operating segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $155m in 2009 2008 $152m, 2007 $142m, representing approximately 4% ofGrouprevenue 20084%, 20074%.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities for clinical needs identified from across the Smith & Nephew businesses.
During 2009, the Group opened a new facility in Durham, North Carolina, focusing on development of advanced, locally delivered biological therapies to promote healing and pain relief.
The Groups principalresearch facility located inYork, England is nowmanaged inconjunctionwith the Durhamfacility to provide research programmes that seek to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed  , AmericaandAsia.
Product development is carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee and Aarau, Switzerland Orthopaedics, Mansfield, Massachusetts Endoscopy and Hull, England Advanced Wound Management.
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained in a wide range of fields, including orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, clinicaltherapies, endoscopy and advanced woundmanagement.
Patent  sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfolio stands at over 3,800 patents inforceandpatent applicationspending Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products by registering trademarks under local laws of markets in which such products are sold.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement.
Currently, the Groups trademark portfolio consists of over 3,900 trademarks, trademark applications and design rights.
Smith & Nephews goal is to provide a collectionof intellectual property, whichmay include patents, trade secrets and licenses, for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
Most individual pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overall business is not sensitive to the loss howevercaused .
In addition to protecting its market position by filing and enforcing patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew may oppose third party patents and trademark filings where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groupsbusiness interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the current operations and the financialresults oftheGroup.
13 Group Description REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of timeandexpense that shouldbe allotted tosuchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan and the State Food and Drug Administration inChina.
The trend in recent years continues to be towards regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal.
In the US, many of the Groups products are brought to market following pre-market notification to the FDA under Section 510 k of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, with a request that FDA clear the product as being substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to a previously approved device.
The FDA is considering changes in the 510 k clearance process that could delay or increase the cost of clearance in some circumstances, including requiring clearance for more minor modifications or requiring additional clinical studies following clearance.
Regulatory requirements may also entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to good manufacturing practices.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards and policies.
Management believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continues to make capital expenditures for environmental compliance, it is not currently aware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result of such laws and regulations that would have a material adverse impact upon the Groups financial condition.
