General Information Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
In these accounts, Group means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical devices in the sectors of Orthopaedics, Endoscopy andAdvanced WoundManagement.
Presentation of financial information As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2009.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31 December 2009.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting Policies The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments and the revised standard IAS 1Presentation ofFinancial Statements.
These impact the presentation and disclosure of the primary statements and disclosed information by way of notes, and therefore no comparative amounts require restatement.
In addition, the Group has adopted the IFRS 2 Amendment regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, the revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs on capitalisation of interest: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on financial instruments puttable at fair value and obligations arising on liquidation: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on cost of an investment in a subsidiary or associate: and an Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement on eligible hedged items.
None of the before mentioned standards nor any other standard or interpretation coming into effect during the year had a significant effect on the reported results orthe .
  set outbelow: Basis of Preparation The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use significant estimates and assumptions are discussed under Critical Accounting Policies within the Business Review, Liquidity and Prospects section on pages 29 and 30.
Although these estimates are based on managements best  andactions, actualresults ultimatelymaydiffer fromthose estimates.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc the Company and its subsidiaries for the  oftheGroup.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group accounts from the date that the Group obtains control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses  .
BusinessCombinations and Goodwill On acquisition, identifiable assets and liabilities including contingent liabilities of subsidiaries and associates are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition using the purchase method.
The fair value of assets includes the taxation benefits resulting from amortisation for income taxation purposes from which a third party separately acquiring the assets would reasonably be expected to benefit.
Goodwill, representing the excess of purchase consideration over the Groups share of the fair value of net assets 86 2 a.
Accounting Policies continued BusinessCombinations and Goodwill continued acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually.
For purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by Management, beingthe operatingsegment level.
Investments in Associates Investments in associates, being those entities over which the Group has a significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary or a joint venture, are accounted for using the equity method, with the Group recording its share of the associates net income and equity.
The Groups share in the results of its associates is included in one separate income statement line and is calculated after deduction of their respective taxes.
Revenue Revenue comprises sales of products and services to third parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts and rebates, excluding taxes on revenue.
Revenue from the sale of products is recognised upon transfer to the customer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership.
This is generally when goods are delivered to customers.
Sales of inventory located at customer premises and available for customers immediate use are recognised when notification is received that the product has been implanted or used.
Appropriate provisions for returns, trade discounts and rebates are deducted from revenue.
Rebates comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of the level ofbusiness expected andadjusted at  actualvolumes.
ForeignCurrencies Balance sheet items of foreign operations and foreign currency borrowings are translated into US Dollars on consolidation at year end rates of exchange.
Income statement items and the cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings are translated at average rates as anapproximationto , with used forlargeoneoff transactions.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and  at theclosingrate.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange rulingat thebalancesheet date.
The following are recorded as movements in Other reserves within other comprehensive income: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at average and closing exchange rates: to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations: and the movement in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts used to hedge forecast foreign exchangecashflows.
Taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted bythe balancesheet date.
Deferred taxation is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the correspondingtax bases used  profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except in respect of investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to controlthe timingofthereversal ofthe temporarydifference andit 87 Group Accounts 2 a.
Accounting Policies continued Taxation continued is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combinationandthat, at , does notaffect  profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Their carrying amount is reviewed at each balance sheet date onthesame basis.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date that are expected to apply in the periods in whichthe asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with .
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis and that authoritypermits .
AdvertisingCosts Expenditure onadvertising costs isexpensed as incurred.
Intangible Assets Intangible assets acquired separately including purchased patents, know-how, trademarks, licences and distribution rights are initially measured at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a material business combination referred to as acquisition intangibles is the fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
All intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The estimated useful economic life of an intangible asset ranges between three and 20 years depending on its nature.
Internally generated intangible assets are expensed in the incomestatement as incurred.
Purchased computer software and certain costs of information technology projects are capitalised as intangibleassets.
Software that  as plant andequipment.
Research and Development The Group considers that the regulatory, technical and market uncertainties inherent in the development of new products means that development costs should not be capitalised as intangible assets until products receive approval from the appropriate regulatory body.
Substantially all development expenditure is complete by the time the product is submitted for regulatory approval.
Consequently the majority of expenditure  isexpensed as incurred.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation and provision for impairment where appropriate.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis at between 2% and 5% per annum.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the  usefuleconomiclives andtheterms oftheleases.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over lives ranging between three and 20 years by equal annual instalments to write down the assets to their estimated residual value at the end of their working lives.
Finance costs relating to the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets that take longer than one year to complete are capitalised based on the Group weighted average borrowingcosts.
All otherfinancecosts areexpensed as incurred.
Accounting Policies continued Impairment of assets The recoverable amount of cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for   itmightbe impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events  impaired.
If anysuchindication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the .
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, its estimated future cash flow is discounted to its present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of .
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made whenpreparing cash flow projections.
These includeannual sales growth, trading margins, capital utilisation and anticipated volume and value growth in the markets served by the Group.
If actual results should differ, or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely .
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards .
All otherleases areclassified as operatingleases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as property, plant or equipment and depreciated accordingly.
The capital element of future lease payments is included in borrowings and interest is charged toprofitbefore taxation  .
Rentals payable under operating leases are expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the term oftherelevant lease.
Investments and Other Financial Assets Investments, other than those related to associates, are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs on the trade date.
The Group holds an investment in an entity that holds mainly unquoted equity securities, which is classed as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.
The fair value of the investment is based on the underlying fair value of the equity securities: marketable securities are valued by reference to closing prices in the market: non-marketable securities are estimated considering factors including the purchase price, prices of recent significant private placements of securities of the same issuer and estimates of liquidation value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income except where management considers that there is objective evidence of an impairment of the underlying equity securities,  anexpense immediately.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost, less any allowances for uncollectibleamounts.
Theyare included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and other receivables are classified as Trade and other receivables inthebalancesheet.
Inventories Finished goods and work-in-progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials and bought-in finished goods are valued at purchase price.
All inventories are reduced to net realisable value where lower than cost.
Inventory acquired as part of a business acquisitionisvalued at sellingpriceless costs ofdisposal .
Orthopaedic instruments are generally not sold but provided to customers and distributors for use in surgery.
They are recorded as inventory until they are deployed at which point they are transferred to plant   ofbetween three andfive years.
Accounting Policies continued Inventories continued A feature of the orthopaedic business is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use referred to as consignment inventory.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These outer sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical or forecast usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience but it involves management judgements oneffectiveness of inventorydeployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old .
DerivativeFinancial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at fair value and then for reporting purposes are remeasured to fair value at subsequent balance sheet dates.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value ofinterest rate swap   .
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast third party and intercompany transactions are recognised in other comprehensive income until the associated asset or liability is recognised.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset, the amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred .
Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are fair valued at year end.
Changes in the fair values of currency swaps that are designated and effective as net investment hedges  changesinvalue ofthe related net assets.
Interest rate swaps transacted to fix interest rates on floating rate borrowings are accounted for as cash flow hedges and changes in the fair values resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in .
Any ineffectiveness on hedging instruments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement within other finance income costs as theyarise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other  retained there until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other  totheincomestatement fortheperiod.
Recognitionof Financial Assets and Liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on a trade date basis in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group carries borrowings in the BalanceSheet at amortisedcost.
Retirement Benefits The Groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, the employers portion of past and current service cost is charged to operating profit, with the interest cost net of expected return on assets in the plans reported within other finance income costs.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full directly in other comprehensive income such that the balance sheet reflects the plans surpluses or deficits as at thebalancesheet date.
Accounting Policies continued Retirement Benefits continued The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pensionliability.
A number of key assumptions have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the balance sheet assets and liabilities, operating profit and finance income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
The most critical assumption for the plan assets is the future expected return.
In determining these assumptions management takes into account the advice   assumptions against external data.
Where defined contributionplans operate, the contributionsto these plans are charged to operating profit as theybecomepayable.
Share Based Payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled executive and employee share plans.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value at the grant date is calculated using appropriate option pricing models andthe correspondingexpense  period.
Contingenciesand Provisions In the normal course of business the Group is involved in numerous legal disputes.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group is the plaintiff in pursuing claims against third parties legal and associated expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings and settlement negotiationsoras newfacts emerge.
The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions around the world and records provisions for taxation liabilities and tax audits when it is considered probable that a tax charge will arise and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Although Group policy is to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any time the   and tax audits.
Significant issues may take many years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge management takes into account the views of internal and external advisors and updates the amount of the provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided  law, settlement .
Adjusted Earnings Per Share Adjusted earnings per share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure.
Reconciliation from attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit is included in Note 12 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded when arriving at adjusted attributable profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising from legal disputes anduninsuredlosses: andtaxation thereon.
