INTRODUCTION ANDFINANCIAL SUMMARY The Smith & Nephew Group the Group is a global medical devices business operating in the orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management markets, with revenue of approximately $3.8 billion in 2009.
Smith & Nephew plc is the parent company the Company of the Group.
It is an English public limited company with its shares listed on the official list of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is also traded  ADSs.
This report is the Annual Report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
It comprises in a single document, the Annual Report and Accounts of the company in accordance with UK requirements and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
A summary report on the year, the 2009 Summary Annual Review, intended for the investor whodoes not require the full detail of the Annual Report, is available on Smith & Nephews corporate website at www.
com investors along with the electronic version of this Annual Report.
For the convenience of the reader, a Glossary of technical and financial terms used in this document is included on page 164.
The product names referred to in this document are identified by use of capital letters and are trademarks  oftheSmith&NephewGroup.
Financial Summary 2009 2008 2007 FinancialHighlights i $ million $ million $ million Revenue 3,772 3,801 3,369 Underlyinggrowthin revenue % 2% 6% 10% Tradingprofit 857 776 706 Underlyinggrowthin tradingprofit % 15% 6% 17% Tradingprofitmargin % 22.7% 20.4% 21.0% Operating profit 723 630 493 Attributable profitfortheyear 472 377 316 Adjustedattributable profit 580 493 480  53.4 42.6 34.2 EPSA 65.6 55.6 52.0 Growthin EPSA % 18% 7% 15% Dividendsper OrdinaryShare ii 14.39 13.08 11.89 i Items .
ii The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 8.93 US cents per share which together with the first interim dividend of 5.46 US cents makes a total for 2009 of 14.39 US cents.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 12 May 2010 to shareholders on the RegisterofMembers  April2010.
Key Performance Indicators The Directors Report includes a number of measures that management use as key performance indicators.
The  intheAnnualReport are: Underlying growth in revenue Underlying growth in revenue is used to compare the revenue in a given year to the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is achieved by adjusting for the impact of sales of products acquired in material business combinations and for movements in exchange rates.
Underlying growth in revenue is not presented in the accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS and is therefore not a Generally Accepted AccountingPrinciple nonGAAP measure.
An explanation of how this non-GAAP measure is calculated is presented in the Business Overviewonpage 26.
The Group believes that the tabular presentation and  tounderlying assists investors intheir assessment of the Groups performance ineach business segment and for the Group as a whole.
i Underlying growth in revenue is considered by the Group to be an important measure of performance in terms of local functional currency since it excludes those items considered to be outside the influence of local management.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and a consolidated Group basis.
Revenue growth at constant currency is important in measuring business performance compared to competitors .
The Group considers that revenue from sales of products acquired in material business combinations results in a step-up in growth in revenue in the year of acquisition that cannot be wholly attributed to local managements efforts with respect to the business in the year of acquisition.
Depending on the timing of the acquisition, there will usually be a further step change in the following year.
A measure of growth excluding the effects of business combinations also allows senior management to evaluate the performance and relative impact of growth from the existing business and growth from acquisitions.
The process of making business acquisitions is directed, approved  objectives.
The Groups annual bonus incentive plans include an element which relates to revenue growth performance.
Targets are set and performance measured in constant currency, excluding the step-change impact of acquisitions.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group compensates for this limitation by taking into account relative movements in exchange rates in its investment, strategic planning and resource allocation.
In addition, as the evaluation and assessment of business acquisitions is not within the control of local management, performance of acquisitions is monitored centrally until the business is integrated.
The Groups management considers that the non-GAAP measure of underlying growth in revenue and the GAAP measure of   exclusively.
Basic adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA, trading profit and adjusted attributable profit Growth in EPSA and trading profit are measures which present the trend growth in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions or events that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents these measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Groups internal financial reporting budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans, focuses primarily on profit and earnings before these items.
EPSA and trading profit are not recognised measures underIFRS.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be adjusted and identified separately: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: gains and losses arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses: and taxation thereon.
A reconciliation of attributable profit to adjusted attributable profit, which represents the numerator used in the EPSA calculation, is presented in Selected Financial Data on page 154.
An explanation of how trading   26.
EPSA growth, trading profit and trading profit margin trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue are also key measures used for remunerating senior management in order to align the interests of senior .
The material limitation of these measures is that they exclude significant income and costs that have a direct impact on current and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
They do not, therefore, measure the overall performance of the Group presented by the GAAP measures of earnings per share and operating profit.
The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the adjusted earnings per share and trading profit measures by considering them in conjunction with their GAAP equivalents.
Gains or losses which are identified separately arise from irregular events or transactions.
Such events or transactions are authorised centrally and require a strategic assessment which includes consideration of financial returns and generation of shareholder value.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles will occur each year, whilst other excluded items arise irregularly depending on the events that give risetosuchitems.
ii Presentation The Groups fiscal year end is 31 December.
References in this Annual Report to a particular year are to the fiscal year unless otherwise indicated.
Except as the context otherwise requires, Ordinary Share or share refer to the OrdinaryShares ofSmith&Nephewplcof20US centseach.
The results of the Group, as reported in US Dollars, are affected by movements in exchange rates between US Dollars and other currencies.
The Group applied the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of non-US companies into US Dollars.
The currencies which most influenced these translations intheyears , Swiss Francandthe Euro.
The Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew in this Annual Report are presented in US Dollars.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, certain parts of this Annual Report contain translations of amounts in US Dollars into Sterling at specified rates.
These translations should not be construed as representations that the US Dollar amounts actually represent suchSterling amounts or couldbe converted intoSterlingat the rate indicated.
Except as where stated otherwise, the translation of US Dollars and cents to Sterling and pence appearing in this Annual Report has been made at the Noon Buying Rate in The City of New York for cable transfers in Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate on the date indicated.
Smith & Nephews corporate website, www.
com, gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website is not intended to be, and should not be regarded as being, part of thisAnnualReport.
Special Note Regarding  The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding planned growth in the Groups business and trading margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information are forward-looking statements as are discussions of the Groups product pipeline and discussions of the costs of future revisions of the macrotextured knee product under Legal Proceedings.
When used in this Annual Report, the words aim, anticipate, believe, consider, estimate, expect, intend, plan, target, well-placed and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forwardlooking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors including, but not limited to, the outcome of litigation and regulatory approvals that could cause theactualresults, &Nephew, orindustryresults,  future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of 17 March 2010.
All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew or any person acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or  isbased.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitors information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the  bytheGrouptotheSEC maybe accessed throughthe SEC website.
iii [THISPAGE ] iv CONTENTS DirectorsReport 3 - 74,145 - 153  3 BusinessReview BR,  i 25  47  61 GroupAccounts 75 - 136  76 Groupauditorsreports 78 Groupincomestatement 82 Groupstatement  82 Groupbalancesheet 83  84 Groupstatement ofchangesinequity 85 Notes tothe Groupaccounts 86 Parent CompanyAccounts 137 - 144 Parent  137 Parent Companybalancesheet 139 Notes tothe Parent Companyaccounts 140 Investor Information 145-167 Cross referencetoForm20-F 162 Glossary ofTerms 164 Index 167 ThisAnnualReport  was approved .
i  Key Performance Indicators isgiven inIntroduction and Financial Summary onpages iand ii.
