DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE ACCOUNTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
As a consequence of the Parent Companys Ordinary Shares being traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares the directors are responsible for the preparation and filing of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The directors are required to prepare Group accounts for each financial year, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Groupaccounts, : Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates  themconsistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable andunderstandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users tounderstand , otherevents andconditionsonthe Groups :and State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Under United Kingdom law the directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, whichare required by law to give a  ofaffairs ofthe Parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Parent Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company accounts, the directorsare requiredto: Select suitable  themconsistently: Makejudgements andestimates that arereasonable andprudent: State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained intheaccounts:and Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continueinbusiness.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, in the case of the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Parent Company and  steps .
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
It should be noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and  .
