INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Financial Calendar Quarter Oneresults andAGM 6May2010 Payment  12May2010 Half yearresults announced 5August 2010 i Quarter Threeresults announced 5November2010 Payment of2010first interimdividend November2010 Fullyearresults announced February2011 i AnnualReport available March2011 AnnualGeneral Meeting April May2011 i Dividend declaration dates.
Ordinary Shareholders Registrar All general enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, changes to shareholders personal details and the AGM shouldbe addressed to: Equiniti, Aspect House, SpencerRoad, Lancing, West Sussex BN996DA  Tel: 44 0 .
: Shareview Equinitis online enquiry and portfolio management service for shareholders.
To view information about your shareholdings online, register at www.
Once registered for Shareview, you will also be able to register your proxy instructions online and elect to receive future shareholder communications via the Companyswebsite www.
E-communications In line with developing practice we encourage shareholders to elect to receive communications via email as this has significant environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders may register for this service through Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders will receive a confirmation letter from Equiniti at their registered address, .
Payment ofdividends  Shareholders who wish to avoid the risk of their dividend payments getting lost or mislaid can arrange to have their cash dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account.
This facility is available to UK resident shareholders who receive sterling dividends.
If you do not live in the UK you may be able to register for the overseas payment service.
Further Information is available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti UK andoverseas helplinenumbersas above.
 DRIP The Company offers shareholders except those in North America the opportunity to participate in a DRIP.
This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in further Ordinary shares of Smith & Nephew plc.
These are purchased in the market at competitive dealing costs.
For further details plus an application , contactEquiniti as above.
Smith& NephewcorporateISA Shareholders who are UK residents are offered the opportunity to hold Smith & Nephew plc shares in an Individual Savings Account ISA, which is administered by the Companys registrar.
For information about thisserviceplease contactEquiniti as above.
148  The Company makes Quarterly financial announcements which are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on the Groups website www.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, Summary Financial Statements, press releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts are also available onthe website.
Following shareholder approval in 2007, the Company sends paper copies of the Annual Report only to those shareholders that have elected to receive shareholder documentationby post.
ADS holders will also not receive a paper copy unless they have elected to do so.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report and the Summary Annual Review, are available on the Groups website at www.
Both Ordinary shareholders and ADS holders can request paper copies of the Annual Report and Summary Annual Review, which the Company provides free of charge.
The Company will continue to send to Ordinary shareholders by post the notice of the Annual General Meeting and an accompanying letter.
The letter states that the Annual Report is available on the Groups website.
Shareholders who elect to receive the notice of Annual General Meeting electronically are informed by e-mail of the documents availability on the Groups website.
ADS holders receive the form of proxy bypost but willnotreceiveapaper  Meeting.
 The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major investors, the executive directors review significant issues raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive directors are sent copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the directors at the AGM and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a range ofissues.
UK capital gains tax For the purposes of UK capital gains tax the price of the Companys Ordinary Shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
Smith & Nephewshare price The Companys Ordinary Shares are quoted on the LSE under the symbol SN.
The Companys share price is available on the Smith & Nephew website www.
com whereitisupdated at intervals throughouttheday.
ShareGift Shareholders with only a small number of shares, which would cost more to sell than they are worth, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
There may be no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss and it may also be possible to obtain income tax relief.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from Equiniti at the above address.
American DepositaryShares ADSs and American DepositaryReceipts ADRs In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs, evidenced by ADRs, on the NYSE under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary Share represents five Ordinary Shares.
The Bank of New York Mellonisthe authoriseddepositary  programme.
ADS Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to: BNY Mellon ShareholderServices, PO Box358516, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516, USA: Tel:  tollfree Tel:  Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
149 Investor Information A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: The Bank of New YorkMellon as above orvisitwww.
The Company provides the Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, with copies of Annual Reports containing Consolidated FinancialStatements and the opinionexpressed thereon byits independentauditors.
Suchfinancial statements are prepared under IFRS.
The Bank of New York Mellon will send these reports to recorded ADS holders who have elected to receive paper copies.
The Company also provides to The Bank of New York Mellon all notices of shareholders meetings and other reports and communications that are made generally available to shareholders of the Company.
The Bank of New York Mellon makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and sends forms of proxy by post to all recorded holders of ADSs.
Smith & NephewADS price The Companys ADS price can be obtained from the official New York Stock Exchange website at www.
com, the Smith& Nephewwebsite www.
The Company hereby discloses ADS payment information for the year ended 31 December 2009 in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules 12.
D. 4 relating to Form 20-F filings by foreign private issuers.
The depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property to pay the fees.
The depositary may collect its annual fee for depository services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting for them.
The depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services untilits fees forthoseservices arepaid.
Personsdepositingor : For: $5.00 orless per100ADSs orportionof100ADSs Issuance of ADSs, including issuances resulting from   Cancellation of ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal,  agreement terminates $0.02 orless perADS  registered holders A fee equivalent to the fee that would be payable if Distribution of securities distributed to holders of securities distributed to holders had been shares and deposited securities which are distributed by the the shares hadbeendeposited forissuanceofADSs depositary toADS registered holders $0.02 orless perADS percalendaryear Depositaryservices Registration ortransfer fees Transfer and registration of shares on our share register to or from the name of the depositary or its agent whenshares are deposited orwithdrawn Taxes and other governmental charges the depositary or As necessary the custodian have to pay on any ADS or share underlying an ADS, for example, stock transfer taxes, stamp  Any charges incurred by the depositary or its agents for As necessary servicingthe deposited securities 150 Fees incurred in past annual period From 1 January 2009 to 17 March 2010, the Company received from the depositary $201,267 for continuing annual stock exchange listing fees, standard out-of-pocket maintenance costs for the ADSs consisting of the expenses of postage and envelopes for mailing annual and interim financial reports, printing and distributing dividend cheques, electronic filing of U. S. Federal tax information, mailing required tax forms, stationery, postage, facsimile and telephone calls, any applicable performance indicators relating to the ADS facility, underwriting fees andlegal fees.
Fees to be paid in the future On 11 February 2010 the Companyannouncedthat it is  ofupto2US cents per ADS per dividend payment.
The fee is being implemented to off-set some of the costs associated with administering the ADS facility.
It is anticipated that 2 US cents per share will be payable on the 2009 second interim dividend payable in May 2010 and 1 US cents will be deducted from the 2010 first interim dividend likely to be in November 2010.
The Bankof New YorkMellon, as depositary, will deduct this fee priorto paying the net dividend andwillreimburse70%ofsuchfee totheCompany.
