Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities For cash and cash equivalents, short-term loans and receivables, overdrafts and other short-term liabilities which have a maturity of less than three months the book values approximate the fair values because of .
Forward foreign exchange contracts that are taken out as hedges are fair valued.
These are regarded as Level 2 financial instruments measured at fair value.
Level 2 financial investments are defined as: Valuation techniques for whichall observable inputs have a significanteffect , eitherdirectly orindirectly.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing and swap models, using present value calculations.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves andforwardrate curves.
As at 31 December 2009, the mark-to-market value of a derivative asset position is net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty default risk.
The changes in counterparty credit riskhadno material effect on the hedge effectiveness for derivatives designated in hedge relationships and other  fairvalue.
Long-term borrowings are measured in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
As the Groups long-term borrowings are not quoted publicly and as market prices are not available their fair values are estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows to net present values at the current market interest rates available to the Group for similar financial instruments as at the year end.
At 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008, the   fromamortised cost.
Payables Notes 2009 2008 $ million $ million Trade and other payables due within one year  547 544  currencyswaps 20 4   24 34  interest rate swaps 6 14  19 11 596 607 Other payables due after one year:  27 36 Amounts falling due after more than one year are payable as follows: $27m in 2011 2008 $4m in 2010 and $32m in 2011.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Management considerthat  payables approximates the fairvalue.
