PARENTCOMPANY AUDITORSREPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the parent company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Parent company balance sheet and the related notes A to H. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United  AccountingPractice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companysmembers as abody, forourauditwork, forthisreport,  formed.
 directorsand auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing PracticesBoards APBs EthicalStandards forAuditors.
Scope of the audit of the accounts An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accountingestimates made bythedirectors: ofthe accounts.
Opinion on accounts  companyaccounts: givea  ofthecompanysaffairs as at 31December2009: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have beenprepared  2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribedby the Companies Act 2006 Inouropinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct 2006:and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the accounts are prepared is  companyaccounts.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to reporttoyouif, inouropinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have  byus:or the parent company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement :or  bylawarenotmade: or wehave  werequireforouraudit.
137 Parent Company Accounts Other matter We have reported separately on the group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
LeslieClifford Senior Statutory Auditor forandbehalf ofErnst & YoungLLPStatutory Auditor London 18March2010 138
