SHAREHOLDER RETURN Dividends Dividend History Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected Financial Data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policy of increasing the dividendby10%ayearinUS Dollarterms.
Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its Ordinary Shares in each year since 1937.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
Up to 2004 a final dividend for each year was recommended by the Board of Directors in the following February and paid in May after approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following shareholder approval in December 2005, the directors may declare and pay interim dividends.
The second interim dividend replaces the final dividend and is usually payable in May.
In 2007, 2008 and 2009 shareholders received two interim dividends and are expected  in2010.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financialconditionof the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out inSpecial  andRiskFactors.
Dividendsper share Thetable belowsets outthedividends  five years.
Dividends above include the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but exclude the deduction of withholding taxes.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, were declared in pence per Ordinary Share and translated into US cents per Ordinary Share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
Since the second interim  havebeendeclared inUS .
The Ordinary Shares and ADSs will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges respectively from 21 April 2010.
In respect of the second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 8.93 US cents per Ordinary Share, the record date will be 23 April 2010 and the payment date will be 12 May 2010.
The Sterling equivalent per Ordinary Share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to  Dollarsandthelast dayforelectionwillbe 23April2010.
146 Share Prices The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest and lowest sales pricesofits ADSs as reported .
