General Information Presentation of financial information The Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
Financial information for prior periods was restated from Sterling into US Dollars in accordance with FRS 23, TheEffectsof Changesin ForeignExchange Rates.
Share capital and share premium in comparative periods were translated at the rate of exchange on the date ofredenomination.
Accounting Policies The separate accounts of the Parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Parent Company is exempt from FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the  onpages 76to139.
The Parent Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures not to present its related party disclosures as the Group accountscontainthese disclosures.
Inaddition, the Parent Company has taken advantage of the exemption inFRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its owncash flowstatement as .
In applying these policies management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimatelymaydiffer fromthoseestimates.
ForeignCurrencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Investments Investments insubsidiaries arestated at costless .
Financial Instruments Currency swaps are used to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities.
They are initially recorded at fair value and then for reporting purposes remeasured to fair value at exchange rates andinterest rates at subsequent balancesheet dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account as theyarise.
DeferredTaxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligationtopaymore, orarighttopayless ortoreceivemore, tax.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse.
These are based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at thebalancesheet date.
