GLOSSARYOFTERMS Unless the , thefollowingterms : Term Meaning Adjusted attributable profit Adjusted attributable profit is a trend measure which presents the longterm profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from attributable profit when arriving at adjusted attributable profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: gains and losses resulting from legal disputes and uninsured losses: and taxation on excluded items.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numeratorused indeterminingEPSA.
ADR In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs  ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of  ADSs.
Advanced WoundManagement A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound .
Arthoscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal .
Bandaging A  andsupport bandaging Basis Point  point.
Bio-absorbable Bio-absorbable material: Material used in surgical procedures which degrade and are absorbed by the body after a period of time, thus .
Chronicwounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including legulcers, pressure sores .
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, .
CompaniesAct CompaniesAct 2006, as amended, ofEnglandandWales.
DigitalOperating Room The digital operating room is a custom-designed operating room solution providing auto-video connectivity, medical device control, integration with hospital information systems and surgical documentation devices for medical facilities to help improve efficiency, cost effectiveness and, by extension, patient care.
EBITA Earningsbefore interest, tax andamortisation.
EIP Earnings Improvement Programme, the objective of which is to enhance short and medium term performance, to liberate resources for investment andtoestablish .
EPSA Adjusted Earnings Per Share is a trend measure which presents the longterm profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
164 Term Meaning Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through coin-sized openings in the body, .
Endoscopyproducts A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see .
Euroor References to the common currency used in the majority of the countries oftheEuropeanUnion.
External fixation The use of wires or pins transfixed through bone to hold a frame to the positionofafracture.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the London Stock Exchange .
Fracturecasting A product group comprising products that are used externally to immobilise a bone fracture or damaged joint, usually made of plaster of .
GrouporSmith&Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, .
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations as adopted by the EU and as issued  Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued  Board.
Insufflation The use of carbon dioxide to inflate body cavities during endoscopic surgerytoenable .
 Stainless steel or titanium implants shaped like a nail implanted in the  fractures.
LSE LondonStockExchange  A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip headsubstantially preserved.
Negative Pressure WoundTherapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post operative woundsthroughthe  toanopenwound.
NYSE NewYorkStockExchange  Any product that is primarily intended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bonegrowth.
Orthopaedicproducts Orthopaedic reconstruction products include joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
Orthopaedic trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures includingrods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products comprise a joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasoundtreatment toaccelerate .
165 Investor Information Term Meaning OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness,  .
Parent Smith&Nephewplc PoundSterling, Sterling, pence References toUK currency.
orp Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bio-absorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand .
Tradingprofit Trading profit is a trend which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: and gains and losses resultingfromlegal disputes anduninsuredlosses.
Traditionalwoundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets  body.
UK GAAP  inthe United Kingdom US UnitedStates ofAmerica US Dollars, US $ orcents References toUS currency.
1centisequivalent toonehundredthofUS$1 US GAAP  inthe United States ofAmerica Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcastingsystems .
Woundbed Anarea  tissue ofa wound.
