Outlook In the second half of 2009 there were signs that conditions in our markets are stabilising, although we remain cautious about the pace of the recovery.
We believe that the pricing environment will remain a challenge, but that mix benefits will continue to be available for products which demonstrate clinical and cost benefits.
The long-term demand fundamentals underpinning our sector, particularly demographics and emerging markets, remain favourable and substantial.
During 2010, in Orthopaedic Reconstruction we expect to grow at around the market rate, with our European business continuing to improve.
In Orthopaedic Trauma we are committed to achieving a sustainable market growth rate, but expect this to take some time to achieve.
In Endoscopy we expect to achieve strong revenue growth in the repair segment: it is difficult to predict when capital equipment sales will recover.
In Advanced Wound Management we believe we will continue to grow at above the market rate.
We made strong trading margin progress during 2009.
We continue to be focused on longer term improvements which will deliver efficiencies and facilitate increased investment in growth opportunities.
We are confident that we have the strategy, and people, to deliver continued sustainable long-term growth for our shareholders.
Forward-Looking Statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding expected revenue growth and trading margins discussed under Outlook are forward-looking statements as are discussions of our product pipeline.
These statements, as well as the phrases aim, plan, intend, anticipate, well-placed, believe, estimate, expect, target, consider and similar expressions, are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors including, but not limited to the outcome of litigation, claims and regulatory approvals that could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Smith & Nephew, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the documents that Smith & Nephew has filed with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including Smith & Nephews most recent annual report on Form 20F, for a discussion of certain of these factors.
All forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of the date hereof.
All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew or any person acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
14 Smith & Nephew Summary Annual Review 2009 Summary Shareholder Summary Financial Outlook Business Reviews Financial Performance Our Strategy Financial Highlights Introduction Information Statements Remuneration Report
