122 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and all applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
These accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities held at fair value.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys entity profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses have not been presented.
As permitted by Section 408 2 information about the Companys employee numbers and costs is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions with other wholly owned members of the Smiths Group.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the retranslation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred over the term of the lease.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that the rental income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, provision is made for the anticipated future shortfall up to termination of the lease.
Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided at rates estimated to write off the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their expected useful lives.
In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%: Short leasehold property over the period of the lease: Plant, machinery, etc.
10% to 20%: Motor vehicles 25%: Tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
Fixed asset investments The Companys investments in shares in group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
Financial instruments The policies disclosed in the Group accounting policies on pages 80 to 85 for recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments are applied in the Company accounts.
Where there are no differences between the disclosures required for the Group and the Company in respect of a class of financial instruments, an appropriate cross-reference is made to the Group accounts.
Taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed as at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as disclosed in the accounts, arising from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not recognised on any fixed assets that have been revalued unless there is a binding agreement to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions for disposal indemnities, restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims are recognised when: the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
123 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Post-retirement benefits For defined benefit schemes, the cost of benefits accruing during the year in respect of current and past service is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The balance sheet includes the surplus deficit in schemes taking assets at their year-end market values and liabilities at their actuarially calculated values discounted at year-end AA corporate bond interest rates.
The Company has adopted the amendment to FRS 17 issued in December 2006.
Share-based payment The Company operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee services received.
The charge relating to grants to employees of the Company is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account and the charge for grants to employees of other group companies is recognised as an investment in the relevant subsidiary.
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models, principally Binomial models.
The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the number of share options which are likely to vest.
For cash-settled share-based payment a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
For equitysettled share-based payment the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20: Share-based Payment, no charge has been recognised for grants of equity instruments made before 7 November 2002.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are authorised.
The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
