Value in use calculations are used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill held within each cash generating unit CGU.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash-flows of the CGU, applying a discount rate based on the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital adjusted where appropriate for risks specific to the CGU.
This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash-flows.
These forecast cash-flows are based on approved budgets and represent a best estimate of future performance.
The assumptions used in the discounted cash-flow forecasts incorporate past performance, historical growth rates and margins achievable in our key markets.
The assumptions used in the impairment testing of significant CGUs are as follows: Smiths Medical Critical Care Smiths Detection Civil 2009 2008 2009 2008 Net book value of goodwill m 374.3 291.5 316.0 288.8 Discount rate 8% 8% 8% 8% Growth rates 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% Other key assumptions future sales prices and volumes operating margins cost structure and productivity The first five years of the cash-flow forecasts are based on our annual planning and strategic planning processes.
The growth rates used to estimate future performance beyond this period do not exceed the long-term average growth rates for similar projects and do not reflect long-term planning assumptions used by the Group for investment planning.
Sales projections are made with reference to specific customer relationships and product lines.
Sensitivity analysis performed around the base case assumptions has indicated that no reasonable changes in key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of the Smiths Medical Critical Care and Smiths Detection Civil CGUs to exceed their respective recoverable amount.
The balance of the goodwill represents smaller individual amounts which have been allocated to specific operating companies and smaller CGUs.
These amounts are tested for impairment at this level.
