SOCO International plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Company Information Advisors Auditors Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland International PO Box 64 Royal Bank House Registered Office 71 Bath Street SOCO International plc St Helier St Jamess House Jersey 23 King Street JE4 8PJ London Channel Islands SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom JPMorgan 125 London Wall Registered in England London Company No.
3300821 EC2Y 5AY United Kingdom Website Registrar www.
co. uk Joint Financial Advisors and Corporate Equiniti Limited Brokers Aspect House Company Secretary Bank of America Merrill Lynch Spencer Road Cynthia B Cagle Merrill Lynch Financial Centre Lancing 2 King Edward Street BN99 6DA Financial Calendar London United Kingdom Group results for the year to 31 December are EC1A 1HQ announced in March April.
The Annual General United Kingdom Solicitors Meeting is held during the second quarter.
Half Ashurst year results to 30 June are announced in August.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove Limited Broadwalk House Additionally, the Group will issue an interim 20 Moorgate 5 Appold Street management statement between ten weeks after London London the beginning and six weeks before the end of EC2R 6DA EC2A 2HA each half year period.
United Kingdom United Kingdom Disclaimer This document includes certain forward-looking statements regarding the SOCO Group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forwardlooking statements contained in this document regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking Design and production statements, which speak as only of the date of Wardour, London this document.
Except as required by law, the www.
co. uk Company is under no obligation to publicly update or keep current the forward-looking statements Photography contained in this document or to publicly correct Cover and location photography South East Asia any inaccuracies which may become apparent in John Hepler such forward-looking statements.
Location photography Africa Jean Yves Brochec Board and Management photography Andy Lane and Jean Yves Brochec This report is printed on Heaven 42 which is sourced from well managed forests independently Print certified according to the rules of the Forest Royle Corporate Print Stewardship Council Disclaimer.
SOCO International plc St Jamess House 23 King Street London SW1Y 6QY United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7747 2000 F 44 0 20 7747 2001 www.
