128 Financial Statements Accounting All significant operating decisions are taken IFRS 2 Amendment regarding Vesting by the SET.
While members of the SET have Conditions and Cancellations, IAS 23 Policies responsibility for implementation of decisions Borrowing Costs revised 2007, in their respective areas, operating decisionAmendments to IAS 36 Impairment of making is at SET level as a whole.
Where Assets, Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Basis of accounting and preparation necessary these are implemented through Benefits, Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible of financial information cross-functional sub-committees that consider Assets and Amendments to IAS 32 The Consolidated Financial Statements have the group-wide impact of a new decision.
Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 been prepared under the historical cost For example, product launch decisions Presentation of Financial Statements have convention, modified to include revaluation would be initially considered by the SET all been adopted, none of which have had a to fair value of certain financial instruments and, on approval, passed to an appropriate significant effect on the Groups profit for the as described below, in accordance with the sub-team for implementation.
The impacts period, net assets or cash flows.
Companies Act 2006 and International of being able to develop, produce, deliver Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and commercialise a wide range of IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes, adopted by the European Union adopted pharmaceutical products drive the SET IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of IFRS in response to the IAS regulation decision-making process.
Real Estate and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net EC 1606 2002.
The Consolidated Financial Investment in a Foreign Operation have all Statements also comply fully with IFRSs as In assessing performance, the SET reviews been adopted but have had no impact on issued by the International Accounting financial information on an integrated basis the overall reported results.
for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the The Company has elected to prepare the The Company has applied IAS 1 Presentation Groups IFRS Financial Statements.
The high Company Financial Statements in accordance of Financial Statements revised 2007 which upfront cost of discovering and developing with UK Accounting Standards.
These are has introduced a number of terminology new products coupled with the relatively presented on pages 188 to 192 and the changes including titles for the financial insignificant and stable unit cost of production accounting policies in respect of Company statements and has resulted in a number means that there is not the clear link that exists information are set out on page 189. of changes in presentation and disclosure.
in many manufacturing businesses between The revised standard has had no impact on the revenue generated on an individual The Consolidated Financial Statements the Groups profit for the period, net assets product sale and the associated cost and are presented in US dollars, which is the or cash flows.
hence margin generated on a product.
Consequently the profitability of individual During the year the Company has adopted drugs or classes of drugs is not considered In preparing their individual financial IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 requires a key measure of performance for the statements, the accounting policies of an entity to report financial and descriptive business and is not monitored by the SET.
some overseas subsidiaries do not conform information about its reportable segments.
Therefore, where Reportable segments are operating segments Resources are allocated on a group-wide appropriate, adjustments are made in order or aggregations of operating segments that basis according to need.
In particular, capital to present the Group Financial Statements meet specified criteria.
In addressing these expenditure, in-licensing, and research and on a consistent basis.
criteria, it was determined that AstraZeneca development resources are allocated between is engaged in a single business activity of activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic Basis for preparation of financial pharmaceuticals and that the Group does statements on a going concern basis considerations and strategy under the aegis not have multiple operating segments.
Our of the Groups Research & Development Information on the business environment pharmaceuticals business consists of the Executive Committee to facilitate a group-wide AstraZeneca operates in, including the factors discovery and development of new products, single combined discovery and development underpinning the industrys future growth which are then manufactured, marketed and prospects, are included in the Directors Report.
The Groups recent acquisitions in the sold.
All of these functional activities take biologics area, MedImmune and Cambridge Details of the product portfolio of the Group, place and are managed globally on a highly Antibody Technology Group plc, have been our approach to product development and integrated basis.
We do not manage these integrated into the existing management our development pipeline are covered in individual functional areas separately.
detail with additional information by Therapy structure of AstraZeneca both for allocation of resources and for assessment and Area in the Directors Report.
We consider that the Senior Executive monitoring of performance purposes.
As Team SET is AstraZenecas chief operating such, although biologics is a relatively new The financial position of the Group, its cash decision-making body as defined by IFRS 8. flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities technological area for the Group, it does not The operation of the SET is principally driven operate as a separate operating segment.
are described in the Financial Review.
In by the management of the commercial addition, Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial operations, research and development, The amendments to IFRS 7 Improving Statements include the Groups objectives, and manufacturing and supply.
The SET policies and processes for managing its Disclosures about Financial Instruments also includes Finance, HR and General have been adopted and have resulted in capital, its financial risk management Counsel representation.
objectives, details of its financial instruments AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 129 and hedging activities and its exposures Further information on critical judgements Research and development to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further made in applying accounting policies, Research expenditure is recognised in profit details of the Groups cash balances and including details of significant methods and in the year in which it is incurred.
borrowings are included in Notes 13 and assumptions used, is included in Notes 6, 8, 14 of the Financial Statements.
The financial risk Internal development expenditure is capitalised management policies are detailed in Note 15. only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS The Group has considerable financial resources 38 Intangible Assets.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group Revenue other uncertainties are such that the criteria has $12.3 billion in financial resources cash Revenues comprise sales and income are not met the expenditure is recognised in balances of $9.9 billion and committed bank under co-promotion and co-development profit and this is almost invariably the case facilities of $4.25 billion, with $1.9 billion of agreements.
prior to approval of the drug by the relevant debt due within one year.
Where, however, revenues are largely derived from sales of Income under co-promotion and corecognition criteria are met, intangible assets products which are covered by patents and for development agreements is recognised are capitalised and amortised on a straightwhich, historically at least, demand has been when it is earned as defined in the contract line basis over their useful economic lives from relatively unaffected by changes in the and can be reliably estimated.
As at 31 December 2009, general economy.
In addition, the Group has this is upon the sale of the co-promoted no amounts have met recognition criteria.
a wide diversity of customers and suppliers developed product or upon the delivery of across different geographic areas.
As a a promotional or developmental service.
Payments to in-license products and consequence, the Directors believe that the compounds from external third parties, Group is well placed to manage its business Revenues exclude inter-company revenues generally taking the form of up-front payments risks successfully despite the current and value-added taxes and represent net and milestones, are capitalised.
Since these uncertain economic outlook.
invoice value less estimated rebates, returns products and compounds will only generate and settlement discounts.
Revenues are sales and cash inflows following launch, if it After making enquiries, the Directors have recognised when the significant risks and is in AstraZenecas control to do so, our a reasonable expectation that the Company rewards of ownership have been transferred policy is to minimise the period between final and the Group have adequate resources to to a third party.
In general this is upon delivery approval and launch.
These assets are continue in operational existence for the of the products to wholesalers.
In markets amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue where returns are significant currently only over their useful economic lives from product to adopt the going concern basis in preparing in the US, estimates of returns are accounted launch.
Under this policy, it is not possible to the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
for at the point revenue is recognised.
In determine precise economic lives for individual markets where returns are not significant classes of intangible assets.
However, lives Estimates and judgements they are recorded when returned.
range from three years to 20 years.
These The preparation of the Financial Statements in assets are not used in the research and conformity with generally accepted accounting When a product faces generic competition development activities of other products.
principles requires management to make particular attention is given to the possible estimates and judgements that affect the levels of returns and, in cases where the Intangible assets relating to products in reported amounts of assets and liabilities circumstances are such that the level of development both internally generated and at the date of the Financial Statements and returns and, hence, revenue cannot be externally acquired are subject to impairment the reported amounts of revenues and measured reliably, revenues are only testing annually.
All intangible assets are expenses during the reporting period.
Actual recognised when the right of return expires tested for impairment when there are results could differ from those estimates.
which is generally on ultimate prescription of indications that the carrying value may not the product to patients.
Any impairment losses are Judgements include classification of recognised immediately in profit.
Intangible transactions between profit and the For the US market we estimate the quantity assets relating to products which fail during consolidated statement of financial position, and value of goods which may ultimately be development or for which development whilst estimates focus on areas such as returned at the point of sale.
Our returns ceases for other reasons are tested for carrying values and estimated lives.
accruals are based on actual experience over impairment at the point of termination and the preceding 12 months for established are written down to their fair value which is AstraZenecas management considers products together with market-related usually zero.
the following to be the most important information such as estimated stock levels at accounting policies in the context of the wholesalers and competitor activity which we Business combinations and goodwill Groups operations.
receive via third-party information services.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values For newly launched products, we use rates are attributed to the identifiable assets and The accounting policy descriptions set out based on our experience with similar products liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the the areas where judgement needs exercising, or a pre-determined percentage.
fair value cannot be measured reliably in which the most significant of which are revenue case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
recognition, research and development, Where fair values of acquired contingent business combinations and goodwill, litigation liabilities cannot be measured reliably, the and environmental liabilities, employee assumed contingent liability is not recognised benefits, taxation and share-based payments.
but is disclosed in the same manner as other contingent liabilities.
Goodwill is the difference between consideration paid and the fair value of net assets acquired.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 130 Financial Statements Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised policy it becomes impractical to calculate and subject to an impairment review, both in respect of temporary differences average asset lives exactly.
However, the total annually and when there is an indication that associated with investments in subsidiaries, lives range from approximately 10 to 50 years the carrying value may not be recoverable.
branches and joint ventures where the Group for buildings, and three to 13 years for plant Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December is able to control the timing of reversal of the and equipment.
All items of property, plant 2002, goodwill was amortised over its temporary differences and it is probable that and equipment are tested for impairment estimated useful life: such amortisation ceased the temporary differences will not reverse in when there are indications that the carrying on 31 December 2002. the foreseeable future.
value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in profit.
The Groups policy up to and including The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon are calculated using tax rates that are Borrowing costs acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 expected to apply in the period when the The Group has no borrowing costs with First-time Adoption of International Financial liability is settled or the asset realised based respect to the acquisition or construction Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business on tax rates that have been enacted or of qualifying assets.
All other borrowing Combinations, such goodwill will remain substantively enacted by the reporting date.
costs are recognised in profit as incurred eliminated against reserves.
and in accordance with the effective interest Accruals for tax contingencies require rate method.
Employee benefits management to make judgements and The Group accounts for pensions and other estimates of ultimate exposures in relation Leases employee benefits principally healthcare to tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not Rentals under operating leases are charged to under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
In respect recognised unless the tax positions will profit on a straight-line basis.
of defined benefit plans, obligations are probably be sustained.
Once considered to measured at discounted present value whilst be probable, management reviews each Subsidiaries plan assets are measured at fair value.
The material tax benefit to assess whether a A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly operating and financing costs of such plans provision should be taken against full or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
Control is are recognised separately in profit: current recognition of that benefit on the basis of regarded as the power to govern the service costs are spread systematically over potential settlement through negotiation financial and operating policies of the entity the lives of employees and financing costs and or litigation.
All provisions are included in so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
are recognised in full in the periods in which current liabilities.
Any recorded exposure to they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the The financial results of subsidiaries are recognised immediately in other tax charge.
See Note 25 for further details.
consolidated from the date control is comprehensive income.
obtained until the date that control ceases.
Share-based payments Where the calculation results in a benefit to All plans are assessed and have been Inventories the Group, the recognised asset is limited to classified as equity settled.
The grant date fair Inventories are stated at the lower of cost the present value of any available future value of employee share option awards is and net realisable value.
The first in, first out refunds from the plan or reductions in future generally calculated using the Black-Scholes or an average method of valuation is used.
In accordance with IFRS 2 ShareFor finished goods and work in progress, defined contribution plans are recognised in based Payment, the resulting cost is cost includes directly attributable costs profit as they fall due.
recognised in profit over the vesting period and certain overhead expenses including of the options, being the period in which the depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain Taxation services are received.
The value of the charge other overhead expenses principally central The current tax payable is based on taxable is adjusted to reflect expected and actual administration costs are excluded.
Taxable profit differs from levels of awards vesting, except where the realisable value is determined as estimated Reported profit because it excludes items failure to vest is as a result of not meeting selling price less all estimated costs of that are never taxable or tax deductible.
Cancellations of equity completion and costs to be incurred in Groups current tax assets and liabilities are instruments are treated as an acceleration selling and distribution.
calculated using tax rates that have been of the vesting period and any outstanding enacted or substantively enacted by the charge is recognised in profit immediately.
Write-downs of inventory occur in the general reporting date.
course of business and are recognised in Property, plant and equipment cost of sales.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance The Groups policy is to write off the difference sheet liability method, providing for temporary between the cost of each item of property, Trade and other receivables differences between the carrying amounts plant and equipment and its residual value Trade and other receivables are recognised of assets and liabilities for financial reporting systematically over its estimated useful life.
Subsequent to initial purposes and the amounts used for taxation Assets under construction are not depreciated.
recognition they are measured at amortised purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised cost using the effective interest rate method, to the extent that it is probable that taxable Reviews are made annually of the estimated less any impairment losses.
profit will be available against which the asset remaining lives and residual values of can be utilised.
This requires judgements to individual productive assets, taking account of Trade and other payables be made in respect of the availability of future commercial and technological obsolescence Trade and other payables are recognised taxable income.
as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 131 Financial instruments Bank and other borrowings Foreign currencies The Groups financial instruments include The Group uses derivatives, principally Foreign currency transactions, being interests in leases and rights and obligations interest rate swaps, to hedge the interest transactions denominated in a currency under employee benefit plans which are rate exposure inherent in a portion of its other than an individual Group entitys dealt with in specific accounting policies.
In such cases the functional currency, are translated into the Group will either designate the debt as fair relevant functional currencies of individual The Groups other financial instruments value through profit or loss when certain Group entities at average rates for the include: criteria are met or as the hedged item under relevant monthly accounting periods, which a fair value hedge.
Cash and cash equivalents Fixed deposits If the debt instrument is designated as fair Monetary assets, arising from foreign Other investments value through profit, the debt is initially currency transactions, are retranslated at Loans and borrowings measured at fair value with direct transaction exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
costs being included in profit as an expense Exchange gains and losses on loans and on and is remeasured to fair value at each short-term foreign currency borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents reporting date with changes in carrying value deposits are included within finance Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash being recognised in profit along with changes expense.
Exchange differences on all other in hand, current balances with banks and in the fair value of the related derivative.
Such foreign currency transactions are taken to similar institutions and highly liquid investments a designation has been made where this operating profit in the individual Group with maturities of three months or less when significantly reduces an accounting mismatch entitys accounting records.
They are readily convertible into which would result from recognising gains known amounts of cash and are held at and losses on different bases.
Non-monetary items arising from foreign amortised cost.
currency transactions are not retranslated If the debt is designated as the hedged item in the individual Group entitys accounting Fixed deposits under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially records.
Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds measured at fair value with direct transaction held with banks and other financial institutions, costs being amortised over the life of the In the Consolidated Financial Statements, are initially measured at fair value including bonds, and is remeasured for fair value income and expense items for Group direct transaction costs and are subsequently changes in respect of the hedged risk at each entities with a functional currency other than remeasured to amortised cost using the reporting date with changes in carrying value US dollars, are translated into US dollars at effective interest rate method at each being recognised in profit along with changes average exchange rates, which approximate reporting date.
Changes in carrying value in the fair value of the related derivative.
to actual rates, for the relevant accounting are recognised in profit.
Assets and liabilities are translated If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar at the US exchange rates prevailing at the Other investments denominated loans are designated as net reporting date.
Exchange differences arising Where investments have been classified as investment hedges of foreign operations.
on consolidation are taken in other held for trading, they are measured initially Exchange differences arising on recomprehensive income.
at fair value and subsequently at fair value.
translation of net investments and of foreign Changes in fair value are recognised in profit.
currency loans which are designated in an Exchange differences arising on retranslation effective net investment hedge relationship, of net investments in subsidiaries and of In all other circumstances, the investments are are recognised in other comprehensive foreign currency loans which are designated initially measured at fair value including direct income.
All other exchange differences in an effective hedge relationship are taken transaction costs and are subsequently giving rise to changes in the carrying value in other comprehensive income in the remeasured to fair value at each reporting of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are Consolidated Financial Statements.
Changes in carrying value due to recognised in profit.
and losses accumulated in the translation changes in exchange rates or impairments reserve will be recycled to profit when the are recognised in profit.
All other changes Other interest-bearing loans are initially foreign operation is sold.
in fair value are recognised in other measured at fair value including direct comprehensive income.
transaction costs and are subsequently Litigation and environmental liabilities remeasured to amortised cost using the Through the normal course of business, Impairments are recorded in profit when there effective interest rate method at each AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, is a decline in the value of an investment that reporting date.
Changes in carrying value the settlement of which may involve cost is deemed to be other than temporary.
On are recognised in profit.
Provision is made where disposal of the investment, the cumulative an adverse outcome is probable and amount recognised in other comprehensive Derivatives associated costs, including related legal income is recognised in profit as part of the Derivatives are initially measured at fair value costs, can be estimated reliably.
In other gain or loss on disposal.
with direct transaction costs being included cases, appropriate disclosures are included.
in profit as an expense and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at Where it is considered that the Group is more each reporting date.
Changes in carrying likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved value are recognised in profit.
in defending the claim are charged to profit as they are incurred.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 132 Financial Statements Where it is considered that the Group has Cumulative exchange differences An amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets a valid contract which provides the right to the Group chose to set the cumulative Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations reimbursement from insurance or otherwise exchange difference reserve at 1 January was issued in May 2008 and provides of legal costs and or all or part of any loss 2003 to zero.
clarification that assets and liabilities of a incurred or for which a provision has been subsidiary should be classified as held for established, the best estimate of the amount Accounting standards sale if the Parent is committed to a plan expected to be received is recognised as and interpretations issued involving loss of control of the subsidiary, an asset.
but not yet adopted regardless of whether the entity will retain A revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations was a non-controlling interest after the sale.
AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental issued in January 2008.
The following changes The amendment is effective for accounting liabilities relating to its past operations, will be relevant to the Groups operations: periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 principally in respect of soil and groundwater and will not have a significant impact upon remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs Contingent consideration will be measured the net results, net assets or disclosures are made when there is a present obligation at fair value, with subsequent changes to of AstraZeneca.
and where it is probable that expenditure on the fair value being recognised in profit.
remedial work will be required and a reliable Transaction costs, other than share The amendment to IAS 39 Financial estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions and debt issue costs, will be expensed Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are discounted where the effect is material.
Eligible Hedged Items deals with two Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree situations where diversity in practice exists Impairment will be measured at fair value with the gain on the designation of inflation as a hedged The carrying value of non-financial assets, or loss recognised in profit.
risk and the treatment of one-sided risks on other than inventories and deferred tax assets, Any non-controlling minority interest will hedged items.
The amendment is effective are reviewed at least annually to determine be measured at either fair value, or at its for accounting periods beginning on or whether there is any indication of impairment.
proportionate interest in the identifiable after 1 July 2009.
The amendment is not For goodwill, intangible assets under assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on expected to have a significant impact upon development and for any other assets a  basis.
the net results, net assets or disclosures where such indication exists, the assets of AstraZeneca.
recoverable amount is estimated based on the The revised Standard is effective for greater of its value in use and its fair value less AstraZeneca business combinations on or Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations cost to sell.
In assessing value in use, the after 1 January 2010 and will be applied was endorsed by the EU during 2009. estimated future cash flows, adjusted for the prospectively from that date.
The amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated risks specific to each asset, are discounted to and Separate Financial Statements 2008, their present value using a discount rate that An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and reflects current market assessments of the Separate Financial Statements 2008 was Measurement Eligible Hedged Items and time value of money and the general risks issued in January 2008.
The amendment IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and affecting the pharmaceutical industry.
For the requires changes in ownership interests in Discontinued Operations were endorsed by purpose of impairment testing, assets are a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to the EU in 2009.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments grouped together into the smallest group be recognised as an equity transaction.
has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
of assets that generates cash inflows from If control of a subsidiary is lost, any retained continuing use that are largely independent interest is measured at fair value with the gain The following IFRIC interpretations have of the cash flows of other assets.
Impairment or loss recognised in profit.
The amendment been issued but are not yet adopted losses are recognised in profit.
is effective for accounting periods beginning by AstraZeneca: on or after 1 July 2009 and will not have a International accounting transition significant impact upon the net results, net Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of On transition to using adopted IFRS in the assets or disclosures of AstraZeneca.
year ended 31 December 2005, the Company IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash took advantage of several optional exemptions A revised IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Assets to Owners.
available in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities International Financial Reporting Standards.
was issued in November 2008 and will have with Equity Instruments.
The major impacts which are of continuing no impact on AstraZeneca.
importance are detailed below: The interpretations are effective for accounting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in periods commencing on or after 1 January Business combinations IFRS 3 Business November 2009.
It is applicable to financial 2011, 1 July 2009 and 1 July 2010 Combinations has been applied from assets and requires classification and respectively.
IFRIC 17 is not expected to 1 January 2003, the date of transition, rather measurement in either the amortised cost have a significant impact upon adoption.
than being applied fully retrospectively.
or the fair value category.
It is effective for As a result, the combination of Astra and accounting periods beginning on or after There is no impact expected from any Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, 1 January 2013.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is not other standards that are available for early rather than through purchase accounting.
expected to have a significant impact upon adoption but that have not been adopted.
If purchase accounting had been adopted, the net results or net assets of AstraZeneca.
Zeneca would have been deemed to have acquired Astra.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
