206 Additional Information Glossary Market definitions North America Rest of World Other Established Markets Emerging Markets Emerging Western Europe Japan Australasia Emerging Europe China Asia Pacific Other Emerging US Austria Japan Australia Albania China Bangladesh Egypt Canada Belgium New Zealand Belarus Cambodia Gulf States Denmark Bosnia-Herzegovina Hong Kong Latin America Finland Bulgaria India Lebanon France Croatia Indonesia Maghreb Germany Czech Republic Laos Saudi Arabia Greece Estonia Malaysia South Africa Holland Georgia Philippines Iceland Hungary Singapore Ireland Kazakhstan South Korea Italy Latvia Sri Lanka Luxembourg Lithuania Taiwan Norway Macedonia Thailand Portugal Poland Vietnam Spain Romania Sweden Russia Switzerland Serbia Montenegro UK Slovakia Slovenia Turkey Ukraine Established Markets means North America and Other Established Markets.
Latin America includes Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Venezuela.
Gulf States includes Bahrain, Dubai, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and UAE.
Maghreb means Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.
IMS Health data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Bank borrowings Payable to banks Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Current instalments of loans Long-term debt due within one year Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Finance lease Capital lease Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Interest receivable Interest income Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of income Reserves Retained earnings Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Additional Information 207 The following abbreviations and expressions have the FDA means the US Food and Drug Administration, date of relevant patent expiry.
Analogous provisions are following meanings when used in this Annual Report: which is part of the US Department of Health and available in certain other territories.
Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory Abbott means Abbott Pharmaceuticals PR Ltd. authority for all pharmaceuticals including biologics Patent Term Extension means an extension of up to with respect to Trilipix and or Certriad and Abbott and vaccines and medical devices in the US.
five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug Laboratories, Inc. with respect to Crestor.
which compensates for delays in marketing resulting Forest means Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
from the need to obtain FDA approval.
ADR means an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
GAAP means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Phase I means the phase of clinical research where a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of ADS means an American Depositary Share GDP means gross domestic product.
people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can achieve representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a GIA means AstraZenecas group internal audit.
safe dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase AGM means an Annual General Meeting includes healthy volunteer studies.
gross margin means the margin, as a percentage, by which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated by Phase II means the phase of clinical research which Alcon means Alcon Research, Ltd. dividing the difference between the two by the sales figure.
includes the controlled clinical activities conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in patients with ANDA means an abbreviated new drug application, Group means AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
the disease under study and to determine the common which is a marketing approval application for a generic short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug submitted to the FDA.
IAS means the International Accounting Standards.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in a relatively small number of patients usually no more Annual Report means this Annual Report and Form IASB means the International Accounting than several hundred.
Phase III means the phase of clinical research which Array means Array BioPharma Inc. IFRS means the International Financial Reporting is performed to gather additional information about Standards or an International Financial Reporting effectiveness and safety of the drug, often in a Articles means the Articles of Association of the Standard, as the context requires.
comparative setting, to evaluate the overall benefit Company.
Phase III studies usually Jubilant means Jubilant Biosys Ltd. include between several hundred and several Astellas means Astellas Pharma, Inc. thousand patients.
KPI means key performance indicator.
Astra means Astra AB, being the company with whom pounds sterling, GBP, pence or p means the Company merged in 1999.
KPMG means KPMG Audit Plc.
references to the currency of the UK.
AstraZeneca means the Company and its subsidiaries.
Listing Standards means the corporate governance R&D means research and development.
and listing standards of the NYSE.
BMS means Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Redeemable Preference Share means a redeemable MAA means a marketing authorisation application, preference share of 1 each in the share capital of Board means the Board of Directors of the Company.
which is an application for authorisation to place the Company.
medical products on the market.
This is a specific term CEO means the Chief Executive Officer of the used in the EU and European Economic Area markets.
Regulatory Exclusivity means any of the intellectual Company.
property rights arising from generation of clinical data MAb means monoclonal antibody, a biologic that and includes Regulatory Data Protection as explained CER means constant exchange rates.
is specific: that is, it binds to and attacks one in the Intellectual property section on page 31, particular antigen.
Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
CFO means the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
MedImmune means MedImmune, LLC formerly Salix means Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CHMP means the Committee for Medicinal Products MedImmune, Inc.. for Human Use, being a committee of the EMEA.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act means the US Sarbanes-Oxley Merck means Merck Sharp & Dohne Corp formerly Act of 2002.
Code of Conduct means the Groups Code of Conduct.
Merck & Co. Inc.. SEC means the US Securities and Exchange Combined Code means the UK Combined Code on moving annual total MAT means a figure that Commission, the governmental agency that regulates Corporate Governance that sets out standards of good represents the financial value of a variable for 12 months.
the US securities industry stock market.
practice in corporate governance for the UK.
NDA means a new drug application to the FDA SET means the Senior Executive Team.
Company means AstraZeneca PLC formerly Zeneca for approval to market a new medicine in the US.
SG&A costs means selling, general and administrative Nektar means Nektar Therapeutics.
Complete Response Letter means a letter issued by the FDA communicating their decision to a drug company NGOs means non-governmental organisations.
sNDA means a supplemental new drug application, that its NDA or biological licensing application is not which is an application made to the FDA to seek approvable as submitted.
The submitting drug company Novexel means Novexel S. A. approval to market an additional indication for a drug is required to respond to the Complete Response Letter already on the market.
if it wishes to pursue an approval for its submission.
NSAID means a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
Targacept means Targacept Inc. cost growth rates means percentage growth of a NYSE means the New York Stock Exchange.
particular cost category over the comparable cost Teva means Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. category for the previous year.
operating profit means sales, less cost of sales, less operating costs, plus operating income.
TSR means total shareholder return, being the total Dako means Dako Denmark A S. return on a share over a period of time, including Ordinary Share means an ordinary share of $0.25 each dividends re-invested.
Director means a director of the Company.
in the share capital of the Company.
UCB means UCB Pharma S. A. earnings per share EPS means profit for the year Orphan Drug means a drug which has been approved after tax and minority interests, divided by the weighted for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan UK means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during indication and has been rewarded with a period of Northern Ireland.
market exclusivity: the period of exclusivity and the available orphan indications vary between markets.
US means the United States of America.
EMEA means the European Medicines Agency.
US dollar, US$, USD or $ means references to the EU means the European Union.
Paediatric Exclusivity means, in the US, a six-month period of exclusivity to market a drug which is awarded WHO means the World Health Organization, the United by the FDA in return for certain paediatric clinical studies Nations specialised agency for health.
This six-month period runs from the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
