Financial Statements 189 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Group Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB and are presented on pages 128 to 132.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
New accounting standards The Company has adopted the following accounting standards in the year: The Amendments to FRS 2 Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings, FRS 6 Acquisitions and Mergers, FRS 20 IFRS 2 Amendment regarding Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, FRS 28 Corresponding Amounts, FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, UITF Abstract 42 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and FRS 26 IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
The adoptions have no impact on the net results or net assets of the Company.
The Amendments to FRS 20 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions and FRS 30 Heritage Assets have been issued but not yet adopted by the Company.
Foreign currencies Profit and loss account items in foreign currencies are translated into US dollars at average rates for the relevant accounting periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and on short-term foreign currency borrowings and deposits are included within net interest payable.
Exchange differences on all other transactions, except relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting purposes.
Full provision is made for the effects of these differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not that the amount will be realised in the future.
These estimates require judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable income.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless the tax positions will probably be sustained.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of that benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
All provisions are included in creditors due within one year.
Investments Fixed asset investments, including investments in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Share-based payments The issuance by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries of a grant over the Companys options, represents additional capital contributions by the Company to its subsidiaries.
An additional investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grants vesting period.
Financial instruments Loans and other receivables are held at amortised cost.
Long-term loans payable are held at amortised cost.
Litigation Through the normal course of business, AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, the settlement of which may involve cost to the Company.
Provision is made where an adverse outcome is probable and associated costs can be estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate descriptions are included.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
