166 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities 2009 2008 2007 $m $m $m Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 739 332 571 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with contingent consideration, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sale levels achieved.
AstraZeneca generally has the right to terminate these agreements at no cost.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Arrangements with Merck Introduction In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. now Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. a subsidiary of the new Merck & Co. Inc. that resulted from the merger with Schering-Plough Merck for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured Restructuring.
Under the agreements relating to the Restructuring Agreements, a US limited partnership Partnership was formed, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the Partnership and place limitations on AstraZenecas commercial freedom to operate.
The Agreements provided for: A payment to Merck in the event of a business combination between Astra and a third party in order for Merck to relinquish certain claims to that third partys products.
Termination arrangements which cause Merck to relinquish its interests in AstraZenecas products and activities in stages, some of which are mandatory and others optional.
These elements are discussed in further detail below, together with a summary of their accounting treatments.
Payment in the event of a business combination On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time lump sum payment of $809m was triggered.
As a result of this payment, Merck relinquished any claims it may have had to Zeneca products.
This payment was expensed at the point of merger since it caused no incremental benefits over the prior years aggregate Astra and Zeneca performance to accrue to the merged AstraZeneca entity.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the merger of Astra and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium could not be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
AstraZenecas payments exceeded the minimum level in all years.
AstraZeneca will continue to make contingent payments to Merck until at least 2012.
Contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium will cease in 2010 if AstraZeneca exercises the First Option as discussed under First Option below : contingent payments in respect of Prilosec and Nexium will cease in 2012 if AstraZeneca exercises the Second Option at that time as discussed under Second Option below.
The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Termination arrangements The Agreements provided for arrangements and payments under which, subject to the exercise of certain options, the rights and interests in AstraZenecas activities and products held by Merck immediately prior to the merger would be terminated, including details of: the Advance Payment: the Partial Retirement: the True-Up: the Loan Note Receivable: the First Option: the Second Option.
Advance Payment The merger between Astra and Zeneca in 1999 triggered the first step in the termination arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to potential Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As a result, AstraZeneca now has rights to such products and is relieved of potential obligations to Merck and restrictions in respect of those products including annual contingent payments, affording AstraZeneca substantial freedom to exploit the products as it sees fit.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 167 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment was paid.
It was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% per annum and amounted to $967m.
It was subject to a true-up in 2008 as discussed under True-Up below.
Partial Retirement In March 2008, there was a partial retirement of Mercks limited partnership interest by payment to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
The amount payable under the Partial Retirement was estimated to be $4.3bn in the 2007 Financial Statements.
Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights in respect of certain of the agreement products ended.
The products covered by the Partial Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort.
True-Up In 2008, in accordance with the Agreements, there was a True-Up of the Advance Payment.
The True-Up amount was based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
In accordance with the Agreements, the calculated amount was then reduced by the Appraised Value as discussed under First Option below, the Partial Retirement and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn.
This True-Up amount was settled in an amount equal to $241m owed by Merck to AstraZeneca.
The amount payable under the True-Up was estimated to be $0.2bn in the 2007 Financial Statements, payable by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Loan Note Receivable Included in the assets and liabilities covered by the Restructuring was a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.38bn.
In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the True-Up, Merck settled the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.38bn.
If Merck had exercised the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment that would have been made to Merck would have been $3.3bn, being the minimum combined payments of $4.7bn specified in the Agreements on the Partial Retirement, the True-Up and First Option, less the repayment of the loan note of $1.38bn.
In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired.
At that time, the loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance sheet, because it was estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the rights to be acquired under the Partial Retirement, True-Up and First Option.
First Option In accordance with the Agreements, in 2008 a calculation was made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
The Appraised Value was calculated in 2008 as $647m.
Payment of the Appraised Value to Merck in March 2008 would have taken place only if Merck had exercised the First Option in 2008.
Merck did not exercise this option.
AstraZeneca may exercise the First Option in the first two months of 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option, it expects to consummate this option in April 2010.
Upon consummation of the First Option, Merck will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, other than Nexium and Prilosec and the right to receive contingent payments in respect of felodipine AG Mercks continuing contingent payment interest in respect of the authorised generic version of felodipine is the result of Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. becoming the exclusive US distributor of the authorised generic version of felodipine, which arrangement is expected to end in June 2011.
Products covered by the First Option include Entocort, Atacand, Plendil and certain compounds still in development including Brilinta, AZD3355, AZD6765 and AZD2327.
If AstraZeneca does not exercise the First Option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue as will AstraZenecas other obligations and restrictions in respect of these products and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
Second Option Provided that the First Option is exercised, AstraZeneca may exercise a Second Option to repurchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca in 2012, or in 2017, or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount.
AstraZenecas consummation of the Second Option will end the contingent payments in respect of Prilosec and Nexium and will effectively end AstraZenecas relationship with, and obligations to, Merck other than some residual manufacturing arrangements.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the net present value of the future annual contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is consummated, Merck will then have relinquished all its interests in the Partnership and the agreement products, including rights to contingent payments.
The exercise price of the Second Option cannot be determined at this time.
Accounting treatment of termination arrangements AstraZeneca considers that the termination arrangements described above represent the acquisition, in stages, of Mercks interests in the Partnership and agreement products including Mercks rights to contingent payments and depend, in part, on the exercise of the First and Second Options.
The effects will only be reflected in the financial statements as these stages are reached.
If and when all such payments are made, AstraZeneca will have unencumbered discretion in its operations in the US market.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 168 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that accrue under all of the termination arrangements arise: Currently, from the substantial freedom over products acquired or discovered post-merger.
On occurrence of each stage of such arrangements, from enhanced contributions from, and substantial freedom over, those products that have already been launched for example, Pulmicort, Symbicort, Rhinocort and Atacand, and those that are in development.
Economic benefits include relief from contingent payments, anticipated cost savings from cessation of manufacturing arrangements and other cost efficiencies, together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate.
The Advance Payment has been accounted for as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact that, under the Agreements, AstraZeneca has acquired rights relieving it of potential obligations and restrictions in respect of Astra products with no existing or pending patents at the time of merger.
Although these rights apply in perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 years has been chosen to reflect the typical timescale of development and marketing of a product.
The net payment made in 2008, consisting of the Partial Retirement of $4.271bn less the True-Up of $241m and loan note receivable of $1.38bn, in total $2.6bn, has been capitalised as intangible assets.
Part of the net payment made in 2008 resulted in AstraZeneca acquiring Mercks interests in certain AstraZeneca products, including Pulmicort, Rhinocort, Symbicort and Toprol-XL.
Consequently AstraZeneca no longer has to make contingent payments on these products to Merck and has obtained the ability to fully exploit these products and to fully exploit other opportunities in the Respiratory therapy area that AstraZeneca was previously prevented from doing by Mercks interests in these products.
Intangible assets aggregating $994m have been recognised in respect of these acquired product rights and these are being amortised over various periods, giving rise to an annual expense of approximately $60m going forward.
The balance of the net payment made in 2008 represents a payment on account for the product rights that will be acquired in the event that the First and Second Options are exercised by AstraZeneca.
Intangible assets aggregating $1.656bn were recognised in 2008.
This balance will not be subject to amortisation until each of the options is exercised and the related product rights are acquired.
If the First Option is not exercised, all the payments on account will be expensed immediately.
If after the First Option is exercised but it becomes probable that the Second Option will not be exercised, the payments on account for the product rights to be acquired under the Second Option will be expensed immediately.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for implementing internal systems and programmes and meeting legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for carrying out the Groups research, manufacturing and commercial operations and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2007, 2008 or 2009.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca has environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
In the US, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 19 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocation schemes together, US Environmental Consequences.
Similarly, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 28 sites where SMC is likely to incur US Environmental Consequences.
Outside the US, AstraZeneca has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 22 sites.
These environmental liabilities arise from legacy operations that are not part of the Groups current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where a present obligation exists, it is probable that such costs will be incurred and they can be estimated reliably.
With respect to such estimated future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2009 in the aggregate of $101m, which mainly relate to the US.
These provisions do not include possible additional costs that are not currently probable.
Where we are jointly liable or otherwise have cost sharing agreements with third parties, we reflect only our share of the obligation.
Where the liability is insured in part or in whole by insurance or other arrangements for reimbursement, an asset is recognised to the extent that this recovery is virtually certain.
It is possible that AstraZeneca could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether AstraZeneca has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: and 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss for future environmental investigation, remediation and remedial operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions could be, in aggregate, in the order of $10-25m, which relates solely to the US.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 169 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including actual or threatened litigation and or actual or potential government investigations relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, pricing, sales and marketing practices, infringement of intellectual property rights, the validity of certain patents and anti-trust laws.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
Most of the claims involve highly complex issues.
Often, these issues are subject to substantial uncertainties and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being sustained and an estimate of the amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain.
Consequently, for a majority of these claims, it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, AstraZeneca discloses information with respect to the nature and facts of the cases.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, other than those for which provision has been made, we are unable to make estimates of the possible loss or range of possible losses at this stage, other than as set forth herein.
We also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of factors including: the stage of the proceedings in many cases trial dates have not been set and the overall length and extent of pre-trial discovery: the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision: clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law: uncertainties in timing of litigation: and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Note 25, based on managements current and considered view of each situation, we do not currently expect them to have a material adverse effect on our financial position.
This position could of course change over time, not least because of the factors referred to above.
In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, or where quantifiable fines and penalties have been assessed and which are not subject to appeal or other similar forms of relief, or where a loss is probable and we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the loss, we indicate the loss absorbed or the amount of the provision accrued.
AstraZeneca is defending its interests in various federal and state investigations and civil litigation matters relating to drug marketing and pricing practices and in respect of which the Company has made provisions in aggregate of $636m during 2009.
$524m of this has been made in respect of the US Attorneys Offices investigation into sales and marketing practices involving Seroquel and $112m relates to average wholesale price litigation.
The current status of these matters is described below.
These provisions constitute our best estimate at this time of the losses expected for these matters.
Where it is considered that the Group is more likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved in defending the claim are charged to profit as they are incurred.
Where it is considered that the Group has a valid contract which provides the right to reimbursement from insurance or otherwise of legal costs and or all or part of any loss incurred or for which a provision has been established, we consider recovery to be virtually certain and, the best estimate of the amount expected to be received is recognised as an asset.
Assessments as to whether or not to recognise provisions or assets and of the amounts concerned usually involve a series of complex judgements about future events and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.
AstraZeneca believes that the provisions recorded are adequate based on currently available information and that the insurance recoveries recorded will be received.
However, given the inherent uncertainties involved in assessing the outcomes of these cases and in estimating the amount of the potential losses and the associated insurance recoveries, we could in future periods incur judgments or insurance settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results in any particular period.
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the Groups patents on various products or processes and assertions of non-infringement of patents.
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent protection on the related product.
The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of the product, which could materially affect the future results of the Group.
The lawsuits pending against companies that have filed ANDAs in the US, seeking to market generic forms of products sold by the Group prior to the expiry of the applicable patents covering these products, typically include allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these patents.
In the event that the Group is not successful in these actions or the statutory 30-month stay expires before a ruling is obtained, the companies involved will also have the ability, subject to FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of the product concerned.
Accolate zafirlukast Patent litigation US In May 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Ltd and Dr. Reddys Laboratories, Inc. together DRL that it had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market Accolate before expiration of AstraZenecas FDA-listed patents.
AstraZeneca lists seven patents referencing Accolate in the FDAs Orange Book.
DRL did not challenge two listed patents, US Patent Nos.
As a result, DRL cannot market its zafirlukast product before the patents expire in 2010.
DRLs notice-letter challenged the five remaining listed patents alleging non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability.
In June 2008, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation against DRL in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey for infringement of three of the five remaining listed patents, US Patent Nos.
The remaining two patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book have expiration dates in December 2011 and March 2014.
In mid-2009, the parties agreed to dismiss without prejudice all claims and counterclaims based on the 097 and 775 patents.
The matter proceeds in discovery based only on the 963 patent.
The parties have submitted claim construction briefing.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Accolate.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 170 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Arimidex anastrozole Patent litigation Canada In July 2009, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan Pharmaceuticals ULC trading under the name Genpharm ULC Mylan ULC in respect of Canadian Patent No.
1,337,420 the 420 patent listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Arimidex.
Mylan ULC alleges, among other things, that the 420 patent is invalid and or its product does not infringe the 420 patent.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a Notice of Compliance NOC to Mylan ULC for its anastrozole tablets until the expiration of the 420 patent.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Arimidex.
Atacand candesartan cilexetil Patent litigation Canada In April 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada Inc. Sandoz Canada in respect of Canadian Patent Nos.
2,040,955 the 955 patent and 2,083,305 the 305 patent listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand.
Sandoz Canada indicated it would await the expiry of the 955 patent, but alleged that the 305 patent was not infringed and was not properly listed on the Canadian Patent Register.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca Canada filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Sandoz for its 4, 8 and 16mg candesartan cilexetil tablets until the expiration of the 305 patent.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca Canada discontinued the proceeding.
Sandoz may not receive a NOC until the expiry of the 955 patent.
Patent litigation EU In Portugal, in December 2009 a request was filed with the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance seeking a preliminary injunction in the administrative courts in order to suspend the effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant Sandoz Farmacutica Limitada marketing authorisations for generic candesartan cilexetil.
Atacand HCT candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide Patent litigation US In September 2008 and March 2009, AstraZeneca and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited Takeda received Paragraph IV Certification notice-letters from Matrix Laboratories Limited Matrix notifying the parties that it had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of Atacand HCT, a combination product containing candesartan cilexetil and hydrochlorothiazide in 32 12.5, 32 25 and 16 12.5mg dose forms.
Matrix is a subsidiary of Mylan, Inc. AstraZeneca then listed five patents referencing Atacand HCT in the FDAs Orange Book.
Matrixs notice alleged non-infringement, invalidity or unenforceability in respect of US Patent Nos.
Matrix did not challenge the two listed compound patents US Patent Nos.
5,705,517 the 517 patent and 5,196,444 the 444 patent, the latest of which expires in June 2012.
As a result, Matrix cannot market its candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide combination product before December 2012, when the six-month Paediatric Exclusivity period expires.
AstraZeneca and Takeda did not file a complaint for patent infringement.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca and Takeda received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz Inc. Sandoz notifying the parties that it has submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a generic version of Atacand HCT in 32 12.5, 32 25 and 16 12.5mg dose forms.
AstraZeneca now lists six unexpired patents in the FDAs Orange Book directed to Atacand HCT.
Sandozs notice-letter alleges that the 534 patent, the 263 patent and the 961 patent are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed.
Sandoz did not challenge the 517 patent, the 444 patent or US Patent No.
7,538,133, the latest of which expires in June 2012.
As a result, Sandoz cannot market its candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide combination product before December 2012, when the six-month Paediatric Exclusivity period expires.
Patent litigation Canada In August 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada in respect of Canadian Patent Nos.
2,040,955 the 955 patent, 2,083,305 the 305 patent and 2,125,251 the 251 patent listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Atacand Plus.
Sandoz Canada has confirmed that it will await the expiry of the 955 patent, but alleges that the 305 patent is not infringed and is not properly listed on the Canadian Patent Register and that the 251 patent is not infringed, invalid and not properly listed.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Sandoz for its 16 12.5mg candesartan cilexetil-HCT tablets until the expiration of the 305 and 251 patents.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan ULC in respect of the 955 patent, the 305 patent and the 251 patent.
Mylan ULC alleges the 305 and 251 patents are invalid, infringed and not properly listed.
AstraZeneca is reviewing Mylan ULCs notice.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Atacand and Atacand HCT.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 171 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Crestor rosuvastatin Patent litigation US AstraZeneca lists three patents referencing Crestor in the FDAs Orange Book: US Patent No.
RE 37,314 covering the active ingredient the 314 patent, US Patent No.
6,316,460 covering formulations the 460 patent, and US Patent No.
6,858,618 covering medical use the 618 patent.
Since 2007, AstraZeneca has received Paragraph IV Certification notice-letters from nine generic drug companies.
The companies each notified AstraZeneca that it had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets prior to the expiration of one or more of AstraZenecas three FDA Orange Book-listed patents.
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca UK Limited, IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and AstraZenecas licensor, Shionogi Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha, have filed separate lawsuits in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, against various parents or subsidiaries of eight of these companies for infringement of the patent covering rosuvastatin calcium, the active ingredient in Crestor tablets.
AstraZeneca did not file patent infringement actions against one company, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. USA, because it did not seek approval to market products before the 2016 expiration date of the patent covering the active ingredient.
The parties filed various jurisdictional motions, which Magistrate Judge Leonard Stark decided in a Report and Recommendation Regarding Motions to Dismiss.
In January 2009, the Court adopted the magistrates report and recommendations deciding the defendants various jurisdictional motions directed to parent and subsidiary entities.
In May 2009, the magistrate issued his Report and Recommendation Regarding Claim Construction, which set out his recommendations for claim construction of the 314 patent claims.
In May 2009, Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc Mylan Pharma and Par Pharmaceutical, Inc.
Par filed objections to the Report.
In October 2009, Judge Joseph Farnan overruled the objections of Mylan Pharma and Par to the Report and adopted Magistrate Judge Leonard Starks recommendations for claim construction of the 314 patent claims.
After completion of fact-discovery, in September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Motion for Summary Judgment of No Inequitable Conduct.
Defendants Apotex Inc. and Aurobindo Pharm Ltd also then each renewed their respective motions directed to the Courts jurisdiction over their parent and subsidiary entities seeking separate trials in Florida and New Jersey, respectively.
The parties also filed evidentiary motions.
In December 2009, Magistrate Judge Leonard Stark issued his Report and Recommendation Regarding Motions for Summary Judgment and to Dismiss, and Order on Evidentiary Motions denying AstraZenecas summary judgment motion and denying or granting the other pre-trial motions of the parties.
In December 2009, Aurobindo Pharm Ltd and AstraZeneca filed objections to certain recommendations in the magistrates report and recommendations.
A decision by Judge Farnan on the magistrates report and recommendations is pending.
In October 2009, by joint stipulation, AstraZeneca and Sandoz, entered into a standstill agreement staying the patent infringement action against Sandoz.
Both parties agreed to be bound by the first final non-appealable decision rendered in the remaining Crestor cases with respect to the validity and enforceability of the 314 patent.
In December 2009, Judge Farnan modified requirements and procedures for the parties pre-trial submissions and reset the beginning trial date to 22 February 2010.
Other US patent litigation In October 2008, Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a patent infringement lawsuit against AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, the Company, AstraZeneca UK Limited and IPR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that Crestor infringed one of its formulation patents Patent No.
In January 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca UK Limited moved for dismissal on jurisdictional grounds.
By agreement, Teva Pharmaceuticals voluntarily dismissed its claims against the Company and AstraZeneca UK Limited without prejudice.
In March 2009, AstraZeneca moved to transfer the case to the US District Court, District of Delaware.
In April 2009, AstraZeneca also moved to strike Teva Pharmaceuticals jury demand.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Motion for Summary Judgment of Invalidity Due to Prior Invention.
In September 2009, Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a reissue application with the US Patent and Trademark Office with respect to the 502 patent.
In October 2009, Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a motion to stay the litigation in its entirety during the pendency of the reissue prosecution in the US Patent and Trademark Office.
AstraZeneca opposed Teva Pharmaceuticals motion, arguing that the summary judgment motion should be fully briefed and decided prior to any stay of the litigation.
On 14 January 2010, the Court denied Teva Pharmaceuticals motion for a stay and ordered it to respond to AstraZenecas summary judgment motion.
Patent litigation Canada In September 2008, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Novopharm Limited Novopharm in respect of Canadian Patents Nos.
2,072,945 the 945 patent and 2,313,783 the 783 patent listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Crestor.
AstraZeneca responded by commencing a court application in October 2008 under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations, seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Novopharm until after expiry of the patents.
In November 2008, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Apotex Inc. Apotex in respect of the 945 and 783 patents.
AstraZeneca Canada responded by commencing a court application in December 2008 under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations, seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Apotex until after expiry of the patents.
In addition to the NOC proceedings currently pending against Novopharm and Apotex, separate, parallel patent infringement actions were filed in September 2009 against Novopharm and Apotex in the Federal Court of Canada with respect to the 945 patent.
In November 2009, the federal court dismissed the Statement of Claim against Novopharm as premature without prejudice to re-file.
AstraZeneca Canada has appealed the dismissal.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 172 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued In April 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Cobalt Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Cobalt in respect of the 783 patent and the 945 patent.
Cobalt claims that the 945 patent is not infringed and invalid: and that the 783 patent is not infringed and invalid.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Cobalt for its 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the 945 and 783 patents.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Sandoz Canada with respect to the 945 and 783 patents.
Sandoz Canada claims that the 945 patent is invalid and that the 783 patent is not infringed and invalid.
In July 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to Sandoz Canada for its 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the 945 and 783 patents.
In August 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from ratiopharm Inc. ratiopharm with respect to the 945 and 783 patents.
Ratiopharm claims that the 945 patent and the 783 patent are not infringed and invalid.
In October 2009, AstraZeneca filed a Notice of Application in federal court seeking an order prohibiting the Minister of Health from issuing a NOC to ratiopharm for its 5, 10, 20 and 40mg rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the expiration of the 945 and 783 patents.
As a consequence of AstraZeneca Canadas legal actions seeking prohibition orders, none of Novopharm, Apotex, Cobalt, Sandoz Canada or ratiopharm can obtain a NOC for its rosuvastatin calcium tablets until the earlier of the disposition of the respective court application in its favour or, unless a Prohibition Order is granted, 24 months after the date on which the respective court application was commenced assuming its regulatory submission is approvable by that date.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Crestor.
Entocort EC budesonide AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDAs Orange Book referencing Entocort EC.
In 2008, in response to Paragraph IV Certification noticeletters from Barr Laboratories and Mylan Pharma notifying AstraZeneca that each had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market a generic form of AstraZenecas Entocort EC prior to the expiration of the two patents, AstraZeneca initiated patent infringement actions in the US District Court, District of Delaware.
Trial is scheduled to begin on 17 May 2010.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Entocort EC.
Exanta ximelagatran The consolidated amended complaint that had alleged claims on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period April 2003 to September 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 was dismissed in its entirety.
Plaintiffs appealed this decision and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals summarily affirmed the trial courts dismissal of the action.
Plaintiffs have not appealed the Second Circuit Court of Appeals decision.
This litigation is therefore concluded.
Faslodex fulvestrant AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDAs Orange Book referencing Faslodex: US Patent No.
6,774,122 the 122 patent and US Patent No.
In November 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. Teva Parenteral stating that Teva Parenteral had submitted an ANDA to the FDA seeking approval to market generic fulvestrant injection 50 mg ml, and alleging the invalidity and unenforceability of the patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book with respect to Faslodex.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit against Teva Parenteral, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the District of Delaware for infringement of the 122 and 160 patents.
Iressa gefitinib Between 2004 and 2008, seven claims were filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts.
In six of the claims, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease ILD in a Japanese patient.
In the seventh claim, it is alleged that Iressa caused a non-fatal incidence of ILD.
AstraZeneca KK believes the claims are without merit and is defending all the cases.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole Patent litigation US From 2001 to 2005, as previously reported more fully, AstraZeneca entered into patent infringement litigation against numerous generic companies including Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. together Lek, Impax Laboratories Inc. Impax manufacturers of the generic product distributed in the US by Teva Pharma Ltd Teva Pharma, Apotex Corp. and Apotex, Inc. together Apotex Group, Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Andrx, and Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA together Esteve manufacturers of the omeprazole product distributed in the US by Mylan Pharma.
The basis for these proceedings included that conduct of these companies would infringe US Patent Nos.
4,786,505 the 505 patent and 4,853,230 the 230 patent formulation patents relating to omeprazole.
In 2003, Mylan Pharma commenced commercial sale of Esteves generic omeprazole product.
In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex Group and Teva Pharma distributing Impaxs product commenced commercial sales of generic omeprazole products.
AstraZeneca made claims for damages against each selling defendant, as well as damages claims against Andrx.
Anti-trust counterclaims were filed by many generic defendants.
Several anti-trust counterclaims, as well as several AstraZeneca claims, proceed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 173 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued From April to June 2006, a consolidated bench trial on patent liability issues occurred in the District Court, involving defendants, Mylan Pharma, Esteve, Lek, Apotex Group and Impax.
In May 2007, the Court upheld both formulation patents covering Prilosec.
The Court found that the generic omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex Group infringed AstraZenecas patents.
The Court also found that the generic products sold by Lek, Mylan Pharma and Esteve did not infringe AstraZenecas patents.
AstraZeneca appealed the Mylan Pharma Esteve decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In June 2008, the Federal Circuit upheld the ruling that Mylan Pharma Esteve did not infringe.
In September 2008, the Federal Circuit upheld that the generic omeprazole formulations of Impax and Apotex Group infringed AstraZenecas patents-in-suit.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca settled with Impax and Teva Pharma, who market Impaxs product.
AstraZeneca received a one-time payment for past infringing sales.
AstraZeneca continues to pursue damages and additional remedies from Andrx and Apotex Group.
Patent litigation Canada AstraZeneca continues to be involved in proceedings in Canada involving various patents relating to omeprazole capsules and omeprazole magnesium tablets.
Apotex launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
In January 2006, AstraZeneca Canada Inc. was served with a claim in the Federal Court of Canada for payment of an undetermined sum based on damages allegedly suffered by Apotex due to the delay from January 2002 to January 2004 in the issuance to Apotex of a NOC for its 20mg omeprazole capsule product.
AstraZeneca believes the claim is without merit and is defending it, as well as continuing to vigorously pursue its already pending patent infringement action against Apotex.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Losec Prilosec.
European Commission case In June 2005, the Commission notified the Company and AstraZeneca AB of its Decision to impose fines totalling 60m on the companies for infringement of European competition law Article 82 of the EC Treaty now Article 102 TFEU and Article 54 of the EEA Agreement.
The Commission alleges that the companies abused their dominant positions in the periods between 1993 and 2000 by making a pattern of misleading representations before the patent offices and or courts in Belgium, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and the UK in regard to obtaining supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole: and by requesting the surrender of market authorisations for omeprazole capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, combined with withdrawal of omeprazole capsules from these countries and the launch of omeprazole MUPS tablets.
AstraZeneca does not accept the Commissions decision and has appealed it to the Court of First Instance now referred to, following the Treaty of Lisbon, as the General Court.
AstraZeneca denies that it had a dominant position or that it was engaged in the behaviours as characterised by the Commission.
In the meantime, the fine was fully provided for in the half-year results in 2005 through a charge to operating profit of $75m.
Because it is further alleged by the Commission that these activities had the effect of hindering the entry of the generic version of Losec and parallel trade, it is possible that third parties could seek damages for alleged losses arising from this matter.
Any such claims would be vigorously resisted.
The oral hearing in the above appeal to the General Court took place in November 2008 and AstraZeneca expects the appeal judgment to be handed down in 2010.
Nexium esomeprazole magnesium Sales and marketing practices AstraZeneca entities have been sued in various state and federal courts in the US in purported representative class actions involving the marketing of Nexium.
These actions generally allege that AstraZenecas promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers was unfair, unlawful and deceptive, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec.
They also allege that AstraZenecas conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive.
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and costs of suit.
The first action was brought in 2004 in California state court on behalf of a class of California consumers and third-party payers.
Lawsuits making substantially similar allegations were later filed in 2004 and 2005 in state courts in Arkansas, Florida, Massachusetts and Delaware, and in Delaware federal court.
The Florida and Arkansas cases have been dismissed at the trial court level and both of these dismissals have been affirmed on appeal.
In March 2009, the California court granted AstraZenecas motions for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs motion for class certification.
That decision has been appealed.
In May 2009, the Massachusetts court held oral argument on AstraZenecas motion for summary judgment and plaintiffs motion for class certification.
The case in Delaware federal court was initially dismissed in November 2005, but the decision was vacated in March 2009 by the Court of Appeals for reconsideration in light of the US Supreme Courts pre-emption decision in Wyeth v. Levine.
AstraZeneca has moved to dismiss the case on alternative grounds and intends to vigorously defend the case.
The Delaware state case has been stayed pending the outcome of the federal case.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 174 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Patent litigation US In April 2008, AstraZeneca entered into a settlement agreement and consent judgment with Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited together Ranbaxy to settle the Ranbaxy ANDA patent litigation.
Ranbaxy was the first to file a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in respect of Nexium patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book.
The settlement agreement allows Ranbaxy to commence sales of a generic version of Nexium under a license from AstraZeneca on 27 May 2014.
AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in January 2006 from IVAX Pharmaceuticals Inc. stating that IVAX Corporation together IVAX Group had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules.
In March 2006, AstraZeneca commenced wilful patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against IVAX Group, its parent Teva Pharmaceuticals, and their affiliates together Teva Group.
In December 2008, the Court granted AstraZenecas motion to add Cipla, Ltd. as a defendant in the IVAX Group Teva Group litigation.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca entered into an agreement to settle the IVAX Group Teva Group litigation.
Teva Group conceded that all patentsat-issue in its US Nexium patent litigations are valid and enforceable.
Teva Group also conceded that its ANDA product would infringe six of the Nexium patents-in-suit.
AstraZeneca has granted Teva Group a license for its ANDA product to enter the US market, subject to regulatory approval, on 27 May 2014.
This date and the settlement are consistent with AstraZenecas settlement with Ranbaxy.
As a result of settlement and entry of a consent judgment, the litigation against IVAX Group Teva Group and Cipla, Ltd. has been dismissed.
AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in December 2007 from DRL stating that DRL had submitted an ANDA for 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules alleging invalidity and or non-infringement in respect of certain AstraZeneca US patents.
In January 2008, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against DRL in response to DRLs Paragraph IV certifications regarding Nexium.
Although previously consolidated with the above referenced IVAX Group Teva Group and Cipla, Ltd litigations, the DRL litigation proceeds.
No trial date has been set.
In 2008, AstraZeneca, IVAX Group and DRL filed declaratory judgment suits in US District Court, District of New Jersey alleging non-infringement and or invalidity for patents that were not previously included in the ongoing Nexium patent infringement litigations.
In January 2010, as part of the above referenced settlement, the IVAX Group declaratory judgment actions were dismissed.
The declaratory judgment actions involving DRL proceed.
No trial date has been set for the DRL actions.
In December 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz stating that Sandoz had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules.
In January 2009, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in US District Court.
In July 2009, the Court stayed the Sandoz patent infringement litigation until after trial in the above referenced DRL patent infringement litigation.
No trial date has been set in the Sandoz patent infringement litigation.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Lupin Limited Lupin stating that Lupin had submitted an ANDA for approval to market 20 and 40mg esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules relating to patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book with reference to Nexium.
In October 2009, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation against Lupin in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
The Lupin litigation proceeds in its early stages.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sun Pharma Global FZE Sun stating that Sun had submitted an ANDA for esomeprazole sodium for injection 20mg vial and 40mg vial relating to patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book.
AstraZeneca is reviewing Suns notice.
Patent litigation Canada AstraZeneca Canada received several notices of allegation from Apotex in late 2007 in respect of patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for 20 and 40mg copies of Nexium tablets.
AstraZeneca responded by commencing seven court applications in January 2008 under the Patented Medicines Notice of Compliance Regulations.
Apotex cannot obtain a NOC for its esomeprazole tablets until the earlier of the end of September 2010 or the disposition of all of the court applications in Apotexs favour.
The application hearing has been scheduled to take place from 31 May to 4 June 2010.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca Canada received a Notice of Allegation from Mylan ULC relating to all patents listed on the Canadian Patent Register for Nexium.
AstraZeneca is reviewing Mylan ULCs notice and is considering its options.
Patent litigation Brazil AstraZeneca has filed two law suits before the Federal Courts of Brasilia seeking judicial declaration confirming that all conditions established in the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights TRIPS Agreement have been satisfied and therefore entitling AstraZeneca to exclusive marketing rights for Nexium through 2012.
AstraZeneca is awaiting trial decision on the merits.
Patent litigation EU During 2009, marketing authorisations for generic products containing 20 and 40 mg esomeprazole magnesium were granted in Europe to companies in the Sandoz group.
Denmark was the reference member state and the other EU countries included in the decentralised regulatory procedure were Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Spain.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 175 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued In Denmark, Sandoz A S launched its esomeprazole magnesium products in June 2009.
AstraZeneca filed an application in June 2009 with the District Court of Copenhagen in Denmark seeking an interlocutory injunction to restrain Sandoz A S from marketing products containing generic esomeprazole magnesium in Denmark.
AstraZeneca considers that the products marketed by Sandoz A S infringe intellectual property owned by AstraZeneca relating to Nexium.
The oral proceedings were held in court in Denmark in December 2009.
On 5 January 2010, the District Court of Copenhagen granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction against Sandoz A S. The injunction prohibits Sandoz A S from selling, offering for sale or marketing the pharmaceutical products Esomeprazole Sandoz and other pharmaceutical products containing esomeprazole magnesium with an optical purity of equal to or greater than 99.8% enantiomeric excess in Denmark.
Sandoz A S may appeal this decision to the Eastern High Court of Denmark within four weeks.
An appeal will not suspend the effect on the injunction, and the injunction will be in force during an appeal process.
In Portugal, AstraZeneca filed a request in August 2009 with the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance seeking a preliminary injunction and initiating a main action in the administrative courts.
AstraZeneca has filed the request to seek a suspension of the effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant Sandoz Farmacutica Limitada marketing authorisations for generic esomeprazole magnesium.
In October 2009, the Lisbon Administrative Court of First Instance granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction suspending the efficacy of the marketing authorisations and the price approvals for Sandoz Farmacutica Limitadas generic esomeprazole magnesium.
The decision has been appealed by the Portuguese authorities.
In Austria, AstraZeneca filed two applications in December 2009 with the Vienna Commercial Court seeking interlocutory injunctions to restrain Hexal Pharma GmbH and 1A Pharma GmbH, both companies in the Sandoz group, from marketing products containing generic esomeprazole magnesium in Austria.
AstraZeneca considers that the generic products infringe the optical purity patent covering Nexium.
In Slovenia, AstraZeneca filed an application in January 2010 with the District Court of Ljubljana seeking an interlocutory injunction to restrain Lek d. d. a company within the Sandoz group, from selling products containing esomeprazole magnesium in Slovenia.
In July 2008 Sandoz AS, Sandoz A S and Hexal AG initiated an invalidity case regarding two esomeprazole related patents in Norway.
In December 2009 the Court delivered its judgment.
The Court invalidated a formulation patent while it upheld a substance patent related to esomeprazole.
In July 2008 AstraZeneca initiated a declaratory action in Finland requesting the Court to confirm that Sandoz AS and Sandoz A S would infringe a patent relating to esomeprazole if they were to commercialise their generic esomeprazole product in Finland.
In September 2008, Hexal AG, Sandoz Oy Ab and Sandoz A S initiated an invalidity case requesting the Court to invalidate the same patent.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Nexium.
Patent proceedings In July 2009, the European Patent Office EPO published the grant of two patents that relate to Nexium the Esomeprazole Magnesium Patent and Nexium i. v. the Esomeprazole Sodium Patent.
These two patents were granted on the basis of two divisional applications of European Patent No.
The Parent Patent, a substance patent covering Nexium, was revoked by the EPO Board of Appeal in December 2006 following post-grant opposition and appeal proceedings.
The Esomeprazole Magnesium Patent also covers Nexium, although the claims are different and narrower than the Parent Patent.
The divisional applications were supported by new evidence that was not available at the time the EPO Board of Appeal made its decision to revoke the Parent Patent.
The new patents are due to remain in force until May 2014.
The claims of the Esomeprazole Magnesium Divisional Application are limited to preparations and uses thereof having a very high optical purity, namely esomeprazole magnesium with an optical purity of equal to or greater than 99.8% enantiomeric excess.
Hexal AG and Teva Pharmaceuticals filed Notices of Opposition against the grant of Esomeprazole Magnesium Patent in July 2009.
Federal Trade Commission FTC inquiry In July 2008, AstraZeneca received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Federal Trade Commission seeking information regarding the Nexium patent litigation settlement with Ranbaxy.
AstraZeneca is co-operating fully with the request.
Prilosec OTC omeprazole magnesium Patent litigation US In June 2007, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from DRL stating that DRL had submitted an ANDA seeking FDA approval to market a 20mg delayed release omeprazole magnesium capsule for the OTC market AstraZenecas OTC product is marketed by Proctor & Gamble Co. before the expiration of the patents listed in the FDAs Orange Book in reference to the Prilosec OTC product.
In July 2007, AstraZeneca commenced patent infringement litigation in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against DRL.
In March 2009, the Court granted DRLs motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the two patents-in-suit.
In July 2009, AstraZeneca appealed this ruling to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals and in December 2009 the Court affirmed the District Courts summary judgment of non-infringement.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Prilosec OTC.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 176 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation suspension Patent litigation US In March 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Breath Ltd. now owned by Watson Pharmaceuticals, hereinafter Watson for patent infringement.
The lawsuit is the result of an ANDA filed by Watson with the FDA concerning Watsons intent to market a generic version of AstraZenecas Pulmicort Respules in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
The basis for AstraZenecas complaint is that the action by Watson of filing an ANDA infringes certain of AstraZenecas patents directed to Pulmicort Respules and their use.
In March 2009, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Apotex Group seeking a declaratory judgment of patent infringement.
Apotex Group thereafter filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
The lawsuit follows the FDAs approval of an ANDA filed by Apotex Group and concerns Apotex Groups intent to market an FDA-approved generic version of Pulmicort Respules in the US prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In April 2009, on AstraZenecas motion, the Court issued a Temporary Restraining Order barring Apotex Group from launching its generic version of Pulmicort Respules until further order of the Court.
In April 2009, the Court commenced a hearing to determine whether to continue the injunction.
In May 2009, the Court issued a Preliminary Injunction barring Apotex Group from launching its generic version of Pulmicort Respules until further order of the Court.
Apotex Group appealed the issuance of the Preliminary Injunction to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Oral argument on the appeal is scheduled for 5 February 2010.
The litigations involving Apotex Group and Watson have been consolidated under a common scheduling order.
In April 2009, the US Patent and Trademark Office issued AstraZeneca a new patent directed to sterile formulations of budesonide inhalation suspensions.
AstraZeneca listed the new patent in the FDAs Orange Book, referencing Pulmicort Respules.
AstraZeneca amended its pleadings against Apotex Group and Watson alleging infringement of the newly issued patent.
Under the terms of the previously reported 2008 settlement agreement resolving patent litigation respecting Teva Pharmas generic copies of Pulmicort Respules, Teva Pharma was granted an exclusive license to market its generic product on or after 15 December 2009.
Teva Pharma launched its generic product in December 2009.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Pulmicort Respules.
Seroquel quetiapine fumarate Sales and marketing practices The US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia, working with a number of states as part of the National Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, has been directing an investigation relating to Seroquel involving a review of sales and marketing practices, including allegations that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for non-indicated off-label uses.
AstraZeneca understands that this investigation is the subject of two sealed qui tam whistleblower lawsuits filed under the False Claims Act.
During the investigation, the government also raised allegations related to selected physicians who participated in clinical studies involving Seroquel.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle with the US Attorneys Office to resolve the investigation, subject to the negotiation and finalisation of appropriate implementing agreements, including civil settlement agreements and a corporate integrity agreement.
This agreement will involve AstraZeneca paying $524m, including interest, and a provision for this amount has been made in 2009.
There are also a number of additional active investigations involving Seroquel sales and marketing practices led by state Attorneys General which include investigations relating to Seroquel off-label issues and which purport to cover issues in addition to the respective states participation in the National Medicaid Fraud Control Unit.
Over 40 states, as part of the National Association of Attorneys General, are participating in a joint investigation and several states may also have individual investigations.
Some states are separately suing AstraZeneca.
In February 2007, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania filed suit against AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly & Company Lilly, and Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. Janssen claiming damages incurred by the Commonwealth as a result of alleged off-label promotion of atypical anti-psychotics by the three manufacturers.
The lawsuit is filed in state court in Philadelphia and seeks to recover the cost to the Pennsylvania Medicaid programme and other state-funded health insurance programmes for prescriptions written as a result of the alleged off-label promotion and also seeks compensation for costs incurred by the state for the treatment of Medicaid and other public assistance beneficiaries who allegedly developed diabetes, hyperglycaemia and other conditions as a result of using Seroquel without adequate warning.
In December 2007, the Court granted the defendants motion to sever the claims against AstraZeneca and Janssen from those against Lilly and directed the Commonwealth to file separate complaints against the two severed defendants, which the Commonwealth did in January 2008.
In December 2008, the Court granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss all but two counts of the complaint including dismissal of the Commonwealths claims alleging violations of the Pennsylvania Medicaid False Claims Act.
Similar lawsuits were filed by the State of Montana in February 2008, the State of Arkansas in May 2008, the State of South Carolina in January 2009 and the State of New Mexico in February 2009.
These suits generally seek compensation for costs incurred by the state for the treatment of Medicaid and other public assistance beneficiaries who allegedly developed diabetes, hyperglycaemia and other conditions as a result of using Seroquel without adequate warning.
In addition, these lawsuits seek reimbursement of payments made by the state Medicaid programmes for prescriptions that relate to so-called non-medically accepted indications of Seroquel.
The lawsuits further seek various fines and penalties.
AstraZeneca believes these claims to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend against them.
The suits are in various stages of litigation, but the Pennsylvania and Arkansas suits are furthest along and are in the discovery phase.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 177 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued In May 2007, the New Jersey Ironworkers Local Union No.
68 filed a class action suit against AstraZeneca on behalf of all individuals and non-governmental entities that paid for Seroquel from January 2000 to date.
The lawsuit was filed in the federal District Court in New Jersey and alleged that AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel for off-label uses and misled class members into believing that Seroquel was superior to other, lower-cost alternative medicines.
Two similar class action lawsuits were filed in June and July 2007 in the New Jersey and Pennsylvania federal courts.
In December 2007, the three lawsuits were transferred to the Middle District of Florida by the US Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation MDL.
In November 2008, the MDL Court granted AstraZenecas motion and dismissed these cases in their entirety with prejudice, and the plaintiffs appealed.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend against the appeal, which is scheduled to be heard by the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals in February 2010.
In September 2008, the Pennsylvania Employees Benefit Trust Fund PEBTF served AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP with a complaint filed in the Pennsylvania Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County seeking economic damages stemming from allegedly improper marketing practices that caused the PEBTF to reimburse for allegedly overpriced Seroquel prescriptions and the medical care of PEBTF members allegedly injured from Seroquel use.
In October 2008, AstraZeneca removed this lawsuit to federal court and immediately requested that it be transferred to the Seroquel MDL.
In July 2009, the MDL Court dismissed PEBTFs complaint with prejudice.
PEBTF has elected to forgo a federal appeal of that decision, and instead is pursuing an appeal in the Pennsylvania Superior Court on the dismissal of an earlier-filed state court action.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend itself against this lawsuit.
Product liability In August 2003, Susan Zehel-Miller filed a putative class action against the Company and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP on behalf of all persons in the US who purchased and or used Seroquel.
Among other things, the class action alleged that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
In 2004, the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida denied class certification and the case was ultimately dismissed.
Two additional putative class actions raising similar allegations have likewise been dismissed.
There are no other US class actions relating to Seroquel: however, four putative class actions raising substantially similar allegations have been filed in Canada, in the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec.
The actions in British Columbia and Alberta are not moving forward at this time and no date has yet been scheduled for the certification hearing in Ontario.
The Motion for Authorization certification hearing in the Quebec action was heard in December 2009.
A decision is expected in early 2010.
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, either alone or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, has been sued in numerous individual personal injury actions involving Seroquel.
In most of these cases, the nature of the plaintiffs alleged injuries is not clear from the complaint and, in most cases, little or no factual information regarding the alleged injury has been provided in the complaint.
However, the plaintiffs generally contend that they developed diabetes and or other related injuries as a result of taking Seroquel and or other atypical anti-psychotic medications.
As of 4 December 2009, AstraZeneca was defending 10,399 served or answered lawsuits involving 22,099 plaintiff groups.
To date, approximately 2,664 additional cases have been dismissed by order or agreement and approximately 1,642 of those cases have been dismissed with prejudice.
Approximately 60% of the plaintiffs currently pending Seroquel claims are in state courts primarily Delaware, New Jersey, New York, California and Alabama with the other 40% pending in the federal court, where most of the cases have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes into an MDL.
AstraZeneca is also aware of approximately 177 additional cases approximately 3,459 plaintiffs that have been filed but not yet served and has not determined how many additional cases, if any, may have been filed.
Some of the cases also include claims against other pharmaceutical manufacturers such as Lilly, Janssen and or Bristol Myers Squibb Company.
In January and February 2009, the federal judge presiding over the Seroquel MDL in the District Court for the Middle District of Florida granted AstraZenecas motions for summary judgment in the first two Seroquel product liability cases set for trial and dismissed those cases.
The plaintiff in one of these cases filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which was argued in December 2009.
The federal MDL court has stayed all remaining Florida cases pending a decision on that appeal.
In November 2009, the MDL court stated that it would remand non-Florida cases to the federal district courts from which they were transferred originally, recommended that these cases be transferred to the courts of plaintiffs states of residence and also suggested a stay of proceedings in all remanded cases pending the MDL courts evaluation of a pre-identified group of cases, currently numbering 37.
The MDL court further ordered mediation before any cases are remanded.
A mediation session was conducted in mid-January 2010.
In addition to the Seroquel MDL in federal court, AstraZeneca is defending Seroquel product liability suits in multiple state courts.
Cases have been consolidated by state courts in Delaware, New Jersey and New York in order to manage the large volume of claims pending in those jurisdictions.
AstraZeneca is also defending Seroquel product liability claims in California, Alabama and Missouri.
In May 2009, the judge presiding over the Seroquel litigation in the Superior Court of Delaware granted AstraZenecas motion for summary judgment in the first Seroquel product liability case set for trial and dismissed the case.
Immediately after this decision, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the next case scheduled for trial in June 2009 as well as additional cases scheduled for trial in November 2009.
Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal of this decision to the Delaware Supreme Court, but later dismissed that appeal voluntarily.
On 7 January 2010, the Delaware court granted AstraZenecas motions for summary judgment in two trials scheduled to begin in mid-January 2010 and dismissed those cases.
As a result, the first trial is now scheduled to begin in New Jersey state court in mid-February 2010.
Although trial had been scheduled in Missouri for the first quarter of 2010, the trial date is being rescheduled at the request of the Court.
AstraZeneca intends to litigate these cases on their individual merits and will defend against the cases vigorously.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 178 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued AstraZeneca has product liability insurance dating from 2003 that is considered to respond to the vast majority of the Seroquel-related product liability claims.
This insurance provides coverage for legal defence costs and potential damages amounts.
The insurers that issued the applicable policies for 2003 have reserved the right to dispute coverage for Seroquel-related product liability claims on various grounds, and AstraZeneca currently believes that there are likely to be disputes with some or all of its insurers about the availability of some or all of this coverage.
In December 2009 AstraZeneca formally requested payment from some of its insurers for legal costs incurred in defending the Seroquel-related product liability claims.
It may be necessary for AstraZeneca to commence legal proceedings against some or all of its insurers in order to recover payment.
As of 31 December 2009 legal defence costs of approximately $656m 2008: $512m have been incurred in connection with Seroquel-related product liability claims.
The first $39m is not covered by insurance.
At 31 December 2009 AstraZeneca has recorded an insurance receivable of $521m 2008: $426m representing the maximum insurance receivable that AstraZeneca can recognise under applicable accounting principles at this time.
This amount may increase as AstraZeneca believes that it is more likely than not that the vast majority of costs above the $521m recorded as an insurance receivable will ultimately be recovered through this insurance, although there can be no assurance of additional coverage under the policies, or that the insurance receivable we have recognised will be realisable in full.
In addition, given the status of the litigation currently, legal defence costs for the Seroquel claims, before damages, if any, are likely to exceed the total stated upper limits of the applicable insurance policies.
Patent litigation US As previously reported, in 2005 and into 2006, AstraZeneca received Paragraph IV Certification notice-letters from Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. Teva stating that Teva had submitted an ANDA and amendments for approval to market and sell quetiapine fumarate tablets prior to the expiration of the patent covering Seroquel tablets.
AstraZeneca filed lawsuits directed to Tevas ANDA, as amended, in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent infringement.
AstraZeneca received a similar Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter in March 2007 from Sandoz stating that Sandoz had submitted an ANDA for approval to market a generic version of AstraZenecas quetiapine fumarate 25mg tablets prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas listed patent.
Sandozs notice-letter alleged non-infringement and patent invalidity.
AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against Sandoz alleging patent infringement.
Teva and Sandoz thereafter conceded that their respective ANDA products infringe AstraZenecas patent covering Seroquel and that the patent is valid, leaving only allegations of unenforceability relating to inequitable conduct.
In July 2008, the Court entered its Final Judgment in AstraZenecas favour on all claims and defences in respect of infringement, validity, and enforceability of AstraZenecas patent.
Teva and Sandoz appealed the judgment to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals.
In February 2009, during the pendency of the appeal, AstraZeneca received another Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Sandoz directed to the remaining approved Seroquel dosage amounts.
AstraZeneca sued Sandoz in US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging patent infringement in March 2009.
The Court stayed the new action against Sandoz pending the outcome of the appeal.
In September 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Courts judgment against Teva and Sandoz.
In December 2009, based on the Federal Circuits decision and its July 2008 decision, the Court entered final judgment against Sandoz regarding the ANDA products in the new, stayed action resulting from its February 2009 notice-letter.
In December 2009 and January 2010, respectively, AstraZeneca filed motions for orders declaring the cases involving Teva and Sandoz exceptional under 35 U. S. C. 285, thereby allowing recovery of attorneys fees from each non-prevailing party.
Patent litigation Brazil In January 2006 AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit before the Federal Courts of Rio fide Janeiro seeking judicial declaration extending the term of one of its patents from 2006 to 2012 SPC.
A preliminary order was granted shortly thereafter.
Later in 2006 the Brazilian Patent Office BPTO filed its bill of review against the preliminary order.
AstraZeneca replied and in August 2006, the Federal Court of Appeals denied BPTOs bill of review confirming the preliminary order in favour of AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca is awaiting a trial decision on the merits.
Patent litigation EU Since 2007, AstraZeneca has filed requests with the Portuguese courts seeking suspension of the effect of decisions taken by administrative bodies in Portugal to grant other companies marketing authorisations for generic quetiapine fumarate.
Many preliminary injunctions and main actions are pending before the courts.
The Courts have generally agreed with AstraZenecas position and suspended the market authorisations in the preliminary injunction actions until a definitive decision on the merits in the main actions.
Patent litigation Seroquel XR AstraZeneca lists two patents in the FDAs Orange Book referencing Seroquel XR: US Patent No.
4,879,288 the 288 patent covering quetiapine fumarate, the active ingredient, and US Patent No.
5,948,437 the 437 patent covering extended-release formulations, processes and methods in respect of quetiapine fumarate.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 179 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued In July 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Handa Pharmaceuticals, LLC Handa stating that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200 and 300mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of AstraZenecas two listed patents covering Seroquel XR.
Handas notice-letter alleged non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability.
Later in July 2008, AstraZeneca received a similar notice-letter from Handa stating that it had submitted an amendment to its ANDA for 200 and 300mg tablets adding a request for approval to market a generic version of 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of AstraZenecas two listed patents covering Seroquel XR.
In July 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Handa and a currently unknown, associated entity alleging infringement of AstraZenecas 288 and 437 patents covering Seroquel XR 200, 300 and 400mg tablets.
The filing of this lawsuit triggered 30-month stays of FDA final approval for Handas ANDA products.
In September 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Accord Healthcare Inc. Accord advising that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration of AstraZenecas patent covering the Seroquel XR formulation.
Accord is a subsidiary of Intas Pharmaceutical Limited Intas.
Later in September 2008, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Accord, Intas and related entities, alleging infringement of the 437 patent.
The filing of this lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay of FDA final approval for Accords ANDA products.
In October and November 2008, AstraZeneca received, respectively, a third and fourth Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Handa advising that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 50 and 150mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the product.
In October 2008, AstraZeneca filed a second lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Handa alleging infringement of AstraZenecas patents covering the active ingredient and formulation of Seroquel XR 50mg tablets: and in December 2008, AstraZeneca filed a third lawsuit against Handa alleging infringement of AstraZenecas patents covering the active ingredient and formulation of Seroquel XR 150mg tablets.
The filing of these additional lawsuits triggered 30-month stays of FDA final approval for Handas 50 and 150mg ANDA products.
In December 2008, AstraZeneca received a Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Biovail Laboratories International SRL Biovail stating that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market generic versions of 200, 300 and 400mg Seroquel XR tablets before the expiration of AstraZenecas two listed patents covering Seroquel XR.
Biovails notice-letter alleged non-infringement and invalidity in respect of AstraZenecas patents.
In January 2009, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit in US District Court, District of New Jersey, against Biovail alleging infringement of AstraZenecas 288 and 437 patents covering Seroquel XR 200, 300 and 400mg tablets.
The filing of this lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay of FDA final approval for Biovails ANDA products.
In January 2009, AstraZeneca received a second Paragraph IV Certification notice-letter from Accord advising that it had submitted an ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of 150mg Seroquel XR tablets before expiration of AstraZenecas 437 patent covering the product.
In February 2009, AstraZeneca filed a second lawsuit in the District of New Jersey against Accord alleging infringement of AstraZenecas patent covering the formulation of Seroquel XR 150mg tablets.
The filing of this additional lawsuit triggered a 30-month stay of FDA final approval for Accords 150mg ANDA product.
The matters respecting Handa, Accord and Biovail proceed in co-ordinated discovery.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in, and will vigorously defend and enforce, its intellectual property protecting Seroquel and Seroquel XR.
Synagis palivizumab In December 2008, MedImmune initiated patent litigation against PDL BioPharma, Inc. PDL in the US District Court for the Northern District of California.
MedImmune seeks a declaratory judgment that the Queen patents owned by PDL are invalid and or not infringed by either Synagis and or motavizumab, and that no further royalties are owed under a patent licence MedImmune and PDL signed in 1997 1997 Agreement.
MedImmune has paid royalties on Synagis since 1998 under the 1997 Agreement.
In February 2009, MedImmune amended its complaint to add a separate claim asserting that MedImmune is entitled under the 1997 Agreements most favoured licensee provision to more favourable royalty terms that PDL has granted to other Queen patent licensees.
PDL has taken the position in the case that both Synagis and motavizumab infringe a single claim of the Queen patents, and on that basis that MedImmune owes royalties for both products.
With respect to the most favoured licensee dispute, PDL contends that MedImmunes rights under that provision have not been triggered by PDLs licensing activities with third parties.
In December 2009, PDL purported to cancel the 1997 Agreement and to add counterclaims to the case.
The proposed counterclaims assert that MedImmune underpaid royalties on ex-US sales of Synagis by Abbott Laboratories, Inc. prior to the purported termination of the 1997 Agreement and separately also that MedImmune is infringing sales of Synagis post-dating the purported cancellation of the 1997 Agreement.
If the Court permits PDL to add the claim for infringement, PDL plans to seek actual and exemplary damages and an injunction.
MedImmune has moved to strike the amended counterclaims.
A hearing on that motion is set for 26 February 2010.
The case is scheduled for trial on 14 June 2010.
Symbicort budesonide formoterol Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy Symbicort SMART In December 2008, oppositions were filed against European patent EP1 085 877 B1 covering the use of Symbicort for the as needed symptomatic relief of asthma in addition to regular maintenance treatment of chronic asthma.
The opponents are Vectura Limited, ratiopharm GmbH, Generics UK Limited and Norton Healthcare Limited.
A hearing date has not yet been set by the EPO Opposition Division.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 180 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued US patent term extension In June 2008, the US Patent and Trademark Office issued a final determination that US Patent No.
5,674,860 was not eligible for patent term extension.
AstraZeneca filed a request for reconsideration.
AstraZeneca will vigorously defend and enforce its remaining intellectual property portfolio protecting Symbicort, which has patent expiry dates up to 2019 in Europe.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate Beginning in 2003, AstraZeneca initiated and prosecuted numerous patent infringement actions involving patents covering Toprol-XL tablets against KV Pharmaceutical Company KV, Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC Andrx LLC and Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. later acquired by Sandoz in US District Courts for the Eastern District of Missouri and District of Delaware in response to notifications of intentions to market generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets.
At the end of 2008, the patent litigations relating to Toprol-XL had been decided, resolved or settled.
In the first quarter of 2006, AstraZeneca was served with 14 complaints filed in the US District Courts in Delaware, Massachusetts and Florida against AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca AB and Aktiebolaget Hssle.
The complaints were putative class actions filed on behalf of both direct purchasers and indirect purchasers that allege that the AstraZeneca defendants attempted to illegally maintain monopoly power in the US over Toprol-XL in violation of the Sherman Act through the listing of invalid and unenforceable patents in the FDAs Orange Book and the enforcement of such patents through litigation against generic manufacturers seeking to market metoprolol succinate.
The complaints seek treble damages based on alleged overcharges to the putative classes of plaintiffs.
These 14 complaints were consolidated into two amended complaints in the US District Court in Delaware, one on behalf of direct purchasers, and one on behalf of indirect purchasers.
The lawsuits are based upon a 2006 ruling by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in the consolidated patent litigation against KV, Andrx LLC and Sandoz, that the AstraZeneca patents relating to Toprol-XL are invalid and unenforceable.
In 2006 AstraZeneca filed a motion seeking to dismiss or, in the alternative, stay the consolidated complaint in both anti-trust cases.
AstraZenecas motion to dismiss the anti-trust complaints is still pending.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations of the anti-trust complaints and will vigorously defend the lawsuits.
Zestril lisinopril In 1996, two of AstraZenecas predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. as licensees, Merck & Co. Inc. and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. together Merck Group commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex, alleging infringement of Merck Groups lisinopril patent.
Apotex sold a generic version of AstraZenecas Zestril and Merck Groups Prinivil tablets.
Following a trial in early 2006, in April 2006 the Federal Court of Canada ruled in favour of AstraZeneca and Merck Group on the key issues and Apotex stopped selling lisinopril in May 2006.
In October 2006, the Federal Court of Appeal in Canada upheld the lower courts decision and dismissed Apotexs appeal.
The Supreme Court of Canada dismissed Apotexs leave to appeal in May 2007.
AstraZeneca intends to pursue a reference proceeding in the Federal Court to quantify the damages related to the infringement by Apotex.
Apotex re-commenced the sale of lisinopril in October 2007 after expiry of the relevant patent.
Pain pump litigation Since February 2008, AstraZeneca LP, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, Zeneca Holdings Inc. and or the Company have been named as defendants and served with approximately 282 lawsuits, involving approximately 475 plaintiffs, filed in various US jurisdictions, alleging injuries caused by third-party pain pumps.
The complaints in these cases generally allege that the use of Marcaine, Sensorcaine, Xylocaine and or Naropin, with or without epinephrine, in pain pumps that were implanted into patients in connection with arthroscopic surgery, caused chrondrolysis.
Other named defendants in these cases are other manufacturers and distributors of bupivacaine and lidocaine and other pain medications, pain pump manufacturers, and in some cases the surgeons.
As of 21 January 2010, approximately 220 plaintiffs have voluntarily dismissed, or are in the process of dismissing, their cases against the AstraZeneca defendants.
In addition, 13 cases, involving 17 plaintiffs were dismissed by the court on AstraZeneca motions, although some claims were refiled.
AstraZeneca has likewise filed motions to dismiss or for summary judgment in numerous cases that are currently pending.
In October 2009, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was served with a putative class action lawsuit brought by a single plaintiff on behalf of several hundred class members and against more than 20 defendants, including AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and the Company, filed in Texas State District Court.
The putative class is purportedly defined as all individuals who received local anaesthetics intra-articularly for up to 72 hours or more via a pain pump and includes no geographical limitations.
The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and exemplary damages from the AstraZeneca defendants under various product liability theories.
The case was removed to federal court by a co-defendant, and both AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and the Company filed motions to dismiss.
Plaintiff then proceeded to voluntarily dismiss the Company, but AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LPs motion remains fully briefed and currently pending.
Plaintiffs moved to consolidate the federal pain pump cases under the MDL process, but the Judicial Panel on MDL denied that motion in August 2008.
In November 2009, three plaintiffs firms filed a renewed motion for MDL consolidation for most, but not all, of the pain pump cases pending in federal court.
In addition, plaintiffs in Minnesota federal court, New Jersey state court, and California state court have filed motions or otherwise asked the courts to consolidate the pain pump cases pending in those jurisdictions pursuant to a common case management plan.
AstraZeneca is opposing these attempts at consolidation.
Rights to market Sensorcaine, Xylocaine and Naropin in the US were sold to Abraxis Bioscience Inc. Abraxis in June 2006 but many of these lawsuits may be a retained liability under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement with Abraxis.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend against this matter.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 181 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Average Wholesale Price Litigation AstraZeneca is a defendant along with many other pharmaceutical manufacturers in several sets of cases involving allegations that, by causing the publication of allegedly inflated wholesale list prices, defendants caused entities to overpay for prescription drugs.
During 2009, AstraZeneca made a total provision of $112m in relation to certain sets of cases regarding these alleged practices.
The first set of cases was filed in December 2001 in the US District Court in Boston, Massachusetts on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs and related only to the  Zoladex medication.
Following the Massachusetts complaint, nearly identical class action suits were filed in two other states, which have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal multi-district litigation MDL procedures.
AstraZeneca and other manufacturers were later sued in similar lawsuits filed by the State Attorneys General of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, Montana, Nevada, Pennsylvania, Utah, and Wisconsin, as well as by multiple individual counties in the State of New York.
The Attorney General lawsuits seek to recover alleged overpayments under Medicaid and other state-funded healthcare programmes for substantially all of AstraZenecas medications.
In several cases, the states are also suing to recover alleged overpayments by state residents.
Several of these suits have also been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes, pursuant to federal MDL procedures.
Private insurers and consumers filed putative state-wide class actions in Arizona and New Jersey alleging damages relating to private reimbursement of prescription drugs.
In the MDL action in January 2006, the District Court certified three classes of plaintiffs against a sub-group of defendants the Track 1 manufacturer defendants including AstraZeneca.
For AstraZeneca, the three certified classes were: a nationwide class of consumers who made co-payments for Zoladex reimbursed under the Medicare Part B programme Part B drugs Class 1 : a Massachusetts-only class of third party payers, including insurance companies, union health and welfare benefit plans, and self-insured employers, who covered consumer co-payments for Zoladex Class 2 : and a Massachusetts-only class of third party payers and consumers who paid for Zoladex outside of the Medicare programme Class 3.
For all classes, the only AstraZeneca drug at issue is Zoladex goserelin acetate implant.
In May 2007, AstraZeneca reached a settlement agreement resolving the Class 1 claims.
The settlement, which was approved by the Court in December 2008, will involve payments of up to $24m to reimburse individual class members submitting claims, plus attorneys fees of $8.58m.
AstraZeneca has agreed that a portion of any unclaimed settlement amounts will be donated to charitable organisations funding cancer patient care and research.
Notice of the proposed settlement was mailed to potential class members in December 2007.
A provision of $27m was established in 2007.
In November 2009, the Court of Appeals rejected a challenge to the settlement.
The administration of claims under this settlement continues.
In June 2007 and November 2007, the MDL Court issued decisions, after a bench trial, on liability and damages on Classes 2 and 3.
The Court found AstraZeneca liable under the Massachusetts consumer protection statute for engaging in unfair and deceptive conduct in connection with the pricing of Zoladex during the period 1998 to 2003.
The Court awarded double damages with pre-judgment interest of $5.5m for Class 2, and single damages with pre-judgment interest of $7.4m for Class 3, for a total of $12.9m.
The District Court could award postjudgment interest and attorneys fees in addition to the judgment amount.
AstraZeneca believes the decision to be in error and filed an appeal.
In September 2009, a panel of the First Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Courts opinion and judgment.
In November 2009, the First Circuit Court of Appeals denied AstraZenecas petition seeking reconsideration of the panels decision.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle to resolve the case, inclusive of preand post-judgment interest, administration fees, and plaintiffs attorney fees.
The settlement is subject to final Court approval.
AstraZeneca took a provision of $13m with respect to this matter in 2009 and there is no material increase in reserve with respect to the settlement.
In September 2008, the MDL Court granted, in part, the plaintiffs motion for class certification of third party payers in states other than Massachusetts.
The Court certified multi-state versions of Class 2 and Class 3 relating to Zoladex.
AstraZeneca believes the decision to be in error.
In January 2009, the Court granted AstraZenecas motion to stay the entry of the order pending its appeal of the Courts award relating to Massachusetts payers.
In December 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle to resolve, inclusive of preand post-judgment interest, administration fees and plaintiffs attorney fees, the Zoladex claims subject to the Courts multi-state class certification opinion and the Zoladex claims in the lawsuit but not certified for class action treatment.
The settlement is subject to negotiation of terms and final Court approval.
AstraZeneca took a provision of $90m in 2009 in respect of this settlement.
The multiple Attorney General lawsuits pending against AstraZeneca and other manufacturers nationwide, which involve numerous drugs in addition to Zoladex, remain pending and are in various stages of discovery.
Those matters with significant developments are noted below.
The average wholesale price case filed by the Alabama Attorney General was tried in Circuit Court in Montgomery, Alabama in February 2008.
The trial resulted in a jury verdict against AstraZeneca on the States claims of fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation, and an award of compensatory damages of $40m and punitive damages of $175m.
In June 2008, the trial court held a hearing on AstraZenecas request for post-trial relief and reduced the punitive damages award, as required by statute, to $120m.
AstraZeneca filed an appeal with the Alabama Supreme Court and in October 2009, the Supreme Court of Alabama overturned the trial courts judgment against AstraZeneca and rendered judgment in AstraZenecas favour instead.
In January 2010, the Alabama Supreme Court denied the State of Alabamas petition for reconsideration.
No provision has been made in respect of this matter.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 182 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued In October 2009, a Kentucky jury found AstraZeneca liable under the Commonwealth of Kentuckys Consumer Protection statute and Medicaid Fraud statute, and awarded $14.72m in compensatory damages and $100 in punitive damages for drugs reimbursed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky Medicaid Agency.
In January 2010, the trial court rendered a decision awarding statutory penalties of $5.4m.
The court also awarded pre-judgment interest of 8% beginning in October 2009 until the judgment date, and awarded post-judgment interest of 9% beginning on the date of judgment.
Interest would accrue only on the compensatory damages amount.
AstraZeneca believes the Court made several material and reversible errors during the course of the trial and in awarding penalties.
AstraZeneca will seek post-judgment relief and will consider filing an appeal if necessary.
In May 2009, AstraZeneca reached a settlement to resolve the claims of the states of Nevada and Montana for an immaterial amount which has been provided.
Those cases have now been dismissed with prejudice.
In June 2009, the court presiding over the putative class action in Arizona granted AstraZenecas motion for summary judgment and denied plaintiffs motion for class certification as moot.
The plaintiffs did not appeal this ruling, and so that case is final.
In November 2009, AstraZeneca reached a settlement to resolve the claims of the State of Hawaii for an immaterial amount which has been provided.
The allegations made in respect of the average wholesale price lawsuits described in this section are denied and will be vigorously defended.
340B Class Action Litigation In August 2005, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant, along with multiple other pharmaceutical manufacturers, in a class action suit filed by the County of Santa Clara on behalf of similarly situated California counties and cities that allegedly overpaid for drugs covered by the federal 340B programme.
The 340B programme entitles hospitals and clinics that treat a substantial portion of uninsured patients to preferential drug pricing for outpatient drugs.
A hearing on class certification was held in April 2009, and in May 2009 the court denied class certification without prejudice and established Bayer Corporation as a lead-track defendant for summary judgment and trial.
AstraZeneca intends to vigorously defend these claims.
Verus Pharmaceuticals Litigation In May 2009, Verus Pharmaceuticals Inc. filed a lawsuit in the New York state court against AstraZeneca AB and its subsidiary, Tika Lkemedel AB Tika, alleging breaches of several related collaboration agreements to develop novel paediatric asthma treatments.
The complaint purports to state claims for fraud, breach of contract, unjust enrichment and conversion.
AstraZeneca AB and Tika removed the lawsuit to federal court and have moved to dismiss the complaint and intend to vigorously defend this matter.
Medco qui tam litigation AstraZeneca has been named in a lawsuit filed in the Philadelphia federal court by a former Medco Health Systems employee, Karl Schumann, under the qui tam whistleblower provisions of the federal and certain state False Claims Acts.
The action was initially filed in September 2003 but remained under seal until July 2009, at which time AstraZeneca was served with a copy of the amended complaint following the governments decision not to intervene in the case.
The lawsuit seeks to recover, inter alia, alleged overpayments by federal and state governments for Prilosec and Nexium from 1996 to 2007.
These overpayments are alleged to be the result of improper payments intended to influence the formulary status of Prilosec and Nexium at Medco and its customers.
AstraZeneca has moved to dismiss the amended complaint and intends to vigorously defend this matter.
Drug importation anti-trust litigation In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California alleging a conspiracy by AstraZeneca and approximately 15 other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants to set the price of drugs sold in California at or above the Canadian sales price for those same drugs and otherwise restrict the importation of pharmaceuticals into the US.
In July 2005, the Court overruled in part and sustained in part, without leave to amend, the defendants motion to dismiss the plaintiffs third amended complaint in these proceedings.
The Court overruled the defendants motion in respect of conspiracy claims but sustained the motion in respect of the California Unfair Competition Law claims.
In December 2006, the Court granted the defendants motion for summary judgment and the case was subsequently dismissed.
Plaintiffs appealed that decision and the Court of Appeal of the State of California affirmed the lower Courts decision.
Plaintiffs have appealed to the Supreme Court of California, which has decided to hear the appeal.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations in the California action and is vigorously defending this matter.
Anti-trust US secondary wholesalers In July 2006, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP was named as a defendant, along with a number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers and wholesalers, in a complaint filed by RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. RxUSA in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
The complaint alleges that the defendants violated federal and state anti-trust laws by, amongst other things, allegedly refusing to deal with RxUSA and other secondary wholesalers in the wholesale pharmaceutical industry.
The plaintiff alleges a conspiracy among the manufacturers and seeks an injunction and treble damages.
AstraZeneca vigorously denies the allegations and in November 2006 filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
In September 2009 the Court granted the defendants motion to dismiss.
Plaintiff is appealing the decision.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Financial Statements 183 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued EU Commission Sector Inquiry AstraZeneca, together with several other companies, was the subject of an EU Commission Sectoral Inquiry into competition in the pharmaceutical industry which commenced in January 2008.
In the final report, published in July 2009 the Commission recommended improvements to certain patent and regulatory processes as well as greater competition law scrutiny in certain areas.
The final report does not identify any wrongdoing by any individual companies, but the Commission noted that a number of investigations are underway.
AstraZeneca is not aware that it is the subject of a Commission investigation.
The final report noted that the Commission was considering further monitoring of settlement agreements between originator and generic companies.
Pursuant to this, in January 2010 the Commission requested copies of settlement agreements entered into between July 2008 and December 2009 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca will co-operate fully with the request.
Other For a description of other anti-trust-related litigation involving AstraZeneca, see the subsections entitled Losec Prilosec omeprazole, Nexium esomeprazole and Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate in this Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple US federal and state investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
In addition to the investigations described above, the US Attorneys Office USAO in Philadelphia is directing an investigation involving requests for documents and information relating to contracting and disease management programmes with one of the leading national Pharmacy Benefits Managers.
AstraZeneca has been co-operating with this investigation and currently does not expect the government to take further action.
The USAO in Boston is conducting an additional investigation with a leading provider of pharmacy services to long-term care facilities.
According to a Court and a securities filing, that investigation may be the subject of one or more qui tam whistleblower complaints that were filed under the False Claims Act.
We have been informed by the government that they do not intend to pursue the matter as to AstraZeneca.
In addition to the Attorney General investigations regarding Seroquel described above, the Delaware Attorney Generals Office is investigating certain sales and marketing practices of AstraZeneca, which appear to focus on AstraZenecas prior interactions with physicians in the State of Delaware.
In addition, AstraZeneca is providing information in response to two informal requests for information relating to nominal pricing under the Medicaid rebate program, one from the US Department of Justice and one from the Attorney General of the State of Michigan.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
UK Serious Fraud Office SFO inquiry In 2007, AstraZeneca received from the SFO a request for documentation about its involvement in the UN Oil for Food programme in Iraq.
AstraZeneca denies any allegation of illegal or unethical behaviour in its trading relationships with Iraq.
AstraZeneca was informed in August 2009 that following a review of cases undertaken by the SFO, the SFO decided that no further action should be taken against the Company.
AstraZeneca co-operated fully with the SFO throughout its investigation.
Other actual and potential government investigations From time to time, AstraZeneca receives enquiries and requests for information from a number of governmental and or other regulatory bodies relating to a range of issues some, but not all, of which may relate directly to the business of AstraZeneca and some of which are confidential in nature.
AstraZeneca seeks to comply with these requests in an appropriate and timely manner and generally on the basis of legal advice received.
The nature and scope of the investigation in relation to which such enquiries and requests for information have been received is not always known to AstraZeneca.
Consequently, it is not always possible to determine whether such enquiries and investigations relate specifically to AstraZeneca or are merely a means of gathering factual information in the context of an unrelated third-party issue.
In addition, in the ordinary course of business AstraZeneca self-reports matters which may result in government investigations.
Congressional investigations In March 2009, AstraZeneca received and responded to an enquiry from the Senate Finance Committee about Seroquel clinical studies conducted in the 1990s.
In addition, AstraZeneca has responded to enquires from the House Energy and Commerce Committee about heparinised saline, found to have been contaminated, that was manufactured in Australia and sold in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong in 2008.
Informal SEC inquiry In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Croatia, Italy, Russia and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present.
The SECs request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors or government officials and related internal accounting controls.
The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors offices relating to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials.
AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request.
It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
Employment-wage hour litigation In September 2006, Marc Brody filed a putative class action lawsuit against AstraZeneca LP on behalf of himself and a class of approximately 844 pharmaceutical sales specialists employed by the Group in California during the period 19 September 2002 to present.
The plaintiff alleges he and the proposed class members were unlawfully classified as exempt employees and denied overtime compensation and meal breaks AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 184 Financial Statements 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued in violation of the California Labour Code.
AstraZeneca removed this action to the US District Court for the Central District of California in October 2006.
The plaintiff filed a first amended complaint in March 2007, for failure to provide meal and rest periods, failure to pay all wages earned each pay period, failure to provide accurate wage statements, failure to pay wages in a timely manner upon termination of employment, unfair competition and seeking civil penalties.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations made by the plaintiff, asserting that the sales specialists are properly classified under various exemptions to the wage laws.
The plaintiffs lawyers are also pursuing similar claims in lawsuits against most of the major pharmaceutical companies.
In separate lawsuits against AstraZeneca, the firms representing the Brody plaintiff filed additional state and wage-and-hour class actions.
The first case currently captioned Baum v. AstraZeneca, LP was filed under the Pennsylvania Minimum Wage Act and Wage Payment Collection Law in the US District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on behalf of two plaintiffs and a putative class of approximately 473 sales specialists working in Pennsylvania during the period March 2004 to the present.
The second case, Hummel v. AstraZeneca, was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of one plaintiff and a putative class of approximately 890 sales specialists working in the state of New York during the period June 2001 to the present, claiming the sales specialists were misclassified as exempt from overtime pay under New York labour law.
Additionally, in June 2007, the firms representing the Brody plaintiff filed a nationwide collective action based on federal wage-and-hour law FLSA in the US District Court for the District of Delaware, seeking unpaid overtime compensation and liquidated damages.
The lawsuit had a potential class size of 8,300 current and former sales specialists employed by the Group in the US during the period June 2004 to the present.
The parties have negotiated a stipulation of dismissal of this lawsuit and the action has been dismissed with prejudice.
The plaintiffs counsel purportedly may file a new FLSA action with a different plaintiff in the future.
The US District Court for the Central District of California granted summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca in the Brody lawsuit, dismissing all claims by plaintiff and finding the motion for class certification to be moot.
Plaintiff Brody has filed a notice of appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in California.
Briefing is scheduled to begin in January 2010.
Additionally, the US District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania, granted summary judgment in favour of AstraZeneca in the Baum matter, dismissing all claims filed by plaintiff Baum and finding the motion for class certification to be moot.
Plaintiff has filed an appeal with the Third Circuit Court of Appeals: the case has been fully briefed.
Finally, in Hummel v. AstraZeneca, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion for summary judgment and dismissed the case in September 2008.
In October 2008, Hummel filed a notice of appeal to the prejudice in exchange for AstraZenecas agreement to waive its costs.
The Hummel case has been resolved and dismissed with prejudice.
Tax Where tax exposures can be quantified, an accrual is made based on best estimates and managements judgement.
Details of the movements in relation to material tax exposures are discussed below.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in jurisdictions around the world and, in some cases, is in dispute with the tax authorities.
The issues under discussion are often complex and can require many years to resolve.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgements with respect to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could vary from these estimates.
The international tax environment presents increasingly challenging dynamics for the resolution of transfer pricing disputes.
These disputes usually result in taxable profits being increased in one territory and correspondingly decreased in another.
Our balance sheet positions for these matters reflect appropriate corresponding relief in the territories affected.
Management considers that at present such corresponding relief will be available but given the challenges in the international tax environment will keep this aspect under careful review.
The total net accrual included in the Financial Statements to cover the worldwide exposure to transfer pricing audits is $2,327m, an increase of $699m due to a number of new audits, revisions of estimates relating to existing audits, offset by a number of negotiated settlements and exchange rate effects.
Included in the total net accrual are amounts in respect of the following transfer pricing arrangements: AstraZeneca and HMRC have made a joint referral to the UK Court in respect of transfer pricing between our UK and one of our overseas operations for the years 1996 to date as there continues to be a material difference between the Groups and HMRCs positions.
An additional referral in respect of controlled foreign company aspects of the same case was made during 2008.
Absent a negotiated settlement, litigation is set to commence in 2010.
AstraZeneca has applied for an advance pricing agreement in relation to intra-group transactions between the UK and the US which is being progressed through competent authority proceedings under the relevant double tax treaty.
Management continues to believe that AstraZenecas positions on all its transfer pricing audits and disputes are robust and that AstraZeneca is appropriately provided.
For transfer pricing audits where AstraZeneca and the tax authorities are in dispute, AstraZeneca estimates the potential for reasonably possible additional losses above and beyond the amount provided to be up to $575m 2008: $400m : however, management believes that it is unlikely that these additional losses will arise.
Of the remaining tax exposures, AstraZeneca does not expect material additional losses.
It is not possible to estimate the timing of tax cash flows in relation to each outcome, however, it is anticipated that a number of significant disputes may be resolved over the next one to two years.
Included in the provision is an amount of interest of $565m 2008: $365m.
Interest is accrued as a tax expense.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
