Financial Statements 137 5 Earnings per $0.25 Ordinary Share 2009 2008 2007 Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders $m 7,521 6,101 5,595 Basic earnings per Ordinary Share $5.19 $4.20 $3.74 Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share $5.19 $4.20 $3.73 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue for basic earnings millions 1,448 1,453 1,495 Dilutive impact of share options outstanding millions 2 3 Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,450 1,453 1,498 There are no options, warrants or rights outstanding in respect of unissued shares except for employee share option schemes.
The number of options outstanding and the weighted average exercise price of these options is shown in Note 24.
The earnings figures used in the calculations above are post-tax.
6 Segment information AstraZeneca is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the Group does not have multiple operating segments.
Our pharmaceuticals business consists of the discovery and development of new products, which are then manufactured, marketed and sold.
All of these functional activities take place and are managed globally on a highly integrated basis.
We do not manage these individual functional areas separately.
We consider that the Senior Executive Team SET is AstraZenecas chief operating decision making body as defined by IFRS 8.
All significant operating decisions are taken by SET.
In assessing performance, the SET reviews financial information on an integrated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same basis as, the Groups IFRS Financial Statements.
Resources are allocated on a group-wide basis according to need.
In particular, capital expenditure, in-licensing, and research and development resources are allocated between activities on merit, based on overall therapeutic considerations and strategy under the aegis of the Groups Research & Development Executive Committee to facilitate a group-wide single combined discovery and development strategy.
Geographic areas The tables below show information by geographic area and, for revenue and property, plant and equipment, material countries.
The figures show the revenue, operating profit and profit before tax made by companies located in that area country, together with segment assets, segment assets acquired, net operating assets and property, plant and equipment owned by the same companies: export sales and the related profit are included in the area country from which those sales were made.
Intra-Group pricing is determined on an arms-length basis.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
