Directors Report | Financial Review 45 Reviews planning using artificial structures and Revenue recognition Contractual, under which entities such as optimising tax treatment of business Research and development third party managed-care organisations, transactions, and we engage only in the latter.
Goodwill and intangible assets long-term care facilities and group Litigation purchasing organisations are entitled Treasury Post-retirement benefits to rebates depending on specified The principal financial risks to which the Group Taxation performance provisions, which vary is exposed are those arising from liquidity, Segmental reporting.
interest rate, foreign currency and credit.
The Group has a centralised treasury function Revenue recognition The effects of these deductions on our US to manage these risks in accordance with Revenue is recorded at the invoiced amount pharmaceuticals turnover are set out below.
Specifically, liquidity excluding inter-company sales and value risk is managed through maintaining access added taxes less movements in estimated Accrual assumptions are built up on a to a number of sources of funding to meet accruals for rebates and chargebacks given product-by-product and  funding requirements, including to managed-care and other customers and customer basis, taking into account specific committed bank facilities and cash resources.
product returns a particular feature in the contract provisions coupled with expected Interest rate risk is managed through US.
The impact in the rest of the world is not performance, and are then aggregated into maintaining a debt portfolio that is weighted significant.
It is the Groups policy to offer a a weighted average rebate accrual rate for towards fixed rates of interest.
Accordingly the credit note for all returns and to destroy all each of our products.
Accrual rates are Groups net interest charge is not significantly returned stock in all markets.
Cash discounts reviewed and adjusted on a monthly basis.
affected by movements in floating rates of for prompt payment are also deducted from There may be further adjustments when actual interest.
We do not currently hedge the impact sales.
Revenue is recognised at the point of rebates are invoiced based on utilisation on earnings and cash flow of changes in delivery, which is usually when title passes information submitted to us in the case of exchange rates, with the exception of the to the customer either on shipment or on contractual rebates and claims invoices are currency exposure that arises between the receipt of goods by the customer depending received in the case of regulatory rebates booking and settlement dates on non-local on local trading terms.
Income from royalties and chargebacks.
We believe that we have currency purchases and sales by subsidiaries and from disposals of intellectual property, been reasonable in our estimates for future and the external dividend, along with brands and product lines is included in other rebates using a similar methodology to that certain non-US dollar debt.
Credit risk is operating income.
Inevitably, however, such managed through setting and monitoring estimates involve judgements on aggregate credit limits appropriate for the assessed Rebates, chargebacks and returns in the US future sales levels, segment mix and the risk of the counterparty.
At the time of invoicing sales in the US, rebates customers contractual performance.
and chargebacks that we expect to pay, Our capital and risk management objectives in as little time as two weeks or as much as Cash discounts are offered to customers to and policies are described in further detail eight months, are estimated.
These rebates encourage prompt payment.
Accruals are in Note 15 to the Financial Statements from typically arise from sales contracts with third calculated based on historical experience page 144 and in the Managing risk section party managed-care organisations, hospitals, and are adjusted to reflect actual experience.
from page 79. long-term care facilities, group purchasing organisations and various federal or Industry practice in the US allows wholesalers Sensitivity analysis of the Groups exposure to state programmes Medicaid best price and pharmacies to return unused stocks exchange rate and interest rate movements is contracts, supplemental rebates etc and within six months of, and up to 12 months detailed in Note 16 to the Financial Statements can be classified as follows: after, shelf-life expiry.
The customer is credited from page 146. for the returned product by the issuance of Chargebacks, where we enter into a credit note.
Returned product is not Critical accounting policies arrangements under which certain parties, exchanged for product from inventory and and estimates typically hospitals, the Department of once a return claim has been determined to Our Financial Statements are prepared in Veterans Affairs and the Department of be valid and a credit note has been issued accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU Defense, are able to buy products from to the customer, the returned goods are adopted IFRS and as issued by the IASB, wholesalers at the lower prices we have destroyed and not resold.
At the point of sale and the accounting policies employed are contracted with them.
The chargeback is in the US, we estimate the quantity and value set out in the Accounting Policies section the difference between the price we invoice of goods which may ultimately be returned.
in the Financial Statements from page 128. to the wholesaler and the contracted price Our returns accruals in the US are based on In applying these policies, we make estimates charged by the wholesaler.
Our estimate is based and assumptions that affect the reported are paid directly to the wholesalers.
on the preceding 12 months for established amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure Regulatory, including Medicaid and other products together with market-related of contingent assets and liabilities.
The actual federal and state programmes, where we information, such as estimated stock levels outcome could differ from those estimates.
pay rebates based on the specific terms at wholesalers and competitor activity, which Some of these policies require a high level of of agreements in individual states, which we receive via third-party information services.
judgement because the areas are especially include product usage and information For newly launched products, we use rates subjective or complex.
We believe that the on best prices and average market based on our experience with similar products most critical accounting policies and significant prices benchmarks.
areas of judgement and estimation are in: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
