192 Financial Statements 6 Share capital continued The movements in share capital during the year can be summarised as follows: No.
of shares million $m At 1 January 2009 1,447 362 Issues of shares 4 1 At 31 December 2009 1,451 363 Share schemes A total of 3,477,014 Ordinary Shares were issued during the year in respect of share schemes.
Details of movements in the number of Ordinary Shares under option are shown in Note 24 to the Group Financial Statements: details of options granted to Directors are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Shares held by subsidiaries No shares in the Company are held by subsidiaries.
7 Litigation and environmental liabilities In addition to those matters disclosed below, there are other cases where the Company is named as a party to legal proceedings.
These are described in Note 25 to the Group Financial Statements.
Exanta ximelagatran The consolidated amended complaint that had alleged claims on behalf of purchasers of the Companys publicly traded securities during the period April 2003 to September 2004 under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5 was dismissed in its entirety.
Plaintiffs appealed this decision and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals summarily affirmed the trial courts dismissal of the action.
Plaintiffs have not appealed the Second Circuit Court of Appeals decision.
This litigation is therefore concluded.
Informal SEC inquiry In October 2006, AstraZeneca received from the SEC a letter requesting documents related to its business activities in Italy, Croatia, Russia and Slovakia for the period 1 October 2003 to the present.
The SECs request generally seeks documents concerning any payments to doctors or government officials and related internal accounting controls.
The request also seeks policies, correspondence, audits and other documents concerning compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as any allegations or communications with prosecutors offices relating to corruption or bribery of doctors or government officials.
AstraZeneca has produced documents in response to this request.
It is not currently possible to predict the outcome of this inquiry.
EU Commission Sector Inquiry AstraZeneca, together with several other companies, was the subject of an EU Commission Sectoral Inquiry into competition in the pharmaceutical industry which commenced in January 2008.
In the final report, published in July 2009, the Commission recommended improvements to certain patent and regulatory processes as well as greater competition law scrutiny in certain areas.
The final report does not identify any wrongdoing by any individual companies, but the Commission noted that a number of investigations are underway.
AstraZeneca is not aware that it is the subject of a Commission investigation.
The final report noted that the Commission was considering further monitoring of settlement agreements between originator and generic companies.
Pursuant to this, in January 2010 the Commission requested copies of settlement agreements entered into between July 2008 and December 2009 from a number of companies, including AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca will co-operate fully with the request.
Other The Company has guaranteed the external borrowing of a subsidiary, in the amount of $288m.
8 Statutory and other information There are no employees of the Company 2008: nil.
The Directors of the Company were paid by another Group company in 2009 and 2008.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
