Ofcers and advisers SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE CORPORATE BROKERS Mr. W. G. Stebbings Bank of America Merrill Lynch Company Secretary and Solicitor Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc REGISTRARS Charlton House Equiniti Cirencester Road Aspect House Cheltenham Spencer Road, Lancing Gloucestershire West Sussex BN99 6DA GL53 8ER Telephone: 0871 384 2349 Telephone: 01242 521361 Website: www.
co. uk Facsimile: 01242 581470 Website: www.
com SOLICITORS Herbert Smith LLP AUDITOR Willans LLP KPMG Audit Plc IMPORTANT DATES FINANCIAL ADVISERS Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 14th April 2010 Citigroup Record date for final dividend 16th April 2010 Annual general meeting 11th May 2010 BANKERS Final dividend payable 21st May 2010 Barclays Bank PLC 84 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Group revenue Spirax Sarco Group operating profit Revenue by business Spirax Sarco Spirax Sarco Group Spirax Sarco worldwide 434.9m EMEA 72.6m Watson-Marlow 225.5m Watson-Marlow 83.8m Spirax Sarco at a glance 22.3m Americas 104.6m Spirax Sarco Asia Pacific 104.7m Watson-Marlow Steam specialties Watson-Marlow pumps 83.8m EMEA Americas What we do EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East and Africa Belgium Argentina Belgium Revenue Revenue Revenue Spirax-Sarco N. V. Spirax Sarco S. A. Watson-Marlow N. V. Spirax Sarco is the global leader in the supply of engineered Percentage of Group revenue solutions for the efficient design, maintenance and operation Czech Republic Brazil Brazil 225.5m 104.6m 104.7m Spirax Sarco spol.
e Com of industrial and commercial steam systems.
As a heat source, Operating profit Operating profit margin Operating profit Operating profit margin Operating profit Operating profit margin fide Bombas steam is the natural choice in most industrial processes due to Denmark Canada Spirax-Sarco Ltd.
Branch Spirax Sarco Canada Ltd. Denmark its high heat-carrying capacity, controllability, sterility and efficiency 35.6m 15.8% 13.9m 13.2% 23.1m 22.1% A S Watson-Marlow Alitea as a heat transfer fluid.
With our specialist knowledge, technical Finland Mexico 84% Watson-Marlow Flexicon A S Spirax Oy Spirax-Sarco Mexicana S. A.
49% expertise and wide range of products, as well as our extensive Highlights of the year Highlights of the year Highlights of the year France France USA Revenue global presence, Spirax Sarco is uniquely positioned to provide Difficult market conditions.
End markets stabilised in H2 but Market conditions mixed but improving.
Watson-Marlow S. A. S. continuing weakness in Canada.
Spirax-Sarco S. A. S. Spirax Sarco, Inc. a broad range of  engineered solutions Favourable exchange benefits from Favourable exchange benefits from 434.9m Sarco International, Corp. Germany 13% weaker sterling against the euro.
Favourable exchange benefits 21% stronger renminbi.
Germany to the many industries using steam.
Watson-Marlow GmbH from 19% weaker sterling against Spirax-Sarco GmbH Good performance from large Strong shipments in Q4 from backlog.
Operating profit Our customers face a variety of challenges including high energy the US dollar.
Hygromatik GmbH Italy operations in France, Germany Asia Pacific Added new sales people in China.
costs, pressure to improve the efficiency and capacity of existing 72.6m and Italy.
Good trading margin of 13.2% Watson-Marlow S. r. l. Ireland Pre-fabricated heat exchange processes and the need to comply with increasingly stringent versus 11.9% in 2008.
Australia Improved demand and sales in Russia Eirdata Environmental Services Ltd. Mexico package sales up 30%.
Operating profit margin health, safety and environmental legislation.
Our direct sales force in H2 after a very slow start in H1.
Profit increase from 2008 closure Spirax-Sarco Pty.
Ltd. Watson-Marlow S fide Rl fide CV Italy Significant improvement in Japan is trained at length in product application, system performance of UltraPure.
16.7% Difficult year in the domestic UK market China Spirax-Sarco S. r. l. Netherlands trading profit from FX benefit.
and troubleshooting of steam systems.
The Spirax Sarco but good project wins in December.
Lower profits in Brazil from strong Spirax Sarco Engineering China Ltd. M & M International S. r. l. Bredel Hose Pumps B. V. Headcount down 3%.
currency impacting export market offering is very wide, from single products through to complete Reduced volumes at our manufacturing Ampe S. r. l. Watson-Marlow Bredel Holdings B. V. India customers.
turnkey bespoke packages that can include design, fabrication, plants contributed to profit decline.
Colima S. r. l. Watson-Marlow B. V. Spirax-Marshall Ltd. 49.3% Headcount down 13%.
All of this creates Headcount down 8%.
Netherlands South Africa Japan a compelling and attractive one-stop approach for our customers.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering B. V. Watson-Marlow Bredel S. A. Pty.
Branch Spirax-Sarco Investments B. V. Sweden Malaysia WM Alitea A.
Spirax-Sarco AS Switzerland New Zealand Poland Watson-Marlow Ltd.
Branch Spirax Sarco Ltd. Spirax Sarco Sp.
United Kingdom Singapore Portugal Watson-Marlow Ltd. Spirax-Sarco Private Ltd. Spirax Sarco Equip.
What we do USA South Korea Russia Watson-Marlow, Inc. Spirax-Sarco Korea Ltd. 97.5% Highlights of the year Spirax-Sarco Engineering LLC Watson-Marlow is the global leader in peristaltic pumping and Taiwan End markets stabilised and improving.
MasoSine acquisition integration specialises not only in the design and manufacture of the most South Africa Spirax Sarco Co. Ltd. proceeding well.
Ltd. advanced peristaltic pumps, but also in the application of those Favourable benefits from the strong Thailand Percentage of Group revenue US dollar.
Our peristaltic pumps are ideal Spain Spirax Sarco Thailand Ltd. Good Q1 project orders in the Spirax Sarco S. A. for difficult pumping applications.
They are highly accurate and US contributed to H2 shipments.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering S. L. controllable and virtually maintenance-free, making them a very M & M Iberica S. L. 67% Good underlying project activity in reliable and cost-effective solution.
16% Sweden Operating a make-to-order manufacturing system and Strong sales growth in Asia.
Revenue uniquely extruding our own pump tubing, we have the leading Increased demand for Switzerland position in the supply of peristaltic pumps to the biotechnology, Flexicon products.
Spirax-Sarco A. G. 83.8m pharmaceuticals, wastewater treatment, mining and food Sales declined at Bredel from difficult Turkey Operating profit industries.
The peristaltic pumping market is a small part of the mining and general industrial markets.
Spirax Inter Valf Sanayi five Ticaret global pump market but it is one of the fastest growing segments.
Limited irketi 22.3m United Kingdom Designed by luminous.
Operating profit margin Spirax-Sarco Ltd. Financial statements typeset by db Designs.
Printed by Severnprint on revive Pure White Silk a recycled 26.6% paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill Spirax-Sarco Overseas Ltd. that has been awarded the ISO140001 certificate for environmental management.
The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free process.
