shareholder information Financial calendar 2010 4 March Preliminary results and final dividend announcement 10 March Final dividend ex-dividend date 12 March Final dividend record date 5 May Annual general meeting and interim management statement 6 May Final dividend payment date Ordinary shareholders 13 May Final dividend payment date ADR holders 4 July Half-year end August Half-year results and interim dividend announcement August Interim dividend ex-dividend date August Interim dividend record date September Interim dividend payment date Ordinary shareholders September Interim dividend payment date ADR holders November Interim management statement 31 December Financial year end February 2011 2010 Preliminary results and final dividend announcement Ordinary shares and American depositary receipts The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange ticker: SPT.
The Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market symbol: SPMYY: CUSIP: 84856M209.
The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
The ADRs are quoted on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation service which can be found at www.
Annual General Meeting The Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting 2010 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 5 May 2010 at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, United Kingdom.
Dividends Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends: direct to their bank account: reinvested in Ordinary Shares through the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below : paid by cheque: or paid in foreign currencies.
The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends is to have them paid direct to your bank account.
It saves waiting for funds to clear and reduces the paper and postage we use.
To change how you receive your dividends please contact the Companys registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2623 or log on to www.
co. uk Dividend reinvestment plan The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP delivered by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, so increasing their shareholding.
If you would like additional information, please contact the Companys registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2623 or log on to www.
Electronic communications At its 2008 AGM the Company passed a resolution allowing it to communicate with shareholders by means of the Companys website and an invitation to opt out of receiving mailings solely by electronic communication was sent to shareholders with the 2009 AGM documentation.
Shareholders who have purchased their shares since that invitation was distributed in March 2009 but who wish to receive company mailings electronically should notify the Companys registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126 or via www.
In line with this policy, the Companys Half-year Results will in future only be available on the Companys website at www.
Electronic communications provide significant benefits for shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, reduced environmental impact and cost and the Board would encourage investors to participate in the programme.
104 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 Companys registrar Enquiries concerning shareholdings, change of address or other particulars should be directed in the first instance to the Companys registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126.
Equiniti also provide a range of online shareholder information services at www.
co. uk, where shareholders can check their holdings and find practical help on transferring shares or updating their details.
Share dealing services Equiniti Shareview Dealing is a service that provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the Companys Ordinary Shares.
For telephone services call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday and for Internet services visit www.
A postal share dealing service for buying and selling Ordinary Shares is also available and a dealing form can be obtained by calling 0871 384 2126 or at www.
Individual savings accounts Information about investing in the Companys Ordinary Shares through an Individual Savings Account ISA may be obtained from Equiniti on 0845 300 0430 or at www.
ISAs are also offered by other organisations.
Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports about the Company.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in the Companys mailings or on our website.
More detailed information can be found at www.
Unsolicited mail The Company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available, subject to a proper purpose test, should a request be received.
As a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
To limit the amount of unsolicited mail received, please contact: The Mailing Preference Service MPS, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS, register online at www.
uk or call the MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599.
The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public within the UK.
Registering with them will help stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Companys website The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Financial information published on the website is based on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements that may be different from comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shareholder analysis At 4 March 2010, the number of registered shareholders was 4,274 and the number of Ordinary Shares in issue was 678.8 million.
