notes to the finanCial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 april 2009 Continued 2.
CritiCal aCCountinG estimates and judGements interest rate risk The critical accounting estimates and judgements made by the Group regarding The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates the future or other key sources of estimation, uncertainty and judgement that linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does not use interest rate may have a significant risk of giving rise to a material adjustment to the carrying financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate movements.
The values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Group regularly monitors and reacts accordingly to any exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and the impact on its monetary assets and liabilities.
impairment of goodwill The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of Credit risk goodwill requires a comparison of the present value of the cash generating The directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk units to which the goodwill has been allocated, to the value of goodwill in the is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all balance sheet.
The calculation of present values requires an estimation of the customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Group does not require future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating units and the collateral in respect of financial assets.
selection of a suitable discount rate.
The key assumptions made in relation to the impairment review of goodwill are set out in Note 15.
At each balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying impairment of other intangible assets amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of other intangible assets with an indefinite life, specifically brands, trade marks and Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative instruments are made licences, requires a comparison of the present value of the cash generating through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment units to the value of the other intangible assets in the balance sheet.
The criteria approved by the Board.
calculation of present value requires an estimation of the future cash flows expected to arise from the other intangible assets and the selection of a suitable liquidity risk discount rate.
The key assumptions made in relation to the impairment review The availability of adequate cash resources is managed by the Group through of goodwill are set out in Note 15. utilisation of its revolving bank and other facilities together with equity and retained profits thereby achieving continuity of funding and short-term flexibility.
useful economic life of intangible assets For intangible assets which have a finite life, the directors revisit their estimate Capital management of useful economic life at each period end and revise accordingly.
Licences and A description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing trade marks typically have a life of between 10 and 12 years.
capital are included in the financial review on page 25 of this report.
identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets On acquisition, each material separable intangible asset is identified and valued by the directors with assistance from a professional third party.
Any such calculation is judgmental in nature as it is based on a valuation methodology.
Brand valuations are typically valued using the relief from royalty valuation methodology.
The nature and carrying amounts of these assets are set out in Note 15. provision for obsolete, slow moving or defective inventories The directors have applied their knowledge and experience of the sports retail industry in determining the level and rates of provisioning required in calculating the appropriate inventory carrying values.
The nature and carrying amounts are set out in Note 18. financial position of retirement benefit plans The net defined benefit pension plan assets or liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
The determination of the financial position requires assumptions to be made regarding inter alia future salary increases, mortality, discount rates and inflation.
The key assumptions made in relation to the pension plan are set out in Note 26. provision for dilapidations and onerous lease contracts The basis of the estimation of the provisioning for dilapidations and onerous lease contracts is detailed in the provision accounting policy and Note 28.
Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience, external advice and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
3. finanCial risk manaGement The Groups current activities result in the following financial risks and managements responses to those risks in order to minimise any resulting adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investment in foreign operations.
Management has set up a policy to require group companies to manage their foreign exchange risk against their functional currency.
To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward foreign exchange contracts, transacted with group treasury.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
