notes to the finanCial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 april 2009 1. aCCountinG poliCies Goodwill The consolidated financial statements of Sports Direct International Plc the Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have been prepared in impairment at least annually or when a change in circumstances or situation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the indicates that the goodwill has suffered an impairment loss.
Any impairment European Union IFRS.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
No new IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and amendments have been adopted in the financial When the minority interests of an existing subsidiary are acquired the carrying statements.
value of the minority interests in the balance sheet is eliminated.
The excess of consideration over the carrying value of the minority interests is recognised in Basis of preparation the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International other intangible assets Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are not recorded Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trade marks and licences are initially Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The fair value of brands, trade marks and for use in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include fair the date of acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed cost valuation of financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
Consolidation No amortisation is charged on brands, trade marks or perpetual renewable The consolidated financial statements consolidate the revenues, costs, assets, licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes that the value of these liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those brands and trade marks can be maintained indefinitely.
The Group carries out entities in relation to which the Company has the power to govern the financial an impairment review on the intangible assets, at least annually, or when a and operating policies, generally achieved by a share of more than 50% of the change in circumstances or situation indicates that those brands have suffered voting rights.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible asset as part of the cash generating unit CGU with the On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair the market would expect on an investment of comparable risk.
values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority Amortisation is provided on brands, trade marks and licences with a definite shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the life over their useful economic lives of 10 to 15 years and is accounted for within assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
the selling, distribution and administrative expenses category within the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up property, plant and equipment to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of these items.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the associates and joint ventures Group and the costs can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including repairs Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not and maintenance costs, are charged to the income statement in the period in control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance basis or straightterm basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other line basis, whichever is deemed by the directors to be more appropriate, to ventures under a contractual agreement.
allocate cost less assessed residual value, other than assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows: The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method of Freehold buildings - 2% per annum accounting.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Leasehold property - over the term of the lease Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Plant and equipment - between 5% and 33% per annum Groups share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures include The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if appropriate, acquired goodwill.
adjusted at each balance sheet date.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is determined as its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise the difference between the sales proceeds, net of selling costs, and the carrying further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
behalf of the associate or joint venture.
impairment of assets other than goodwill and intangible assets with an Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures indefinite life are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
At each balance sheet date, the directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill and intangible investments assets with an indefinite life, to determine whether there is any indication that For available-for-sale investments except for contracts for difference, gains those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent through the statement of recognised income and expense, until the security is of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows disposed or derecognised at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable recognised in equity is included in the consolidated income statement for amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
If an available-for-sale investment is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in statement for the period.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market Contracts for difference are a type of financial instrument and therefore assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of these investments are which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
recognised directly in the income statement.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 37
