notes to the finanCial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 april 2009 1. aCCountinG poliCies Goodwill The consolidated financial statements of Sports Direct International Plc the Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and reviewed for Company and its subsidiaries together the Group have been prepared in impairment at least annually or when a change in circumstances or situation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the indicates that the goodwill has suffered an impairment loss.
Any impairment European Union IFRS.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
No new IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and amendments have been adopted in the financial When the minority interests of an existing subsidiary are acquired the carrying statements.
value of the minority interests in the balance sheet is eliminated.
The excess of consideration over the carrying value of the minority interests is recognised in Basis of preparation the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union including International other intangible assets Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Brands, trade marks and licences that are internally generated are not recorded Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the on the balance sheet.
Acquired brands, trade marks and licences are initially Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The fair value of brands, trade marks and for use in the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements have licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified to include fair the date of acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed cost valuation of financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
Consolidation No amortisation is charged on brands, trade marks or perpetual renewable The consolidated financial statements consolidate the revenues, costs, assets, licences with an indefinite life as the Group believes that the value of these liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those brands and trade marks can be maintained indefinitely.
The Group carries out entities in relation to which the Company has the power to govern the financial an impairment review on the intangible assets, at least annually, or when a and operating policies, generally achieved by a share of more than 50% of the change in circumstances or situation indicates that those brands have suffered voting rights.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible asset as part of the cash generating unit CGU with the On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary recoverable amount of the CGU, that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair the market would expect on an investment of comparable risk.
values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority Amortisation is provided on brands, trade marks and licences with a definite shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the life over their useful economic lives of 10 to 15 years and is accounted for within assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
the selling, distribution and administrative expenses category within the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up property, plant and equipment to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on is directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of these items.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the associates and joint ventures Group and the costs can be measured reliably.
All other costs, including repairs Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not and maintenance costs, are charged to the income statement in the period in control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the which they are incurred.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment other than A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance basis or straightterm basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other line basis, whichever is deemed by the directors to be more appropriate, to ventures under a contractual agreement.
allocate cost less assessed residual value, other than assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows: The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is included in the Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method of Freehold buildings - 2% per annum accounting.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the Leasehold property - over the term of the lease Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Plant and equipment - between 5% and 33% per annum Groups share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in value.
The carrying values of investments in associates and joint ventures include The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if appropriate, acquired goodwill.
adjusted at each balance sheet date.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is determined as its investment in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise the difference between the sales proceeds, net of selling costs, and the carrying further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
behalf of the associate or joint venture.
impairment of assets other than goodwill and intangible assets with an Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures indefinite life are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
At each balance sheet date, the directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill and intangible investments assets with an indefinite life, to determine whether there is any indication that For available-for-sale investments except for contracts for difference, gains those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent through the statement of recognised income and expense, until the security is of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows disposed or derecognised at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable recognised in equity is included in the consolidated income statement for amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
If an available-for-sale investment is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in statement for the period.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market Contracts for difference are a type of financial instrument and therefore assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of these investments are which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
recognised directly in the income statement.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 37 notes to the finanCial statements for the 52 weeks ended 26 april 2009 Continued 1. aCCountinG poliCies Continued If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated When a foreign operation is sold, combined exchange differences that have been to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cash recognised as a separate component of equity are recognised in the income generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group decrease.
enters into forward contracts See Chief Executives report.
Impairment losses recognised for cash generating units, to which goodwill has inventories been allocated, are credited initially to the carrying amount of goodwill.
Any Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to the other assets in the cash the purchase price of the manufactured products, materials, direct labour, generating unit.
transport costs and a proportion of applicable overheads.
Cost is calculated using FIFO first in, first out.
Net realisable value is based on the estimated Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of selling price less all estimated selling costs.
the asset cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed loans and receivables the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently been recognised for the asset cash generating unit in prior periods.
A reversal measured at amortised cost under the effective interest method less provision of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due according to the revenue recognition original terms of the receivable.
The amount of the impairment is the difference Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales related taxes.
Cash and cash equivalents In the case of goods sold through retail stores, revenue is recognised when Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits held goods are sold to the customer, less provision for returns.
experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and are In the case of income generated from trade marks and licences, revenue is subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant agreements or on a transactional basis when revenue is linked to sale or purchase volumes.
deferred taxation Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on temporary Revenue from property related transactions is recognised when the relevant differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their service is provided.
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or initial recognition exceptional items of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or those significant items of income and expense which, because of their size, loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax on temporary differences associated nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate with shares in subsidiaries and joint ventures is not provided if reversal of presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future.
In addition, tax losses periods to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
available to be carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax is determined interest income using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future Government grants and similar income taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be Income from government grants and similar income such as landlord utilised.
contributions and inducements that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at the Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of carrying amount of the related asset.
This is considered to reflect the true cost tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are of the asset to the Group.
The amount is recognised in the consolidated income charged or credited directly to equity in which case the related deferred tax is statement over the life of the depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation also charged or credited directly to equity.
To date the Group has not received government grants in compensation for expenses charged in the consolidated income statement.
pensions The Group operates pension plans for the benefit of certain employees, foreign currencies including both defined contribution and defined benefit plans.
The presentational currency of the Group is Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into Sterling using the exchange rates prevailing on In relation to its defined contribution plans, the Group makes contributions to the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement independently administered plans, the contributions being recognised as an of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included expense when they fall due.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on make any further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement for the period except for differences arising on the In relation to its defined benefit schemes, the Group recognises in its balance retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses which sheet the present value of its defined benefit obligations less the fair value are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange of plan assets.
The current service cost is charged against operating profit.
component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
Monetary Interest on the scheme liabilities is included in finance costs and the expected assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the return on scheme assets is included in finance income.
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated at each period end by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations which have a obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling at foreign using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to of these subsidiary undertakings are translated at average rates applicable maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liabilities.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial component of equity.
assumptions are reflected in the statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which they arise.
38 Financial Statements Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs Fair value is measured by use of a Monte Carlo method.
The expected life incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective considerations.
No share-based payment charge was recognised for the 52 interest method.
weeks ended 26 April 2009 as the directors did not consider it material to the Groups financial results or position.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months equity instruments from the balance sheet date.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments Borrowing costs, being interest and other costs incurred in connection with the issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of any direct servicing of borrowings, are recognised as an expense when incurred.
provisions dividends A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements and obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources as a deduction from equity in the period in which the dividends are declared.
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of shareholders, the amount of the obligation.
the dividends are regarded as declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
The Group provides for dilapidations costs following advice from chartered surveyors and previous experience of exit costs.
The estimated cost of fulfilling international financial reporting standards standards in issue but not yet the leasehold dilapidations obligations is discounted to present value and effective analysed between non-capital and capital components.
The capital element At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the is recognised as a decommissioning cost and depreciated over the life of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial asset.
The non-capital element is taken to the income statement in the first year Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued the following of the lease where the cost it represents is of no lasting benefit to the Group standards and interpretations which are effective for annual accounting or its landlord.
Wear and tear costs are expensed to the income statement.
periods beginning on or after the stated effective date.
These standards and Provisions for onerous lease contracts are recognised when the Group believes interpretations are not effective for and have not been applied in the preparation the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic of the consolidated financial statements: benefits expected to be received under the lease.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 effective 1 leases January 2009 Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009 leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to Presentation of Financial Statements - Puttable Financial Instruments achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The asset subject to and Obligations Arising on Liquidation effective 1 January 2009 the finance lease is depreciated over the shorter of its useful life and the lease term.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised 2008 as a liability.
effective 1 July 2009 Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does not have Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment - Vesting Conditions and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating Cancellations effective 1 January 2009 leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Incentives provided by Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial the lessor are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial minimum lease term.
Statements - Costs of Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective 1 January 2009 Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Improvements to IFRSs effective 1 January 2009 other than certain amendments effective 1 July 2009 derivative financial instruments The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations relates to IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009 purchases made in foreign currencies, principally the US dollar.
The Groups policy is to reduce substantially the risk associated with purchases denominated IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 in foreign currencies by using forward fixed rate currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign currency cash flows.
The foreign exchange IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements effective 1 January 2008 contracts do not meet the criteria for treatment as an effective hedge and accordingly any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective 1 July 2008 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Gains or losses on IFRIC 14 IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding derivative financial instruments related to financing activities are included in Requirements and their Interaction effective 1 January 2008 finance costs when recognised in the income statement.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective 1 treasury shares January 2009 The purchase price of the Groups own shares that it acquires is recognised as Treasury Shares within equity.
The difference between the market value IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective 1 and the average purchase price of shares sold out of Treasury is transferred to October 2008 retained earnings.
The directors anticipate the adoption of IAS 1 will have a significant impact employee Benefit trust on the presentation of primary statements.
The adoptions of the other stated The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is standards and interpretations in future periods are not expected to have a recognised within Own share reserve in equity.
material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain directors and employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant which is expensed to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 39
