Scottish and Southern Energy 86 Annual Report 2009 Notes on the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
v Subsequent expenditure It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the purchase method.
The acquired business is measured at the date of acquisition as the aggregate fair-value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as required under IFRS 3 Business Combinations excluding non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held-for-sale, which are recognised and measured at fairvalue less costs to sell.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair-value of the acquired business is represented as goodwill.
Intangible assets i Goodwill and impairment testing Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair-value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
The cash-generating units used for goodwill impairment testing purposes are the operating units one level below the Groups segmental businesses or are the segments themselves.
The cash-generating units are therefore representative of how goodwill was recognised and but do not represent business segments as reported to management.
If the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the income statement and will not be subsequently reversed.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the cashgenerating units fair-value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The impairment charge will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit Thereafter, the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit will be written-down proportionately.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly-controlled entities and associates.
Such goodwill is recorded within the carrying amount of the Groups investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from jointly-controlled entities and associates.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, any attributed goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
ii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the intangible asset for use or for sale.
iii Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights in June 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for CO carbon emissions trading.
2 The Group recognises carbon allowances granted in a period at nominal value nil value.
Carbon allowances purchased are recorded at cost within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised when the forecast level of emissions in any period exceed the level of allowances held and this is recorded as a current liability.
Up to the level of allowances held the liability is measured at the cost of purchased allowances.
When carbon emissions liabilities are forecast to exceed the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at the market price of allowances.
Movements in the market value of the liability are recognised in operating profit.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair-value with gains or losses arising on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is derecognised at its carrying value.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an
