Scottish and Southern Energy 83 Annual Report 2009 Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Pre-acquisition dividends are accounted for as a reduction in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, namely where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Joint ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Accounting policies Revenue recognition: energy, services and goods relating to the sale of energy Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue comprises sales of energy, use of system income, gas storage facility revenue, the value of services and facilities provided and goods sold during the year in the normal course of business.
Revenue on energy sales, comprises sales to retail end-user customers including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Revenue on energy sales also includes monies received from the electricity and gas balancing markets in the UK and other wholesale energy market sales.
Unread energy sales are estimated using historical consumption patterns taking account of industry volume reconciliation processes.
Revenue associated with business interruption insurance claims is recognised as revenue in the income statement only when it is virtually certain that the claim will be successful.
Revenue from use of energy systems includes an estimation of the volume of electricity distributed or transmitted by customers based on independently procured electricity settlement systems data.
Annual revenue is dependent on being approved by the industry regulator, Ofgem.
Certain circumstances may result in the regulatory allowed income being overor under-recovered in the financial year.
Any overor under-recovery is included into the calculation of the following years regulatory use of system revenue within agreed parameters.
No adjustment is made for overor under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current revenue.
For one-off services, such as connections, revenue is recognised at the date of service.
Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership.
