Scottish and Southern Energy 108 Annual Report 2009 Notes on the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 14.
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Country of 2009 2008 incorporation Holding % Holding % Principal activity SSE Services plc i England and Wales 100 100 Finance and IT support services SSE Energy Supply Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity supply Airtricity Holdings Limited i Ireland 100 100 Wind farm developer SSE Telecommunications Limited i Scotland 100 100 Telecommunication services SSE Generation Limited i England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Medway Power Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Keadby Generation Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Slough Heat and Power Limited ii England and Wales 100 100 Electricity generation Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission Limited iii Scotland 100 100 Transmission of electricity Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc iii Scotland 100 100 Distribution of electricity Southern Electric Power Distribution plc iii England and Wales 100 100 Distribution of electricity S S Limited iii Scotland 100 100 Electricity connections Southern Electric Contracting Limited iv England and Wales 100 100 Electrical contractor Southern Electric Gas Limited v England and Wales 100 100 Gas supply SSE Hornsea Limited v England and Wales 100 100 Gas storage Neos Networks Limited vi England and Wales 100 100 Telecommunication services The above companies shares consist of ordinary shares only.
All companies operate in Great Britain and Ireland except for SSE Insurance Limited which operates in the Isle of Man.
All companies have accounting periods ending on 31 March.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the companys annual return and the shares are held by: i Scottish and Southern Energy plc ii Shares held by SSE Generation Limited.
iii Shares held by SSE Power Distribution Limited.
iv Shares held by SSE Contracting Group Limited.
v Shares held by SSE Energy Supply Limited.
vi Shares held by SSE Telecommunications Limited.
Investment in subsidiaries Total m Company At 1 April 2007 777.9 Acquired in the year i 1,349.1 Increase in existing investments ii 10.8 At 31 March 2008 2,137.8 Increase in existing investments ii 16.4 At 31 March 2009 2,154.2 i In the previous financial year, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital in Airtricity Holdings Limited.
Details of this acquisition are included at note 15. ii The increase in existing investments held by the Company relates to equity shares in the Company awarded to the employees of the subsidiaries of the Group under the Groups share schemes, which are recognised as in increase in the cost of investment in those subsidiaries as directed by IFRIC 11.
This also includes an additional 2.1m paid in relation to the acquisition of Airtricity Holdings Limited in the previous financial year.
Scottish and Southern Energy 109 Annual Report 2009 Service concession arrangements In 50:50 partnership with Royal Bank Leasing Limited, the Group has established three companies to provide street lighting services to councils under the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
These services are thereafter sub-contracted to Southern Electric Contracting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
The companies established are as follows: Company Council Tay Valley Lighting Stoke on Trent Limited Stoke-on-Trent Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside Limited Newcastle and North Tyneside Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited Leeds City Council Under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, despite being 50% owned, the Tay Valley Lighting companies are categorised as subsidiaries and are accounted for accordingly.
The debt associated with these companies is non-recourse to the Group.
The arrangements for all three companies are materially similar.
In addition to these, the Group acquired the Seeboard Trading Limited group on 3 March 2008 which performs similar services under three PFI contracts.
The terms of the service concession arrangement are similar to those operated by the Tay Valley Lighting companies.
The council and contract holder within the acquired group are as follows: Company Council Dorset Lighting Limited Dorset County Council Ealing Lighting Limited London Borough of Ealing Islington Lighting Limited London Borough of Islington Characteristics of the arrangements Description The contracts are 25 year arrangements to replace ageing street-lighting stock and to subsequently maintain the new assets throughout each Councils areas.
Signi cant terms The cash flows under the PFI arrangements come from the unitary charge for these services paid by the Councils.
The unitary charge can only be adjusted if performance under the contract falls below the required standards.
Any significant change to the services proposed by either party is subject to a formal change procedure and agreement to such a change is required by the other party.
Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation is passed down to Southern Electric Contracting Limited or to other companies within the Seeboard Trading group through the operating sub-contract.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25 year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additional services: i Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
ii Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct 20% of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
The Groups exposure to unforeseen obligations is insured.
