Scottish and Southern Energy 84 Annual Report 2009 Notes on the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Government grants and customer contributions A government grant is recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is reasonable assurance that it will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to it.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis in the same years in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to match the depreciation charge.
Customer contributions in respect of major connections and capital grants have been recorded as deferred income and released to the income statement over the estimated life of the related assets.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
i Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
ii Finance lease obligations Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 85.
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each year during the lease term in order to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash flow hedge.
Exchange gains or losses on net investment hedges are taken against the consolidated translation reserve, a separate component of equity, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results are transferred to the translation reserve and are reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency swaps used as part of a hedge against net investment in a foreign entity are transferred to the translation reserve.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested and expected returns on pension scheme assets recognised in the income statement.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on pension scheme liabilities and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
