Scottish and Southern Energy 82 Annual Report 2009 Notes on the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Scottish and Southern Energy plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth PH1 3AQ.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Chief Executives Statement at pages 8 to 17.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 20 May 2009.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and expects to issue further debt in the capital markets during 2009 10 to meet its funding requirements.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note 29 of the financial statements on page 133.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair-value: certain derivative financial instruments, financial instruments classified as available for sale and the assets and liabilities of the Group pension scheme.
The directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at pages 89 and 90.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, the Group has disclosed additional information in respect of jointly controlled entities and associates, exceptional items and certain re-measurements on the face of the income statement to aid understanding of the Groups financial performance.
An item is treated as exceptional if it is considered unusual by nature and scale and of such significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood.
Certain re-measurements are re-measurements arising on certain commodity, interest rate and currency contracts which are accounted for as held for trading or as fair-value hedges in accordance with the Groups policy for such financial instruments.
This excludes commodity contracts not treated as financial instruments under IAS 39 where held for the Groups own use requirements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted by Group from 1 April 2008: k IFRIC 14 IAS 19, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Assets, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The impact of adopting this interpretation was to increase liabilities recognised in relation to the Southern Electric Pension Scheme by 89.8m.
The following published standards and interpretations are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: k IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements k IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes k IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate k IFRIC 16 Net Investment in a Foreign Operation k IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners k IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers k IFRS 8 Operating Segments k Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements A Revised Presentation k Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs k Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated Financial Statements and Accounting for Investments in Subsidiaries k Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations k Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 The impact of these new standards has not been fully analysed and this will be assessed in future accounting periods.
