Scottish and Southern Energy 89 Annual Report 2009 Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair-value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales.
iii Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a manner similar to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, in the translation reserve, and any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.
v Convertible bond The Group has issued a convertible bond which represents debt that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair-value.
This is accounted for as a compound financial instrument, net of transaction costs.
The equity component of the convertible bond is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principal payments, discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest method.
vi Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
vii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
viii Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair-value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair-value hedge relationship.
ix Share capital Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity.
Costs associated with the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds of issue.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Decommissioning costs The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the estimated cost of decommissioning.
Decommissioning dates are uncertain but are expected to be between 2009 and 2035.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation for the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management necessarily makes judgements and estimates that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions underlying the estimates could result in a significant impact to the financial statements.
The most critical of these accounting judgement and estimation areas are noted.
i Revenue recognition Revenue on energy sales includes an estimate of the value of electricity or gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
This will have been estimated by using historical consumption patterns and takes into consideration industry reconciliation processes for total consumption by supplier.
At the balance sheet date, the estimated consumption by customers will either have been billed estimated billed revenue or accrued unbilled revenue.
Management apply judgement to the measurement of the quantum of the estimated consumption and to the valuation of that consumption.
The judgements applied, and the assumptions underpinning these judgements are considered to be appropriate.
However, a change in these assumptions would impact upon the amount of revenue recognised.
