Scottish and Southern Energy 85 Annual Report 2009 Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of selfconstructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of other directly attributable costs.
All items of property, plant and equipment are accounted for under the cost model within IAS 16.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
ii Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair-value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also allocated on a straight line basis over the lease term.
iii Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
iv Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Years Hydro civil assets 100 Power stations 20 to 60 Wind farm developments 20 to 25 Overhead lines, underground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Shop refurbishment, fixtures, equipment, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
