Scottish and Southern Energy 90 Annual Report 2009 Notes on the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ii Retirement bene ts The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the period are set after consultation with qualified actuaries.
While these assumptions are believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the earnings of the Group.
The value of scheme assets is impacted by the asset ceiling test which restricts the surplus that can be recognised to assets that can be recovered fully through refunds or reductions in future contributions.
iii Impairment testing The Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that the value of those assets is impaired.
In assessing for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of the assets, or the appropriate CGU, is measured as the higher of their fair-value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations requires the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective CGUs and to select and an appropriate discount rate in order to calculated their present value.
The fair-values less costs to sell methodology used for the wind farms CGUs also requires the discounting of cash flows from the projects within the respective CGUs.
The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement.
Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets within the respective CGUs.
iv Provisions and contingencies The assessments undertaken in recognising provisions and contingencies have been made in accordance with IAS 37.
The evaluation of the likelihood of the contingent events has required best judgement by management regarding the probability of exposure to potential loss.
Should circumstances change following unforeseeable developments, this likelihood could alter.
v Financial Instruments fair-values The valuation of the financial instruments is based upon published price quotations in active markets and valuation techniques where such information is not available.
Energy commodity contracts are classified as either derivative contracts under IAS 39 or as contracts for the Groups own use requirements.
Only IAS 39 derivatives are accounted for on a fair-value basis.
More detail on this is included in note 29. vi Exceptionals and re-measurements The criteria for identifying what constitutes an exceptional item are outlined in note 1 Exceptional Items and Certain Re-measurements.
CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY Intangible assets allowances and emissions In the financial statements up to 31 March 2008, the policy in relation to CO carbon allowances granted was to recognise these 2 allowances as a current intangible asset at fair-value at the date of grant.
Carbon emissions liabilities were measured at the cost of purchased or granted allowances up to the level of allowances held.
As a consequence, to the extent that granted allowances assets were recognised, an equal and opposite component of the emissions liability was recognised.
In the current year, the Group has ceased to recognise granted allowances at fair-value and instead records these at nominal value nil value.
This change has been made to simplify disclosures in relation to the EU ETS and will bring the Group in line with the emerging consensus on treatment of granted allowances.
This change in accounting policy has nil effect on reserves.
The restatements to the comparative year balance sheet are as follows: Impact of change in disclosure: 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 m m Other intangible assets 597.8 190.6 Less: restatement 202.0 19.2 395.8 171.4 Other creditors 910.4 526.1 Less: restatement 202.0 19.2 708.4 506.9 Impact on reserves Other restated amounts In addition, within the notes to the financial statements, certain items have been reclassified to enhance understanding of the prior year results and to aid comparability with the current year presentation.
Certain provisional fair-value estimates in relation to acquisitions in the previous year have been agreed and are reflected in the current year.
These have no impact on equity or the income statement.
