Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Group accounting policies Associates An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term In the financial statements and related notes, the term Company refers to SSL International plc, a company incorporated in the UK: the interest, usually from 20 per cent to 50 per cent of the equity voting rights, over which it has the power to exert significant influence, but not Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group or SSL and equity control over the financial and operating policy decisions.
The Groups share of results of its associates is included in the consolidated income account the Groups interest in associates.
statement on the equity accounting basis from the date that significant a Basis of preparation influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going The holding value of associates in the Groups balance sheet is concern basis, in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred calculated by reference to the Groups cost of investment plus post thousand and are prepared on an historical cost basis, modified to acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the entity include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as less any impairment in value.
The carrying value of investments in described below.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a associates includes any acquired goodwill.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Where the reporting date of the associated undertaking adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the differs from that of the Group, the Groups share of results included foreseeable future as detailed in the financial review on page 31. in the consolidated income statement is based on rolled forward Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in information which coincides with the Groups reporting date.
preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Transactions eliminated on consolidation Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains UK GAAP, these are presented on pages 96 to 103.
The accounting arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent policies set out below have been applied consistently in dealing with of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated items which are considered material in relation to the financial in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there statements, except as noted below.
is no evidence of impairment.
In these financial statements the following new standards c Use of estimates and judgements have been adopted for the first time.
The preparation of the financial statements requires management Amendments to IAS 23: Borrowing Costs.
The amendments to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the to IAS 23 eliminate the option available under the previous version application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of of the standard to recognise all borrowing costs immediately as an assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
To the extent that borrowing costs relate to the acquisition, assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revision to accounting construction or production of a qualifying asset, the revised standard estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised requires that they be capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
and in any future periods affected.
The revised standard applies to borrowing costs relating to qualifying The Directors believe that the most critical accounting assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise after 1 January 2009, although earlier adoption is permitted.
from accounting for defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 The revised standard has been adopted with effect from Employee Benefits, for goodwill and intangible assets under IAS 36 1 April 2008, and borrowing costs of 0.6 million have been capitalised Intangible Assets and provisions under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent during the year ended 31 March 2009 with regard to three qualifying Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Judgement is also required in the assets, those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get classification of borrowings between current and non-current.
No adjustment has been made to the Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in comparatives as the effective date is 1 April 2008. accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, but SSLs management considers the following to be the most significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for important accounting policies in the context of the Groups operations.
future salary and pension increases, inflation, the discount rate applied b Basis of consolidation to the liabilities, investment returns and member mortality that The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements underpin their valuations.
Information on the assumptions used and of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries the sensitivity of the liability to a change on the assumptions can be and the Groups share of interests in associates.
The measurement of intangible assets both on business Subsidiaries combinations and other asset acquisitions requires assessment of Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the existence of such assets and whether they can be separately and the Group has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the reliably measured.
Assumptions and estimates are made about future financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic cash flows to value identified intangible assets.
Annual impairment benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries reviews are also performed in accordance with IAS 36.
For details of are included in the consolidated financial information from the date goodwill and intangibles and the impairment reviews performed refer control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where the reporting date of the subsidiary undertaking differs When accounting for provisions, the Group has taken internal from that of the Group, the Groups share of results included in the and external advice in assessing the level of provision required.
Details consolidated income statement is based on rolled forward information of the provisions made and the key assumptions can be found in note 16. which coincides with the Groups reporting date.
The basis of the classification of the Groups committed borrowing facility is provided in note 15.
56 57 Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2009
