Company accounting policies continued i Transaction exposure hedging g Share-based payments Forward currency contracts hedging transaction exposures are fair The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
The valued through the profit and loss account.
cost to the Company of making awards in the form of shares or rights to shares under these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account ii Fair value hedges as an employee expense over the period to which the employees Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges performance relates.
The Company issues equity settled share-based when they hedge the Companys exposure to changes in the fair value payments to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiary of a recognised asset or liability.
Any gain or loss from remeasuring the undertakings.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the profit and loss fair value at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, taking account.
Any change in the fair value of the hedged item, attributable into account the terms and conditions precedent at the time of grant.
to the hedged risk, is adjusted against the carrying value of the hedged The impact of any non-market vesting conditions is excluded.
item and recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is iii Cash flow hedges determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instruments granted and the number of equity instruments which eventually vest.
designated as a cashflow hedge are recognised directly in equity to At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is number of instruments that are expected to vest.
It recognises the ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss Derivative financial instruments qualifying for fair value hedge account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining accounting are principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps.
When awards are made to employees of subsidiary undertakings and the fair value of the award is not recharged to the Discontinuance of hedge accounting subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution to the Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the subsidiary, with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment.
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
h Dividend income Dividend income from subsidiary undertakings is recognised within other income at the point the dividend has been declared.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
i Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures and has not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group.
98 99 Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes relating to the Company accounts i Intangible assets Software development and licences m Cost At 1 April 2008 7.9 Additions 2.6 At 31 March 2009 10.5 Amortisation and impairment amounts At 1 April 2008 1.6 Charge for the year 2.0 At 31 March 2009 3.6 Carrying amounts At 31 March 2008 6.3 At 31 March 2009 6.9 ii Tangible assets Plant, equipment and motor vehicles m Cost At 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 1.0 Depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2008 0.9 Charge for the year 0.1 At 31 March 2009 1.0 Net book value At 31 March 2008 0.1 At 31 March 2009
