Company accounting policies As used in the financial statements and related notes, the term c Investments Company refers to SSL International plc.
The separate financial Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for statements of the Company are presented as required by the any impairment.
Companies Act 1985 and have been prepared in accordance with d Taxation UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices.
The charge for taxation is based on the loss profit for the year A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is presented on and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing page 95. differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation Basis of preparation and accounting purposes.
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented Credit is taken for advance corporation tax written off in as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the previous years when it is recovered against corporation tax liabilities.
separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided where a with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP.
The taxation liability will arise as a result of transactions or events which accounting policies under UK GAAP are presented below.
have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are The financial statements have been prepared on the historical recognised to the extent that it is regarded that they will be recovered.
cost basis, with the exception of financial instruments as described Provision is made at rates expected to be applicable when the liabilities below.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
or assets are likely to crystallise.
In accordance with Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the e Foreign currencies Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and of the parent company, SSL International plc, is disclosed in note x. liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the The Company has taken the exemption from the requirement to rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting f Derivative financial instruments policies.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the In accordance with exemptions under FRS 29: Financial Instruments: years presented.
Disclosures, the Company has not presented the financial instruments disclosures required by the standard, as disclosures a Tangible fixed assets which comply with the standard are included in the consolidated Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write tangible fixed assets down to a The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce residual value over their estimated useful economic lives at the exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The following annual rates: Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for Plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis speculative purposes.
over a period of between 415 years.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, and b Intangible assets those hedged items forming part of a fair value hedge, financial Software developments and licences capitalised are stated at cost instruments are held at amortised cost.
less accumulated amortisation and are amortised on a straight line Hedge accounting basis over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: The accounting for the Companys various hedging activities is detailed overleaf: Software development: 510 years: and Software licences: over the length of the licence.
