0920 T&L Financials 02. qxd 12 6 09 16:57 Page 158 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off Accounting basis the cost of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful life.
The parent company financial statements are prepared The tangible fixed assets comprise plant and machinery which under the historical cost convention in accordance with are depreciated over a period of 3 to 28 years.
Impairment the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies values may not be recoverable.
Act 1985, the Companys profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses are not Investments presented in these financial statements.
The Tate & Lyle Unless they are financed by foreign currency borrowings and PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended designated as a fair value hedging relationship, investments in 31 March 2009 contain a consolidated statement of cash subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less amounts flows.
Consequently the Company has taken the exemption written off where there is a permanent diminution in value.
available in FRS1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements, and Investments in shares in overseas undertakings that are has not presented its own cash flow statement.
financed by foreign currency borrowings and designated as a fair value hedging relationship are retranslated into pounds New UK standards and interpretations adopted sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date The following new standards, amendments and interpretations and the resulting exchange gains and losses are recognised in were adopted by the Company in the year.
Adoption had no the profit and loss account.
Exchange gains and losses on the effect on the results, financial position of the Company or its related foreign currency borrowings are also recognised in the disclosures.
profit and loss account in accordance with FRS23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Amendment to FRS17: Retirement Benefits Amendments and clarification amendments to FRS26: An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Company has control over its operating and financial policies.
and FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and consequential amendments to UITF42 Reassessment An undertaking is regarded as an associate if the Company of Embedded Derivatives holds a participating interest and has significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Significant New UK standards and interpretations not adopted influence generally exists where the Company holds more than The following amendments to Financial Reporting Standards 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
have been issued but have not been adopted yet by the Company: All loans and receivables to and from subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost less amounts written off where deemed Amendment to FRS8 Related Party Disclosures unrecoverable.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based Payment Vesting conditions and cancellations Leases UITF Abstract 46 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operating lease costs are charged to profit as incurred.
Operation Research and development Amendment to FRS25 Financial Instruments: Presentation All expenditure on research and development is charged Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on to profit as incurred.
liquidation Amendment to FRS26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards The amendments to FRS8 and FRS20 and UITF Abstract 46 are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2009.
Amendments to FRS25, FRS26 and the improvements to Financial Reporting Standards are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2010.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's profit for the year or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Company's financial statements.
158 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Financials 02. qxd 12 6 09 16:57 Page 159 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies continued Dividend distribution A dividend distribution to the Companys equity holders is Retirement benefits recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements The Company contributes to the Group pension plan operated in the period in which the dividends are approved by the in the UK.
Details of the plan are included within Note 31 of Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, the Group financial statements.
As permitted under FRS17 by the Board of directors.
Retirement Benefits, the plan is accounted for as a defined contribution plan, as the employer cannot identify its share of Share capital the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.
The employers Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs contributions relate to the current service period only and are directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Deferred tax Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on timing share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury differences between the recognition of gains and losses in shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration the accounts and their recognition for tax purposes that have paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the tax is not recognised on permanent differences or on timing Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, differences arising on unremitted profits of overseas reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently subsidiaries.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the be sufficient future taxable profits to permit tax relief of the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable underlying timing differences.
to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy share options granted to employees under the Foreign currencies Groups share option schemes.
The trustee purchases the Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated Companys shares on the open market using loans made by into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the last the Company or other loans guaranteed by the Company.
day of the financial period the closing rate.
Profits and losses are translated into pounds sterling at the prevailing rate at the time of transaction and credited or charged to the profit and loss account.
Share-based compensation The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Details of the plans are included within Note 27 of the Group financial statements.
The fair value of employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, for options granted with non-market vesting conditions, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 159 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
