0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets or operations c Share-based compensation engaged in providing products or services that are subject The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based to risks and returns that are different from those of other compensation plans.
The fair value of employee services business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised providing products or services within a particular economic as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the environment that are subject to risks and returns that vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of are different from those segments operating in other the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market economic environments.
vesting conditions for example, earnings targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the Discontinued operations and assets held for sale number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
Business components that represent separate major lines of At each balance sheet date, for options granted with nonbusiness or geographical areas of operations are recognised market vesting conditions, the Group revises its estimates as discontinued if the operations have been disposed of, of the number of options that are expected to become are being abandoned or meet the criteria to be classified exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original as held for sale.
estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and if their carrying amount will be principally recovered through share premium when the options are exercised.
a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly Research and development probable, expected to be completed within one year and the Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its in the year in which it is incurred.
Operations held for sale are held at the is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it lower of their carrying amount on the date they are classified is incurred unless it is probable that future economic benefits as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
will flow to the Group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements can be demonstrated and there is an intention to complete In order to prepare these consolidated financial statements and utilise the asset.
When the recognition criteria are met, in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2, development costs are capitalised as an intangible asset management has used estimates and judgements to establish and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated the amounts at which certain items are recorded.
Critical useful life from the time the asset is available for use.
accounting estimates and judgements are those that have the greatest impact on the financial statements and require Borrowing costs the most difficult, subjective and complex judgements about Borrowing costs directly arising from the purchase, matters that are inherently uncertain.
Estimates are based construction or production of an asset are capitalised on factors including historical experience and expectations as part of the cost of that asset.
of future events that management believe to be reasonable.
However, given the judgemental nature of such estimates, Exceptional items actual results could be different from the assumptions used.
Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense that The critical accounting estimates and judgements are set are material in amount and unlikely to recur and which merit out below.
separate disclosure in order to provide an understanding of the Groups underlying financial performance.
Examples of Impairment of assets events giving rise to the disclosure of material items of income Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact and expense as exceptional items include, but are not limited income.
In order to determine whether impairments are to, impairment events, disposals of operations or individual required the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the assets, litigation claims by or against the Group and the asset.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future restructuring of components of the Groups operations.
cash flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount Government grants factor is applied to obtain a current value value in use.
A government grant is recognised when there is reasonable The fair value less costs to sell of an asset is used if this assurance that any conditions attached to the grant will results in an amount in excess of value in use.
be satisfied and the grants will be received.
A government grant is recognised at its fair value and is accounted for as a Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are deduction against the cost concerned or within other income based on managements expectations of future volumes and over the periods necessary to match the grants with the margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity related costs that they are intended to compensate.
of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects Dividend distribution requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure A dividend distribution to the Companys equity holders is has not been approved at the balance sheet date.
recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders or, in the case of interim dividends, by the Board of directors.
108 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:52 Page 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Provisions The Group recognises a provision where a legal or Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate based constructive obligation exists at the balance sheet date on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
if appropriate for circumstances specific to the asset being Where appropriate, future cash outflows that are expected tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is impacted to arise over a number of years are discounted to a present by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and market value using a relevant discount rate.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is reviewed on an annual basis.
At the balance sheet date, provisions included amounts for insurance claims payable by the Groups reinsurance Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. company, legal matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs.
Retirement benefits Among the range of retirement benefits provided in Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and businesses around the Group are a number of defined benefit adjusted for managements best current estimates, the pension plans and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts in the USA.
The amounts recorded in the financial statements settled may be different from those provided.
for both of these types of arrangement are based on a Further details are set out in Note 32. number of assumptions, changes to which could have a material impact on the reported amounts.
Taxation Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined benefit plans and The Group operates in a large number of tax jurisdictions the liability under the healthcare plan is shown in the balance around the world.
Tax regulations generally are complex sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan and in some jurisdictions agreeing tax liabilities with local assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are tax authorities can take several years.
Consequently, at the based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities, including balance sheet date, tax liabilities and assets are based on healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial estimates of the managements best estimate of the future amounts that will present value of future pension or other benefits that will be be settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality from those expected.
Deferred tax assets mainly represent rates and the discount rate used to calculate the present retirement benefit obligations that the Group expects to value.
If the mortality rates assumption changed, a one year recover at some time in the future and by their nature the increase to longevity at age 60 would increase the liability by amounts recorded are therefore dependent on managements 30 million.
The main financial assumption is the real discount judgement about future events.
rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 30. inflation.
If this assumption increased by 0.1%, the gross plan liabilities would decrease by approximately 13 million.
The income statement generally comprises a regular charge to operating profit and a finance charge, which represents the net of expected income from plan assets and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These calculations are based on expected outcomes at the start of the financial year.
The income statement is most sensitive to changes in expected returns from plan assets and the discount rate used to calculate the interest charge on plan liabilities.
A 0.1% increase in the assumption of the real discount rate would increase the finance expense by approximately 0.2 million.
Full details of these assumptions, which are based on advice from the Groups actuaries, are set out in Note 31.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 109 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
