0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 98 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC: Group financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Tate & Lyle We read other information contained in the annual report PLC for the year ended 31 March 2009, which comprise the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement financial statements.
The other information comprises the of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated balance Overview of the year, the What we do, How we performed sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, and the Notes to and the How we run the business sections, the directors the consolidated financial statements.
These Group financial report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration statements have been prepared under the accounting policies report, the ten-year review and the information for investors.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have reported separately on the parent company financial inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our statements of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
2009 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test and the Group financial statements in accordance with basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the of the significant estimates and judgements made by the statement of directors responsibilities.
directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements adequately disclosed.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the information and explanations which we considered with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Opinion Group financial statements have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you as to whether in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, our opinion the information given in the directors report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at The information given in the directors report includes that 31 March 2009 and of its profit and cash flows specific information presented in the What we do and for the year then ended: How we performed sections that are cross-referred from the Group financial statements have been properly the business review section of the directors report.
We also prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the directors report is consistent information specified by law regarding directors remuneration with the Group financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement  LLP reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Chartered Accountants and of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by Registered Auditors the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we 1 Embankment Place report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether London WC2N 6RH the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks 27 May 2009 and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
