0920 T&L Financials 02. qxd 12 6 09 16:57 Page 158 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Parent company accounting policies Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off Accounting basis the cost of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful life.
The parent company financial statements are prepared The tangible fixed assets comprise plant and machinery which under the historical cost convention in accordance with are depreciated over a period of 3 to 28 years.
Impairment the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting reviews are undertaken if there are indications that the carrying standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies values may not be recoverable.
Act 1985, the Companys profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses are not Investments presented in these financial statements.
The Tate & Lyle Unless they are financed by foreign currency borrowings and PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended designated as a fair value hedging relationship, investments in 31 March 2009 contain a consolidated statement of cash subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less amounts flows.
Consequently the Company has taken the exemption written off where there is a permanent diminution in value.
available in FRS1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements, and Investments in shares in overseas undertakings that are has not presented its own cash flow statement.
financed by foreign currency borrowings and designated as a fair value hedging relationship are retranslated into pounds New UK standards and interpretations adopted sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date The following new standards, amendments and interpretations and the resulting exchange gains and losses are recognised in were adopted by the Company in the year.
Adoption had no the profit and loss account.
Exchange gains and losses on the effect on the results, financial position of the Company or its related foreign currency borrowings are also recognised in the disclosures.
profit and loss account in accordance with FRS23 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
Amendment to FRS17: Retirement Benefits Amendments and clarification amendments to FRS26: An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Company has control over its operating and financial policies.
and FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and consequential amendments to UITF42 Reassessment An undertaking is regarded as an associate if the Company of Embedded Derivatives holds a participating interest and has significant influence, but not control, over its operating and financial policies.
Significant New UK standards and interpretations not adopted influence generally exists where the Company holds more than The following amendments to Financial Reporting Standards 20% and less than 50% of the shareholders voting rights.
have been issued but have not been adopted yet by the Company: All loans and receivables to and from subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost less amounts written off where deemed Amendment to FRS8 Related Party Disclosures unrecoverable.
Amendment to FRS20 Share-based Payment Vesting conditions and cancellations Leases UITF Abstract 46 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operating lease costs are charged to profit as incurred.
Operation Research and development Amendment to FRS25 Financial Instruments: Presentation All expenditure on research and development is charged Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on to profit as incurred.
liquidation Amendment to FRS26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items Improvements to Financial Reporting Standards The amendments to FRS8 and FRS20 and UITF Abstract 46 are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2009.
Amendments to FRS25, FRS26 and the improvements to Financial Reporting Standards are effective for the Company in its accounting period beginning on 1 April 2010.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's profit for the year or equity.
The adoptions may affect disclosures in the Company's financial statements.
