0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Basis of consolidation currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of a Subsidiaries the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the from the settlement of such transactions and from the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally translation at period end exchange rates of monetary assets accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised voting rights and taking into account the existence of potential in the income statement, except when deferred in equity voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net date on which control is transferred to the Group.
fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for c Group entities the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised From 1 April 2004, the results and financial position of all the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of Groups entities that have a functional currency different from a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date the presentational currency are translated into the presentation of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated currency as follows: at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the identifiable i assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
adjustments for each balance sheet presented, Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies balance sheet: used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company ii income and expenses for each income statement and transactions and balances between Group entities are cash flows are translated at weighted average exchange eliminated on consolidation.
rates as a reasonable approximation to the rates prevailing b Joint ventures on the transaction dates: and An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the Group has joint iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as control over its operating and financial policies.
The Groups a separate component of equity.
interests in jointly-controlled entities are accounted for by Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were recognised proportionate consolidation, whereby the Groups share of the in retained earnings.
joint ventures income and expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows are combined on a line-by-line basis with similar On consolidation, exchange differences arising from items in the Groups financial statements.
Where necessary, borrowings and other currency instruments designated adjustments are made to the financial statements of joint as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences those used by the Group.
The Group recognises the portion that have accumulated since 1 April 2004 are recognised of gains or losses on the sale of assets to the joint venture in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group does not recognise its share of profits or losses from the joint venture Property, plant and equipment that result from the Groups purchase of assets from the joint Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and venture until it resells the assets to an external entity.
c Associates Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost An entity is regarded as an associate if the Group has less depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes significant influence, but not control, over its operating and expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition financial policies.
Significant influence generally exists where of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets the Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, shareholders voting rights.
Associates are accounted for as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic under the equity method whereby the Groups income benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the statement includes its share of their profits and losses and Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
the Groups balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
All repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial the income statement during the financial period in which statements of associates to bring the accounting policies used they are incurred.
into line with those used by the Group.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group to allocate the cost or revalued amount of each asset to does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred its residual value over its useful economic life as follows: obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Freehold land: No depreciation Foreign currency translation Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years a Functional and presentational currency Leasehold property: Period of the lease Items included in the financial statements of each of the Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years primary economic environment in which the entity operates The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed the functional currency.
The consolidated financial at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate.
statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the An assets carrying amount is written down immediately Groups presentational currency.
to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
104 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued d Other intangible assets Other intangible assets mainly include certain development During the year the useful lives of certain assets were expenditure and software costs.
Costs incurred on adjusted, which resulted in a reduction in the depreciation development projects relating to the design and testing of charge of approximately 6 million.
new or improved products are recognised as intangible assets when the IAS38 recognition criteria are met.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing Capitalised development costs are amortised from the the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are commencement of the commercial production of the product included in the income statement.
on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
Research and other development expenditures are recognised Leased assets as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership in a subsequent period.
are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the Impairment leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject payments.
The corresponding leasing commitments, net to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
In addition, assets in the course of construction are not Leasing payments are analysed between capital and interest depreciated and are subject to annual impairment review.
components so that the interest element is charged to the Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are income statement over the period of the lease at a constant reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be liability outstanding.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets to the income statement.
fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes All other leases are treated as operating leases with annual of assessing impairment, assets other than goodwill are rentals charged to the income statement, net of any incentives grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately granted to the lessee, over the term of the lease.
Goodwill is allocated to units representing the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored Intangible assets by the Groups Board of Directors for internal management a Goodwill purposes.
Further details are given in Note 3.
Goodwill is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration exchanged in a business combination, Financial instruments including directly attributable acquisition costs, and the net fair a Available-for-sale financial assets values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and is Equity instruments held by the Group and designated as capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and available-for-sale are carried at fair value, with movements in whenever there is an indication of impairment and is carried fair value recognised directly in equity.
Cumulative fair value at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
gains or losses on an asset are recycled through the income statement when the asset is disposed or impaired.
A significant Where the acquired interest in the net fair value of the or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its identifiable assets and liabilities exceeds the cost of the cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are business combination, the excess is recognised immediately impaired.
Impairments are recognised in the income statement.
b Loans and receivables Gains and losses on the disposal of a business component Non-current and current receivables and loans granted are include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the recognised initially at fair value and thereafter carried at amortised entity sold.
cost less provisions for impairment.
Movements in carrying value are recognised in the income statement.
b Patents and other intellectual property Patents and other intellectual property are shown at historical c Borrowings cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of Where the assets are acquired as part of a business transaction costs incurred.
Where borrowings are designated combination, historical cost is based on their fair values as as hedged items under fair value hedges, they are subsequently at the date of the combination.
Amortisation of the assets remeasured for fair value changes in respect of the hedged is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of their risk with such changes recognised in the income statement.
Otherwise, borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction c Other acquired intangible assets costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income Other acquired intangible assets are intangible assets arising statement over the period of the borrowings using the on consolidation of acquired businesses and include brands, effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current recipes, customer relationships and supplier networks.
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer Amortisation of the assets is recognised on a straight-line settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the basis over the period of their expected benefit.
d Commodity trading instruments Commodity instruments acquired for trading purposes are carried at fair value.
Movements in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 105 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued Where no market prices are available, the fair value of financial liabilities is calculated with reference to discounted expected e Commodity and treasury hedging instruments future cash flows.
Under IAS39, hedging relationships are categorised by type and must meet strict criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable i Cash flow hedges value with the exception of certain items of merchandisable Hedges of firm commitments and highly probable forecast agricultural commodities which are stated at market value, transactions, including forecast intra-group transactions in line with regional industry accounting practices.
that are expected to affect consolidated profit or loss, are designated as cash flow hedges.
To the extent that Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct movements in the fair values of these instruments labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they are bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
recognised in the hedging reserve in equity until the period Cost is calculated using the first in first out or weighted during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit average cost methods, appropriate to the materials and or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss is production processes involved.
Net realisable value represents recognised in the income statement, offsetting the the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to value of the hedged transaction.
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
ii Fair value hedges Hedges against the movement in fair value of recognised Cash and cash equivalents assets and liabilities are designated as fair value hedges.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held To the extent that movements in the fair values of these at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments instruments effectively offset the underlying risk being with original maturities of three months or less, and bank hedged they are recognised in the income statement overdrafts which are not considered to be borrowings in nature.
by offset against the hedged transaction.
iii Hedges of net investments Share capital Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation are Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs designated as net investment hedges.
To the extent directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in that movements in the fair values of these instruments equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
effectively offset the underlying risk being hedged they Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity are recognised in the translation reserve until the period share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury during which a foreign operation is disposed of or partially shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration disposed of, at which point the cumulative gain or loss paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to difference recognised on the translation of the the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, net investment.
Where such shares are subsequently Hedge accounting is discontinued at the point when the sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any hedging relationship no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the In the case of cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable movement in the fair value of the hedging instrument to the Companys equity holders.
These shares are used previously recognised in equity up to that point is retained to satisfy share options granted to employees under the there until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss, Groups share option schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP unless the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, trust purchases the Companys shares on the open market in which case the cumulative movement in fair value is using loans made by the Company or other loans guaranteed transferred to profit or loss immediately.
Movements in the by the Company.
fair value of hedging instruments where the relationship failed to meet the IAS39 hedge accounting criteria or where the Provisions movement represents the ineffective portion of a qualifying Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when hedging relationship are recognised in the income statement the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a immediately as other income and expense or net finance result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow expense, as appropriate.
of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably measured.
If the effect is material, f Embedded derivatives provisions are measured using expected future cash flows Where an embedded derivative is not closely related to the discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market host contract and where the host contract itself is not already assessments of the time value of money and, where recognised at fair value, movements in the fair value of the appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The impact embedded derivative are separated from the associated of unwinding any discount is taken to finance expense.
transaction and, except where the embedded derivative is designated as a cash flow hedging instrument, recognised Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract g Fair values are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations Fair values are based on market values where they are under the contract.
For unlisted securities the Group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other similar instruments and discounted cash flow analysis.
106 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 12 6 09 16:51 Page 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2 Group accounting policies continued A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on Income taxes retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as age, years of service and compensation.
as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which enacted by the balance sheet date.
the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets method in respect of temporary differences arising from to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service differences between the carrying amount of assets and in the current and prior periods.
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, The amounts recognised in the balance sheet in respect of deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary defined benefit pension plans are the present value of the differences except as noted below and deferred tax assets defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for profits will be available against which deductible temporary actuarial gains or losses charged or credited to equity and differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit or from the initial recognition other than in a business credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future which affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on difference and it is probable that the temporary difference the employees remaining in service for a specified period of will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset or adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are liability is settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the charged or credited to equity immediately through the income statement, except when it relates to items credited statement of other recognised income and expense.
or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme demonstrates that the scheme is in surplus, the recognised asset is limited to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate that for which the Group expects to benefit in future by to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the refunds or a reduction in contribution.
Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans Revenue recognition on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group a Sales of goods and services has no further payment obligations once the contributions Sales comprise the amount receivable in the ordinary course have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as of business, net of value added and sales taxes, for goods employee benefit expense when they are due.
Sales are recognised at the point or contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a points at which the Group has performed its obligations in cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
connection with the contractual terms of the sales agreement, and in exchange obtains the right to consideration.
b Other post-employment obligations Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare b Interest income benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up using the effective interest method.
to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over c Dividend income the period of employment using an accounting methodology Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
Actuarial gains payment is established.
and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity Employee benefits immediately.
These obligations are valued annually by a Pension obligations independent qualified actuaries.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
The schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee payments to insurance companies or trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 107 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
