0920 T&L Financials 01. qxd 16 6 09 18:05 Page 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Presentation of financial statements New IFRS standards and interpretations adopted From 1 April 2008 the following amendments and General information interpretations became effective and were adopted The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC are the by the Group: development, manufacture and marketing of food and industrial ingredients that have been made from renewable IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements resources.
The Group operates more than 45 production IFRIC14 IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset facilities and in numerous partnerships and joint ventures Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction throughout Europe, the Americas and South East Asia.
Amendments to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS7 Financial Instruments: The Company is a public limited company incorporated Disclosure on reclassification of financial instruments and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The adoption of these amendments and interpretations has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year Basis of preparation or equity.
These consolidated financial statements are presented on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards New IFRS standards and interpretations not adopted IFRSs adopted by the European Union and interpretations The following standards, amendments and interpretations are issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations not yet effective and have not been adopted early by the Group: Committee IFRIC and have been prepared in accordance IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes with the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority IFRIC15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate and the Companies Act 1985, as applicable to companies IFRIC16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation reporting under IFRS.
Amendment to IFRS2 Share-based Payment Vesting These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conditions and cancellations accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2 and Amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures under the historical cost convention, except where modified by Improving disclosures about financial instruments the revaluation of certain financial instruments and commodities.
IFRS8 Operating Segments Revised IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements These consolidated financial statements are presented in Revised IAS23 Borrowing Costs pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Revised IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS controlled entity or associate requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also Amendment to IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation requires management to exercise its judgement in the process and IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity and Improvements to International Financial Reporting areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to Standards the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 3.
IFRIC17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners The financial information for the year ended 31 March 2008 IFRIC18 Transfers of Assets from Customers is derived from the statutory financial statements for that year, Revised IFRS3 Business Combinations and amendment except that the comparative information has been reclassified to IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements as a result of the discontinued operations of International Amendment to IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition Sugar Trading.
In addition, certain other comparative and Measurement Eligible hedged items information has been restated to conform with the current The above standards, amendments, interpretations and year presentation.
improvements in IFRSs are all effective for the Group for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2009, with the exception Use of adjusted measures of IFRIC17, IFRIC18, the revised IFRS3 and associated Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax and adjusted amendments to IAS27 and the amendment to IAS39 on earnings per share information.
These measures are used eligible hedged items, which will become effective for the by Tate & Lyle for internal performance analysis and incentive Group for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2010. compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms The adoption of these standards, amendments and adjusted and exceptional items are not defined terms interpretations is not expected to have a material impact under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with on the Groups profit for those years or equity.
The adoptions similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
may affect disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
The term adjusted refers The parent company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not adopted IFRS to the relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional as its statutory reporting basis.
Audited financial statements items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on for the parent company, prepared in accordance with UK acquisition of businesses.
A reconciliation of statutory to GAAP, are set out on pages 156 to 163. adjusted information is provided in Note 43.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 103 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
