98 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 2.
Directors 2 2 The Executive Directors received all of their remuneration, as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 50, from Taylor Wimpey Developments Limited and Taylor Wimpey UK Limited.
However, it is not practicable to allocate such costs between their services as Executives of Taylor Wimpey Developments Limited and Taylor Wimpey UK Limited and their services as Directors of Taylor Wimpey plc and other Group companies.
The fees of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors, which are wholly attributable to the Company, are disclosed on page 48 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company was recharged costs of 8.0m 2008: 6.3m in respect of staff costs for Directors and employees of subsidiary companies who provided services to Taylor Wimpey plc during the year, which includes amounts in respect of employer contributions to both defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
Information in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is provided in Note 22, to the Taylor Wimpey plc consolidated financial statements.
Contributions in respect of the Defined Contribution Scheme for Directors can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 50.
There were no outstanding contributions at the year end.
Auditors remuneration 2009 2008 m m External audit services 0.2 0.3 Other services 0.5 0.5 Tax services 0.4 0.1 Corporate finance services 0.4 2.2 A description of other services is included in Note 5 on page 69 to the Group financial statements.
Particulars of principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 103, which forms part of these financial statements.
During the year, the Company recognised an impairment charge of nil 2008: 1,749.9m against the carrying value of its investments in subsidiary companies.
The impairment in 2008 reflected the decrease in value of assets in the underlying subsidiaries following the downturn in the housing market in the UK and US.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
