Directors Report Directors Report Financial 61 Business Review Governance Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year to 31 December 2009 1.
Significant accounting policies is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work Basis of preparation in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern losses, namely that proportion sold outside the Group.
basis and on a historical cost basis except as otherwise stated below.
The Group completed the renegotiation of its debt on 7 April 2009 with its banks and private Where a jointly controlled operation is undertaken the related assets and liabilities placement holders regarding a revised covenant and financing package the Override are consolidated on a proportional consolidation basis.
This has resulted in the alignment of the maturity dates of all its debt to Segmental reporting 3 July 2012: a reduction in the revolving credit facility and amendments to the margin The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which requires information to and coupon rates on borrowings.
On 1 June 2009 the Group successfully completed be presented consistently to how the business is reviewed internally.
However this has an equity placing and open offer to raise 510.1 million, net of issue costs.
The minimal impact to how the segmental data is presented.
The Group is divided into four transaction was executed such that it created additional distributable reserves of operating divisions for management reporting and control: 488.8 million.
The proceeds of the equity raise have been used to pay down debt and cancel associated facilities, thereby avoiding additional finance charges.
Housing United Kingdom: Housing North America: The Group has met all its interest and other payment obligations on time, and after Housing Spain and Gibraltar: and reviewing cash flow forecasts for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of Corporate signing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors are satisfied that, whilst the economic and market conditions continue to be challenging and not without risk, the On 9 September 2008, Taylor Wimpey plc disposed of Taylor Woodrow Construction refinancing package as well as the equity raised, is sufficiently robust as to adequacy TWC the results of which have been presented as discontinued.
The business was of both facility and covenant headroom to enable the Group to operate within its terms sold for 74.0 million in cash resulting in a profit on disposal of 55.6 million.
On for at least the next 12 months.
disposal, the continuing Group repaid 89.5 million of intercompany balances owing to TWC.
The cash costs of disposal were 3.4 million, and 4.2 million of cash was The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, disposed of with the business.
During 2008, the Group also disposed of a mining except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
operation in Ghana for 11 million in cash.
Basis of accounting On 21 April 2009, the Group disposed of its remaining construction operations The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with in Ghana to existing local management for 1 in cash, giving rise to a profit on sale applicable International Accounting Standards IAS, International Financial Reporting of 0.2 million.
The results of the Ghana operations have been presented within Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee continuing operations within the Corporate business segment.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use in the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS relevant to the Revenue Groups operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2009.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Basis of consolidation Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to a Private housing development properties and land sales 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue in respect of the sale from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently of residential properties is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls receivable on legal completion.
b Cash incentives On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase price offered to measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction to revenue.
acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised c Contracting work as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of being interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of which recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they constituted a major line of business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
d Interest receivable Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
Joint ventures Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint control via either voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent www.
com 62 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly-controlled entity, the carrying value of any attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs was retained at of the Directors, are material and unusual in nature or of such significance that they the previous UK GAAP amounts, and was subjected to impairment testing at that date.
require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Foreign currencies Other intangible assets The individual statements of each Group company are presented in the currency Brands of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
Their Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rates values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is based on of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, valuations of discounted cash flows.
Brands are stated at cost, less accumulated monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies other than amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
the functional currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet Software development costs date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value software controlled by the Group, and that generate economic benefits beyond one was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs loss for the period.
recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are from the time of implementation, and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and and any accumulated impairment losses.
expense items are translated at an appropriate average rate for the year.
Exchange Property, plant and equipment differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost less the period in which the operation is disposed of.
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Freehold land Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are is not depreciated.
Buildings are depreciated over 50 years.
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is charged so as The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on to write off the cost or valuation of assets over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as assets and liabilities denominated is charged, where material, on buildings over the expected useful life of the asset.
in the functional currency of the company in which they arose.
Other assets are depreciated using the straight-line method, on the following bases: The Group enters into forward contracts in order to hedge its exposure to certain Plant, fixtures and equipment 2025%: and computer equipment 33%.
foreign exchange transaction risks relating to the functional currency in accordance with Group policy.
It also uses foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps to The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the hedge its net investment exposure to certain overseas subsidiaries see below for details difference between the sale proceeds, less any selling expenses, and the carrying of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Operating leases Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill The Group as lessee At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable and costs paid have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount and payable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Goodwill which the asset belongs.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
subsidiary, joint venture, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units.
the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
If the The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Cash-generating units amount, impairment losses are allocated first to the intangible assets in the cashto which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more generating unit.
frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 63 Business Review Governance Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies continued The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
If the full impairment of intangible assets is not sufficient to reduce the carrying value of the cash-generating unit to its recoverable amount, tangible fixed assets must then be Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated reviewed for impairment.
If the recoverable amount of tangible fixed assets exceeds and effective as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised their carrying value, no further impairment is required.
An impairment loss is recognised directly in reserves and the ineffective portion, if any, is recognised immediately as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in the income statement.
in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value, the hedged item Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or losses from re-measuring but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign currency component of its carrying would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset amount, are also recognised in the income statement.
or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Financial instruments terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in reserves is retained when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
in reserves until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer Trade receivables and other receivables expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in reserves is transferred Trade receivables on normal terms excluding derivative financial instruments do not to the income statement for the period.
carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate Following the refinancing of the Groups debt, restrictions in the refinancing agreement allowances for estimated unrecoverable amounts.
Trade receivables on extended have resulted in the Group being limited in its ability to undertake new hedging positions.
terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by Customer deposits applying the effective interest rate.
Derivative financial instruments are measured Customer deposits are recorded as a liability within other payables on receipt and at fair value.
released to the income statement as revenue upon legal completion.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Provisions Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value received, net of direct issue costs.
where the effect is material.
Borrowings Inventories Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, Inventories are initially stated at cost or at the fair value at acquisition date when net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement acquired as part of a business combination and then held at the lower of this initial or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the amount and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the they arise.
estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Land is recognised in inventory when the Trade payables significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Trade payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are Non-refundable land option payments are initially recognised in inventory.
They are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
reviewed regularly and written off to the income statement when it is not probable that The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and they will be exercised.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Taxation Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The tax charge represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge transactions denominated in Current tax foreign currencies.
The Group also uses foreign currency borrowings and currency The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs swaps to hedge its net investment exposure to movements in exchange rates on from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of translation of certain individual financial statements denominated in foreign currencies income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes other than Sterling which is the functional currency of the parent Company.
Interest items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is rate derivatives are used to manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
The calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
com 64 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements Deferred tax Estimation of costs to complete Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on the proportion the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the of completions for the period, internal site valuations are carried out for each corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted development at regular intervals throughout the year.
The valuations will include an for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally estimation of the costs to complete and remaining revenues which may differ from recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised the actual costs incurred and revenues received on completion.
to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Carrying value of land and work in progress recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial In order to assess the appropriateness of the carrying value of land and work in recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in progress, the Group is required to make estimations of sales prices, costs and a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
margins expected on sites in order to determine whether any write downs are required to ensure inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Given the Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary differences arising deterioration in market conditions experienced during the year, the Group has on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group undertaken a detailed review on a site-by-site basis of the net realisable value of its is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the land and work in progress.
As a result, the Group has written down the value of its temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
land and work in progress in the UK, US, and Spain by 527.0m 2008: 1,012.8, Deferred taxation is measured on a non-discounted basis using the tax rates and laws as shown in Note 5. that have then been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the The determination of whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired deferred tax liability is settled.
requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves significant judgement and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will including an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cashbe available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated generating unit, the future growth rate of revenue and costs, and a suitable discount at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or rate.
The estimates of future cash flows used in the 2008 impairment test performed the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, as at 31 December 2008 reflected the current weak trading conditions in the Groups except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case major markets, and as a result, the Group has fully wrote down the value of its the deferred tax is also dealt with in reserves.
goodwill and other intangible assets as described in Note 11 and 12.
Impairment of goodwill may not be reversed.
If the current weak trading conditions reverse, the Share-based payments impairment provision relating to other intangible assets may reverse in part or in whole.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of Pensions equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2005.
The value of plan assets and liabilities is determined based on various long term actuarial assumptions, including future rates of inflation, salary growth, yields, returns The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain on investments and mortality rates.
Changes in these assumptions over time and employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the differences to the actual outcome will be reflected in the Groups statement of date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting comprehensive income.
Note 22 details the main assumptions in accounting for period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest after adjusting the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
for the effect of non-market vesting conditions.
Tax and deferred tax A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at Aspects of tax accounting require management judgement and interpretation of tax the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash-settled sharelegislation across many jurisdictions, in some cases relating to items which may not be based payments.
resolved with the relevant tax authority for many years.
Employee benefits In determining the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets, management is required The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS 19 Employee to assess the timing of the utilisation of provisions for tax purposes and the extent to benefits.
In respect of defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted which sufficient taxable profit will be available to enable the asset to be recovered.
present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs Going concern are spread systematically over the lives of employees: and financing costs are The Group completed the renegotiation of its debt with its banks and private recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised placement holders regarding a revised covenant and refinancing package on 7 April immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
This resulted in the alignment of all the debt maturity dates to 3 July 2012: a reduction in the revolving credit facility and amendments to margin and coupon rates.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they To date the Group has been in compliance with these covenants and based on Board fall due.
approved budgets the Group will be in compliance for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is also discussed further within the Directors Report page 31.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
