Directors Report Directors Report Financial 65 Business Review Governance Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet Adoption of new and revised standards and interpretations effective and have not been adopted early by the Group Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
IAS 39 Amendment Eligible hedged items effective from 1 July 2009.
The The main changes from the previous standard requires the Group to: amendment to the standard was endorsed by the European Union on 15 September Present all non-owner changes in equity in one statement of comprehensive 2009.
The amendment requires that inflation may only be hedged if changes in income effectively combining the current income statement and statement of inflation are a contractually specified portion of cash flows of a recognised financial changes in recognised income and expenses or in two statements a separate instrument.
The amendment also permits an entity to designate purchased options as income statement and a statement of comprehensive income.
Components of a hedging instrument in a hedge of a financial or non-financial item.
This amendment is comprehensive income must be presented separately from the statement of not expected to have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
changes in equity: IFRS 1 revised First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Present a statement of financial position balance sheet as at the beginning of effective from 1 July 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject to the earliest comparative period when the entity applies an accounting policy endorsement by the European Union.
The objective of the revised version of IFRS 1 retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement: is to improve the structure of the Standard no new or revised technical material has Disclose income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income: been introduced.
This amendment is not expected to have any impact on the Groups Disclose reclassification adjustments relating to components of other financial statements.
comprehensive income: and Present a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement.
IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 July 2009.
The revisions include This amendment has resulted in additional disclosure being presented in these a greater emphasis on the use of fair value, focusing on changes in control as a financial statements.
significant economic event and focusing on what is given to the vendor as IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009.
This amendment has not had any immediate impact on the Groups requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, financial statements.
construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2010.
Relevant for companies that immediately expensing borrowing costs is removed.
This amendment has no impact have puttable financial instruments or instruments, or components of instruments, that on the Groups financial statements due to the exemption available within IAS 23, impose an obligation on the entity to deliver to another party a pro-rata share of net as the Group produces large quantities of similar houses on a repetitive basis.
This amendment is not expected to have any impact on the IFRS 2 Amendment Vesting conditions and cancellations effective from 1 January Groups financial statements.
The amendments change the definitions of vesting conditions and introduce IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners.
IFRIC 17 requires that the concept of a non-vesting condition.
Vesting conditions will now be restricted to distributions of non-cash assets to owners should be recognised and measured at the service and performance conditions only.
A performance condition only meets the fair value of the non-cash assets when the dividend is appropriately authorised, and that definition of a vesting condition where it has an implicit service requirement.
This the difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the dividend amendment has had no impact on the Groups financial statements.
payable should be recognised in profit or loss on settlement of the dividend payable.
This IFRS 8 Operating segments effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 amends the amendment is not expected to have any impact on the Groups financial statements.
current segmental reporting requirements of IAS 14 and requires management IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers.
IFRIC 18 clarifies the requirements of approach to be adopted so that segment information is presented on the same basis IFRSs for agreements where an entity receives assets or cash to provide a customer as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This standard will apply from the annual with ongoing access to goods or supplies.
This is not expected to have any impact period commencing 1 January 2009.
However this standard has not resulted in on the Groups financial statements.
significant changes to reportable segments Note 4.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments effective 1 July 2010.
IFRIC 15 Arrangements for the Construction of Real Estate.
IFRIC 15 sets out IFRIC 19 clarifies that equity instruments are part of the consideration paid to extinguish guidance for whether the accounting for the construction of real estate should fall a financial liability and should be measured at their fair value.
This amendment is not within IAS 18 Revenue, where a developer sells completed units or, IAS 11 expected to have any significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
Construction Contracts, where a developer has been commissioned for a construction by a buyer.
This interpretation has not had any effect on the Groups financial 2.
General information statements as the Group already complies with this IFRIC.
Taylor Wimpey plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation.
IFRIC 16 clarifies the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 113. accounting treatment of hedges taken out to hedge foreign exchange differences The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 4 arising from differences between a Group and its subsidiarys presentational and in the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 10. currencies and hedges of differences between functional currencies.
This is not These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the expected to have any effect on the Groups financial statements as the Group already currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign complies with this IFRIC.
operations are included in accordance with the policy set out on pages 62 to 63. www.
