Directors Report Directors Report Financial 97 Business Review Governance Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements for the year to 31 December 2009 1.
Significant accounting policies Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The following accounting policies have been used consistently, unless otherwise stated, in dealing with items which are considered material.
Overseas currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in Sterling at actual Basis of preparation rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in The Company financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at The ability of the Taylor Wimpey plc Group the Group to continue as a going the year end.
concern is reliant upon the continued availability of external debt financing.
The Group renegotiated and signed its new financing agreements in April 2009.
The Group has Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of continued to meet all interest and other payment obligations on time from debt the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
resources available to it, and after reviewing cash flow forecasts for a period of not less Unrealised exchange differences on intercompany long term loans and foreign than 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements, the Directors are currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Companys investment in satisfied that, whilst the economic and market conditions continue to be challenging overseas investments, are taken to translation reserve.
and not without risk, the refinancing package is sufficiently robust as to adequacy of Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting both facility and covenant headroom to enable the Group to operate within its terms The Company uses foreign currency borrowings and currency swaps to hedge its for at least the next 12 months.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of investment in overseas Kingdom accounting standards and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force operations are recognised directly in reserves and the ineffective portion, if any, is under the historical cost convention.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
The hedged items are adjusted Act 2006 the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
for changes in exchange rates, with gains or losses from remeasuring the carrying amount being recognised directly in reserves.
Under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 1, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that its consolidated Following the refinancing of the Groups debt, restrictions in the refinancing financial statements, which include the Company, are publicly available.
agreement have resulted in the Company being limited in its ability to undertake new hedging positions.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
Share-based payments The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption contained within FRS 29 The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to certain Financial Instrument Disclosures and has not presented any disclosures required by employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the that standard, as disclosures that comply with FRS 29 are included within the Taylor date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, Wimpey plc consolidated financial statements in Note 21 on pages 78 to 83. based on the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value determined at The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
each balance sheet date for cash-settled share-based payments.
The cost of equityInvestments in Group undertakings settled share-based payments granted to employees of subsidiary companies are Investments are included in the balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
borne by the employing company.
The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in Provisions circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable.
Provisions are recognised at the Directors best estimate when the Company has a If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Company will recoverable amount of the investment.
If the recoverable amount is less than the value have to settle the obligation.
of the investment, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and Own shares loss account: if the impairment is not considered to be a permanent diminution in value, The cost of the Companys investment in its own shares, which comprise shares it may reverse in a future period to the extent it is no longer considered necessary.
held in treasury by the Company and shares held by employee benefit trusts for the purpose of funding certain of the Companys share option plans, is shown as a Deferred taxation reduction in shareholders funds.
Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, Dividends paid at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Dividends are charged to the Companys profit and loss reserve in the period of Timing differences arise from the inclusion of income and expenditure in taxation payment in respect of an interim dividend, and in the period in which shareholders computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the approval is obtained in respect of the Companys final dividend.
