Directors Report Directors Report Financial 61 Business Review Governance Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year to 31 December 2009 1.
Significant accounting policies is required for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Joint ventures are consolidated under the equity accounting method.
On transfer of land and or work Basis of preparation in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern losses, namely that proportion sold outside the Group.
basis and on a historical cost basis except as otherwise stated below.
The Group completed the renegotiation of its debt on 7 April 2009 with its banks and private Where a jointly controlled operation is undertaken the related assets and liabilities placement holders regarding a revised covenant and financing package the Override are consolidated on a proportional consolidation basis.
This has resulted in the alignment of the maturity dates of all its debt to Segmental reporting 3 July 2012: a reduction in the revolving credit facility and amendments to the margin The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which requires information to and coupon rates on borrowings.
On 1 June 2009 the Group successfully completed be presented consistently to how the business is reviewed internally.
However this has an equity placing and open offer to raise 510.1 million, net of issue costs.
The minimal impact to how the segmental data is presented.
The Group is divided into four transaction was executed such that it created additional distributable reserves of operating divisions for management reporting and control: 488.8 million.
The proceeds of the equity raise have been used to pay down debt and cancel associated facilities, thereby avoiding additional finance charges.
Housing United Kingdom: Housing North America: The Group has met all its interest and other payment obligations on time, and after Housing Spain and Gibraltar: and reviewing cash flow forecasts for a period of not less than 12 months from the date of Corporate signing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors are satisfied that, whilst the economic and market conditions continue to be challenging and not without risk, the On 9 September 2008, Taylor Wimpey plc disposed of Taylor Woodrow Construction refinancing package as well as the equity raised, is sufficiently robust as to adequacy TWC the results of which have been presented as discontinued.
The business was of both facility and covenant headroom to enable the Group to operate within its terms sold for 74.0 million in cash resulting in a profit on disposal of 55.6 million.
On for at least the next 12 months.
disposal, the continuing Group repaid 89.5 million of intercompany balances owing to TWC.
The cash costs of disposal were 3.4 million, and 4.2 million of cash was The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, disposed of with the business.
During 2008, the Group also disposed of a mining except as otherwise stated, are set out below.
operation in Ghana for 11 million in cash.
Basis of accounting On 21 April 2009, the Group disposed of its remaining construction operations The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with in Ghana to existing local management for 1 in cash, giving rise to a profit on sale applicable International Accounting Standards IAS, International Financial Reporting of 0.2 million.
The results of the Ghana operations have been presented within Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee continuing operations within the Corporate business segment.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use in the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS relevant to the Revenue Groups operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on 1 January 2009.
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Basis of consolidation Revenue and profit are recognised as follows: The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to a Private housing development properties and land sales 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser.
Revenue in respect of the sale from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently of residential properties is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls receivable on legal completion.
b Cash incentives On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase price offered to measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction to revenue.
acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised c Contracting work as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at statement in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of being interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of which recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they constituted a major line of business, it is disclosed as a discontinued operation.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
d Interest receivable Interest income on bank deposits is recognised on an accruals basis.
Joint ventures Undertakings are deemed to be a joint venture when the Group has joint control via either voting rights or a formal agreement which includes that unanimous consent www.
