qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 105 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 105 Business Review Governance Statements Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting This Notice of Meeting is important and A up to a nominal amount of A to the allotment of equity securities requires your immediate attention.
If you in connection with an offer of equity 10,657,107 such amount to be are in any doubt as to the action you should securities but in the case of the reduced by the nominal amount take, you are recommended to seek your authority granted under paragraph of any equity securities as dened own financial advice immediately from a B of resolution 7, by way of a in the Companies Act 2006 allotted stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, rights issue only : under paragraph B below in excess accountant, or other independent financial of 10,657,107 and i to ordinary shareholders in adviser authorised under the Financial proportion as nearly as may B comprising equity securities up to Services and Markets Act 2000. be practicable to their existing a nominal amount of 21,314,215 If you have sold or otherwise transferred holdings: and such amount to be reduced by any all of your shares in Taylor Wimpey plc shares and rights to subscribe for ii to holders of other equity securities, the Company, please pass this document or convert any security into shares as required by the rights of those together with the accompanying documents allotted under paragraph A above securities or, as the Board to the purchaser or transferee, or to the in connection with an offer by way otherwise considers necessary, person who arranged the sale or transfer of a rights issue: so they can pass these documents to the and so that the Board may impose i to ordinary shareholders in person who now holds the shares.
If you any limits or restrictions and make proportion as nearly as may have sold or transferred part only of your any arrangements which it be practicable to their existing holding of ordinary shares in the Company, considers necessary or appropriate holdings: and please consult the person who arranged to deal with treasury shares, the sale or transfer.
fractional entitlements, record ii to holders of other equity dates, legal, regulatory or practical securities as required by the Notice is hereby given of the seventy fifth problems in, or under the laws rights of those securities or Annual General Meeting of the Company of, any territory or any other as the Board otherwise to be held on 29 April 2010 at 11.00 am matter: and at The British Medical Association, considers necessary, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, B in the case of the authority granted and so that the Board may impose WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: under paragraph A of resolution 7 any limits or restrictions and make and or in the case of any transfer ORDINARY BUSINESS any arrangements which it considers of treasury shares which is treated Ordinary Resolutions: necessary or appropriate to deal as an allotment of equity securities 1 To receive the Reports of the Directors with treasury shares, fractional under section 560 3 of the and the Auditors and the Accounts for entitlements, record dates, legal, Companies Act 2006, to the the year ended 31 December 2009. regulatory or practical problems allotment otherwise than under in, or under the laws of, any territory 2 To elect as a Director, Sheryl Palmer paragraph A above of equity or any other matter, who was appointed as a Director of securities up to a nominal amount the Company by the Board since of 1,598,566, such authorities to apply until the end the last Annual General Meeting.
of next years Annual General Meeting such power to apply until the or, if earlier, until the close of business 3 To elect as a Director, Rob Rowley end of next years Annual General on 28 July 2011 but, in each case, who was appointed as a Director Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of so that the Company may make offers of the Company by the Board since business on 28 July 2011, but during and enter into agreements during the the last Annual General Meeting.
this period the Company may make relevant period which would, or might, offers, and enter into agreements, 4 To re-elect as a Director, Katherine require shares to be allotted or rights to which would, or might, require equity Innes Ker who retires by rotation as a subscribe for or convert securities into securities to be allotted after the power Director of the Company in accordance shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot equity with the Articles of Association.
ends and the Board may allot shares or securities under any such offer or grant rights to subscribe for or convert 5 To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern agreement as if the power had securities into shares under any such who retires by rotation as a Director of not ended.
offer or agreement as if the authority the Company in accordance with the 9 That the Company be authorised had not ended.
to make market purchases within Special Resolutions: 6 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 8 That, if resolution 7 is passed, the of the Company, to hold ofce until the Companies Act 2006 of the ordinary Board be given the power to allot conclusion of the next general meeting shares of one penny each of at which accounts are laid before the equity securities as dened in the the Company ordinary shares, Company, and authorise the Audit Companies Act 2006 for cash under provided that: Committee to x their remuneration the authority given by that resolution A the maximum number of ordinary on behalf of the Board.
and or where the allotment is treated shares hereby authorised to be as an allotment of equity securities 7 That the Board be authorised to allot purchased shall be 319,713,228: under section 560 3 of the Companies shares in the Company and to grant B the minimum price which may be Act 2006, free of the restriction in rights to subscribe for or convert any paid for ordinary shares is one section 561 1 of the Companies security into shares in the Company: penny per ordinary share: Act 2006, such power to be limited: www.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 106 106 Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting continued C the maximum price exclusive of organisation and political expenditure electronically either via the internet at expenses which may be paid for have the meanings given by sections www.
com or, if you are an ordinary share is an amount 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006. a CREST member, through the CREST equal to 105% of the average of system by completing and transmitting a Special Resolutions: the middle market quotations for CREST proxy instruction as described in 12 That a general meeting other than an ordinary share as derived from the notes below this Notice of Meeting.
an Annual General Meeting of the the London Stock Exchange Daily Company may continue to be called Recommendation Ofcial List for the five business on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Your Directors are of the opinion that the days immediately preceding the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual date on which such ordinary share 13 That: General Meeting are in the best interests is purchased: A the Articles of Association of the of shareholders as a whole and D the authority hereby conferred Company be amended by deleting recommend you to vote in favour of them.
shall expire at the earlier of the all the provisions of the Companys Each Director will be doing so in respect conclusion of the Annual General Memorandum of Association of his or her own beneficial shareholding.
Meeting of the Company in 2011 which, by virtue of section 28 of Inspection of documents and 28 October 2011 unless such the Companies Act 2006, are The following documents will be available authority is renewed prior to such to be treated as provisions of the for inspection at the Companys registered time: and Companys Articles of Association: ofce, 80 New Bond Street, London WS1 and E the Company may make contracts 1SB, during normal business hours from to purchase ordinary shares under B the Articles of Association produced the date of this Notice of Meeting until the the authority hereby conferred prior to the meeting and initialled by the date of the Annual General Meeting and to the expiry of such authority which chairman of the meeting for the at The British Medical Association, BMA will or may be executed wholly or purpose of identication be House, Tavistock Square, London WC1H partly after the expiry of such adopted as the Articles of 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual authority, and may purchase Association of the Company in General Meeting until it ends: ordinary shares in pursuance of any substitution for, and to the exclusion copies of the Executive Directors such contracts as if the authority of, the existing Articles of Association.
service contracts: conferred by this Resolution had Action to be taken not expired.
copies of letters of appointment of If you wish to attend and vote at the Non Executive Directors: and SPECIAL BUSINESS the Annual General Meeting in person, Ordinary Resolutions: please bring with you the attendance card a copy of the proposed new Articles 10 To approve the Directors accompanying this document and retain of Association of the Company, and Remuneration Report for the year it until the end of the Meeting.
It will a copy of the existing Memorandum ended 31 December 2009. authenticate your right to attend, speak and Articles of Association marked and vote, and will help us to register your to show the changes being proposed 11 That in accordance with Sections 366 attendance without delay.
Registration will in Resolution 13. and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, be available from 9.30 am on the day of the Company and all companies which A copy of the full Annual Report and the Meeting.
For the safety and comfort are its subsidiaries when this Financial Statements for the year ended of those attending the Meeting, large bags, Resolution is passed are authorised to: 31 December 2009, including the cameras, recording equipment and similar Directors Remuneration Report referred A make political donations to political items will not be allowed into the building.
to in Resolution 10, is also available on parties and or independent election The Meeting will commence at 11.00 am our Web site www.
com candidates not exceeding and light refreshments will be available 250,000 in aggregate: from 10.00 am and also after the By Order of the Board conclusion of the Meeting.
There is B make political donations to political wheelchair access to the venue for organisations other than political shareholders who require it or those with parties not exceeding 250,000 reduced mobility.
However, attendees are in aggregate: and strongly advised to bring their own carers C incur political expenditure not to assist with their general mobility around James Jordan exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, the venue.
An induction loop system Group Company Secretary operates in the meeting room.
Directions during the period beginning with the and General Counsel to the venue can be found on the back date of passing this Resolution and of your attendance card.
Taylor Wimpey plc ending at the conclusion of the Annual Registered Ofce: General Meeting of the Company If you would like to vote on the 80 New Bond Street in 2011.
Resolutions but cannot come to the London Annual General Meeting, please ll in the For the purposes of this Resolution W1S 1SB proxy form sent to you with this Notice the terms political donations, and return it to our registrars as soon as Registered in England and Wales political parties, independent possible.
They must receive it by no later under number 296805 election candidates, political than 11.00 am on 27 April 2010.
If you 2 March 2010 prefer, you can submit your proxy Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p105-112 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 107 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 107 Business Review Governance Statements Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting Notes www.
com or, if you service to be valid, the appropriate 1.
To be entitled to attend and vote are a member of CREST, via the CREST message a CREST Proxy at the Annual General Meeting and service provided by Euroclear UK Instruction must be properly for the purpose of the determination and Ireland Limited at the electronic authenticated in accordance with by the Company of the votes which address provided in note 9, in each Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds shareholders may cast, shareholders case no later than 11.00 am on 27 specications, and must contain must be registered in the Register of April 2010.
All forms of proxy received the information required for such Members of the Company at 6.00 pm after this time will be void.
A form of instruction, as described in the on 27 April 2010 or, in the event of any proxy sent electronically at any time CREST Manual available via adjournment, on the date which is two that is found to contain any virus will www.
The days before the time of the adjourned not be accepted.
message, regardless of whether it meeting.
Shareholders then on the constitutes the appointment of a proxy 5.
The return of a completed proxy form, Register of Members shall be entitled or is an amendment to the instruction other such instrument or any CREST to attend and vote at the Annual given to a previously appointed proxy Proxy Instruction as further described General Meeting in respect of the must, in order to be valid, be transmitted in notes 8 and 9 below will not prevent number of shares registered in their so as to be received by the issuers a shareholder attending the Annual name at that time.
Changes to entries agent ID RA10 by 11.00 am on General Meeting and voting in person on the relevant Register of Members 27 April 2010.
For this purpose, the if he she wishes to do so.
after that deadline shall be disregarded time of receipt will be taken to be the in determining the rights of any person 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent time as determined by the time stamp to attend and vote at the Annual who is a person nominated under applied to the message by the CREST General Meeting.
section 146 of the Companies Act Application Host from which the 2006 to enjoy information rights a issuers agent is able to retrieve the 2.
As at 2 March 2010 being the last Nominated Person may, under an message by enquiry to CREST in the business day prior to the publication agreement between him her and the manner prescribed by CREST.
After of this Notice the Companys issued shareholder by whom he she was this time any change of instructions share capital consisted of nominated, have a right to be to proxies appointed through CREST 3,197,132,281 ordinary shares, appointed or to have someone else should be communicated to the carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the appointed as a proxy for the Annual appointee through other means.
total voting rights in the Company as at General Meeting.
CREST members and, where Person has no such proxy applicable, their CREST sponsors, 3.
If you are a shareholder of the appointment right or does not wish or voting service providers should note Company at the time and date set to exercise it, he she may, under any that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited out in note 1 above, you are entitled such agreement, have a right to give does not make available special to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any instructions to the shareholder as procedures in CREST for any particular of your rights to attend and to speak to the exercise of voting rights.
Normal system timings and and vote on your behalf at the meeting.
Such persons should direct any limitations will, therefore, apply in Shareholders may appoint more than communications and enquiries to relation to the input of CREST Proxy one proxy in relation to the Annual the registered holder of the shares Instructions.
It is the responsibility of General Meeting provided that each by whom they were nominated and the CREST member concerned to take proxy is appointed to exercise the not to the Company or its registrar.
or, if the CREST member is a CREST rights attached to a different share 7.
The statement of the rights of personal member, or sponsored or shares held by that shareholder.
shareholders in relation to the member, or has appointed a voting Aproxy need not be a shareholder appointment of proxies in notes 3 and service provider, to procure that his of the Company but must attend the 4 above does not apply to Nominated CREST sponsor or voting service Annual General Meeting to represent Persons.
The rights described in these provider s take s such action as you.
A proxy form which may be used notes can only be exercised by shall be necessary to ensure that a to make such appointment and give shareholders of the Company.
message is transmitted by means of proxy instructions accompanies this the CREST system by any particular Notice.
CREST members who wish to appoint time.
In this connection, CREST form and believe that you should have a proxy or proxies through the CREST members and, where applicable, their one, or if you require additional forms, electronic proxy appointment service CREST sponsors or voting system please contact Capita Registrars on may do so by using the procedures providers are referred, in particular, to 0871 664 0391. described in the CREST Manual.
those sections of the CREST Manual CREST Personal Members or other 4.
To be valid any proxy form or other concerning practical limitations of the CREST sponsored members, and instrument appointing a proxy must be CREST system and timings.
those CREST members who have received by post to Freepost RSBHappointed a service provider s, 11.
The Company may treat as invalid UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 34 Beckenham should refer to their CREST sponsor a CREST Proxy Instruction in the Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or voting service provider s, who will circumstances set out in Regulation or during normal business hours only be able to take the appropriate action 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities by hand at Capita Registrars, 34 on their behalf.
Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or, if you prefer, electronically 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or 12.
Any corporation which is a member via the internet at instruction made using the CREST can appoint one or more corporate www.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 108 108 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued representatives who may exercise on 17.
Voting on all resolutions at this 1 Sheryl Palmer appointed by the Board its behalf all of its powers as a member years Annual General Meeting will since the last Annual General Meeting : provided that they do not do so in be conducted by way of a poll, rather 2 Rob Rowley appointed by the Board relation to the same shares.
The Board since the last Annual General Meeting : believes that a poll is more 13.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act representative of shareholders voting 3 Katherine Innes Ker retires by rotation 2006 members meeting the threshold intentions because it gives as many in accordance with the Articles of requirements set out in that section shareholders as possible the Association and seeks re-election : and have the right to require the Company opportunity to have their votes to publish on a Web site a statement 4 Pete Redfern retires by rotation in counted whether their votes are setting out any matter relating to: accordance with the Articles of tendered by proxy in advance of, i the audit of the Companys accounts Association and seeks re-election.
or in person at, the Annual General including the auditors report and the Meeting.
The results of the poll will Details of the Directors service conduct of the audit that are to be laid be announced via a Regulatory contracts, remuneration and interests in before the Annual General Meeting: or News Service and made available the Companys shares and other securities ii any circumstance connected with at www.
com as are given in the Directors Remuneration an auditor of the Company ceasing to soon as practicable after the Report to shareholders on pages 41 to 50 hold ofce since the previous meeting at Annual General Meeting.
of the Report and Accounts.
Biographical which annual accounts and reports were information concerning each Director laid in accordance with section 437 of APPENDIX 1: EXPLANATORY NOTES is on pages 32 and 33 of the Report the Companies Act 2006.
The Company TO THE RESOLUTIONS and Accounts.
may not require the shareholders ORDINARY BUSINESS requesting any such Web site publication The following information is given in ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS to pay its expenses in complying with support of the Boards proposal for the Resolution 1: To receive the annual reports sections 527 or 528 of the Companies election or re-election as appropriate and accounts Act 2006.
Where the Company is of these Directors: English company law requires the required to place a statement on a Web Sheryl Palmer Directors to lay the annual accounts site under section 527 of the Companies Sheryl was appointed a Director on of the Company for the year ended Act 2006, it must forward the statement 5 August 2009.
Sheryl is President 31 December 2009 and the reports to the Companys auditor not later than and Chief Executive officer of our North of the Directors and Auditors before the time when it makes the statement American Housing business, Taylor a general meeting of the Company.
available on the Web site.
The business Morrison, a position she has held since which may be dealt with at the Annual As a result of the difficult trading year shortly after the merger.
She has also General Meeting includes any statement outlined in the Annual Report and been responsible for our Canadian that the Company has been required Accounts, the Directors do not Housing business, Monarch, since August under section 527 of the Companies recommend the payment of any final 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, she held Act 2006 to publish on a Web site.
dividend in respect of the year ended a number of senior positions within the 31 December 2009.
Any member attending the meeting which give her considerable experience has the right to ask questions.
The Resolutions 2 to 5: Election of Directors of the industry and will bring greater depth Company must cause to be answered The Companys Articles of Association to the Boards understanding of this any such question relating to the provide that: important area of the Groups operations.
business being dealt with at the any Director appointed since the meeting but no such answer need be Rob Rowley Independent previous Annual General Meeting given if i to do so would interfere Non Executive Director shall retire from ofce and may seek unduly with the preparation for the Rob was appointed a Director on election: and meeting or involve the disclosure of 1 January 2010.
He chairs the Audit condential information, ii the answer each year any Director who held ofce Committee and is a member of the has already been given on a Web site at the time of the two preceding Remuneration and Nomination in the form of an answer to a question, Annual General Meetings and did not Committees.
He was previously a director or iii it is undesirable in the interests of retire at either of them is required to of Reuters Plc, deputy chairman of Cable the Company or the good order of the retire from ofce by rotation and may and Wireless plc and a non executive meeting that the question be answered.
director of Prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
A copy of this Notice, and other In addition, the Combined Code on director of Liberty International plc and information required by s311A of the Corporate Governance requires each moneysupermarket.
com where he also Companies Act 2006, can be found Director to seek re-appointment at least chairs their respective Audit Committees.
The outcome of voting on all The following Directors will therefore retire Non Executive Director Resolutions will be announced at the from ofce, and all being eligible, will offer Katherine was appointed a Director Annual General Meeting and to the themselves for election or re-election in July 2001 She chairs the Corporate market and published on our Web site as appropriate : Responsibility Committee and is a at www.
member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Prior to the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p105-112 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 109 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 109 Business Review Governance Statements merger, she was a Non Executive Director of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS of Bryant Group PLC until its acquisition for their services.
The Board has adopted Resolution 8: Authority to dis-apply by Taylor Wimpey in March 2001 and was a procedure governing the appointment pre-emption rights shortly thereafter invited to join the Taylor of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, The Board wishes to renew the existing Wimpey Board.
She chaired Taylor details of which are given in the Corporate authority from shareholders to allot shares Wimpeys Remuneration Committee from Governance Report.
Details of non-audit or sell any shares held in treasury for cash 29 January 2004 to 2 July 2007, a services performed by Deloitte in 2009 otherwise than to existing shareholders position she relinquished following the are given on page 37 of the Report pro rata to their holdings.
Katherine has considerable and Accounts.
which will be proposed as a special experience as a financial analyst in the resolution and therefore requires a 75% Resolution 7: Authority to allot shares media sector and is a non executive majority of votes to be cast in favour, Your Directors wish to renew the existing director of St. Modwen Properties PLC.
would give the Directors the authority to authority to allot new shares in the She was previously Chairman of Shed allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary Company, which was granted at the Media plc and a non executive director shares which the Company elects to hold Companys General Meeting held on of the Ordnance Survey.
in treasury for cash without first offering 27 May 2009 and is due to expire at the them to existing shareholders Pete Redfern Group Chief Executive conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
in proportion to their existing Pete was appointed a Director and Group Accordingly, Paragraph A of resolution 7 shareholdings.
He currently would give the Directors the authority to has full responsibility for the UK Housing This authority would be, similar to previous allot ordinary shares or grant rights to division.
He is also a member of the years, limited to allotments or sales in subscribe for or convert any securities Corporate Responsibility and Nomination connection with pre-emptive offers and into ordinary shares up to an aggregate Committees.
Pete was a Director and offers to holders of other equity securities nominal amount equal to 10,657,107 Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey if required by the rights of those shares representing 1,065,710,700 ordinary Plc prior to the merger.
He was previously or as the Board otherwise considers shares of 1 pence each.
This amount Finance Director of Rugby Cement and necessary, or otherwise up to an represents approximately one-third of successively Finance Director, Managing aggregate nominal amount of 1,598,566 the issued ordinary share capital of the Director and Chief Executive of George representing 159,856,600 ordinary Company as at 2 March 2010, the latest Wimpeys UK Housing business.
This aggregate nominal amount practicable date prior to publication of represents approximately 5% of the issued this Notice of Meeting.
The Board confirms that each of ordinary share capital of the Company as the Directors proposed for election or In line with guidance issued by the at 2 March 2010, the latest practicable re-election has recently been subject to Association of British Insurers, paragraph date prior to publication of this Notice.
In formal performance evaluation, details B of resolution 7 would give the Directors respect of this aggregate nominal amount, of which are set out in the Corporate authority to allot ordinary shares or grant the Directors confirm their intention to Governance Report, and that each rights to subscribe for or convert any follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption continues to demonstrate commitment securities into ordinary shares in Groups Statement of Principles regarding and to be an effective member of connection with a rights issue in favour of cumulative usage of authorities within the Board.
ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate a rolling three-year period where the nominal amount equal to 21,314,215 Resolution 6: Re-appointment of Deloitte Principles provide that usage in excess representing 2,131,421,520 ordinary LLP Deloitte as auditors of the Company of 7.5% should not take place without shares, as reduced by the nominal and authorisation of the Audit Committee prior consultation with shareholders.
amount of any shares issued under to agree their remuneration on behalf of paragraph A of resolution 7.
This amount The authority will expire at the earlier of the Board before any reduction represents 28 July 2011 and the conclusion of the In accordance with English company law, approximately two-thirds of the issued Annual General Meeting of the Company the Company is required to appoint ordinary share capital of the Company held in 2011. auditors at each general meeting at which as at 2 March 2010, the latest practicable accounts are laid before the shareholders.
Resolution 9: Authority to make market date prior to publication of this Notice It is therefore being proposed that the purchases of shares of Meeting.
auditors are appointed from the Any purchases under this authority would conclusion of the 2010 Annual General be made in one or more tranches and The authorities sought under paragraphs Meeting until the conclusion of the next would be limited in aggregate to 10 per A and B of resolution 7 will expire at the general meeting at which accounts are cent of the ordinary shares in issue at earlier of 28 July 2011 and the conclusion laid before shareholders.
the close of business on 2 March 2010. of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2011.
During 2007, following the merger, a The maximum price to be paid on any competitive tender for future external The Directors have no present intention exercise of the authority would not exceed audit work was carried out and resulted to exercise either of the authorities sought 105% of the average of the middle market in Deloitte being confirmed as external under this resolution.
However, if they quotations for the Companys ordinary auditors to the Company.
The Board do exercise the authorities, the Directors shares for the five business days recommends the re-appointment of intend to follow ABI recommendations immediately preceding the date of the Deloitte as the Companys auditors and concerning their use including as regards purchase.
Shares purchased pursuant to also seeks shareholders authority for the the Directors standing for re-election in these authorities will be held as treasury Audit Committee to determine on behalf certain cases.
shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, and provides www.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 110 110 Shareholder Information Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued the Company with additional exibility in the Resolution 11: Authority to make its renewal.
The shorter notice period of management of its capital base.
The total political donations 14 clear days would not be used as a In order to comply with its obligations number of shares held as treasury shall matter of routine for any general meeting, under the Companies Act 2006 and to not at any one time exceed 10 per cent but only where the exibility is merited by avoid any inadvertent infringement of the of the Companys issued share capital.
the business of a particular meeting Companies Act 2006, the Board wishes Accordingly, any shares bought back and is thought to be to the advantage of to renew its existing authority for a general over the 10% limit will be cancelled.
The renewed level of donation.
Resolution 11 seeks approval will be effective until the The total number of options, conditional to renew the existing authority for the Companys next Annual General Meeting, share awards and warrants to subscribe Company to make political donations and when it is intended that a similar resolution for ordinary shares outstanding as at the incur political expenditure.
The Companies will be proposed.
close of business on 2 March 2010 was Act 2006 requires this authority to be 73,738,167, representing approximately Note that the changes to the Companies divided into three heads with a separate Act 2006 mean that in order to be able 2.3% of the issued ordinary share capital amount specified as permitted for each.
to call a general meeting on less than 21 of the Company as at that date and We have specified an amount not clear days notice, the Company must in approximately 2.6% of the Companys exceeding 250,000 for each head of respect of that meeting make available issued ordinary share capital following the authority.
In accordance with the any exercise in full of this authority to electronic voting to all shareholders.
Companies Act 2006, Resolution 11 make market purchases.
extends approval to all of the Resolution 13: Adoption of New Articles Companys subsidiaries.
of Association The Company has warrants over 57,748,002 Ordinary Shares, representing It is proposed in Resolution 13 to This authority will last until the conclusion adopt new Articles of Association the 0.02% of the Companys ordinary issued of the Annual General Meeting of the New Articles in order to update the share capital as at close of business on Company in 2011, unless renewal is Companys current Articles of Association 2 March 2010.
If the authority given by sought at that meeting.
the Current Articles primarily to take resolution 9 were to be fully used, these The Company and the Group have not account of the coming into force of would represent 1.64% of the Companys the Companies Shareholders Rights made any donations to political parties ordinary issued share capital at that date.
Regulations 2009 the Shareholders since the resolution passed at the This authority will last until the conclusion previous Annual General Meeting and Rights Regulations and the of the Companys Annual General Meeting it is not our policy to do so in the future.
implementation of the last parts in 2011 or, if earlier, 28 October 2011.
Nevertheless, the Companies Act 2006 of the Companies Act 2006. defines political organisations very widely This is a standard resolution, sought by The principal changes introduced in the and, as a result, in certain circumstances, the majority of public listed companies.
New Articles are summarised in Appendix donations made for charitable or similar The Board has no current intention of II below.
Other changes, which are of a purposes could possibly be treated as a utilising this authority but nevertheless minor, technical or clarifying nature and feels it appropriate to seek renewal at the donation to a political organisation.
For also some more minor changes which Annual General Meeting in order to preserve example, a donation to a humanitarian merely reect changes made by the the exibility to manage its capital base.
charity which may also operate as a Companies Act 2006 and the political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, Shareholders Rights Regulations or SPECIAL BUSINESS paid leave to employees fullling public conform the language of the New Articles Ordinary Resolutions duties and payments to industry with that used in the model articles for Resolution 10: Approval of the Directors representative bodies could constitute public companies produced by the Remuneration Report for the year ended a donation to a political organisation Department for Business, Innovation and 31 December 2009 within the current denitions.
Skills have not been noted in Appendix II.
The Directors Remuneration Report for the The New Articles showing all the changes Details of charitable donations appear year ended 31 December 2009 has been to the Current Articles are available for prepared in accordance with Sections 420 on page 53 of the Report and Accounts.
inspection, as noted on page 106 of and 421 of the Companies Act 2006.
Section 439 of said Act requires the Resolution 12: Notice of general meetings Company to give shareholders notice of an APPENDIX II: EXPLANATORY NOTES This Resolution is required to reect the ordinary resolution approving the Directors OF PRINCIPAL CHANGES TO THE implementation in August 2009 of the Remuneration Report.
The Directors COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Shareholders Rights Directive.
The Remuneration Report is on pages 41 The Companys objects regulations implementing this Directive to 50 of the Report and Accounts.
The The provisions regulating the operations have increased the notice period for Board considers that appropriate executive of the Company are currently set out in general meetings of the Company to remuneration plays a vital part in helping to the Companys memorandum and articles 21 days unless shareholders agree to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The Companys a shorter notice period, which cannot The vote on the Remuneration Report memorandum contains, among other be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2009 has advisory status in respect of the things, the objects clause which sets out Annual General Meeting, a resolution was remuneration policy and overall the scope of the activities the Company passed approving the Companys ability remuneration packages and is not is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to call general meetings other than Annual specic to individual levels of remuneration.
General Meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this approval will The Companies Act 2006 signicantly expire at the conclusion of this Annual reduces the constitutional signicance General Meeting, Resolution 12 proposes of a companys memorandum.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p105-112 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 111 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 111 Business Review Governance Statements The Companies Act 2006 provides that a can at any time allot because allotment transfers must be registered as soon as memorandum will record only the names authority continues to be required under practicable.
The power in the Current of subscribers and the number of shares the Companies Act 2006, save in respect Articles to suspend the registration of each subscriber has agreed to take in the of employee share schemes.
transfers is inconsistent with this company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 requirement.
Accordingly, this power Redeemable shares the objects clause and all other provisions has been removed in the New Articles.
Under the Companies Act 1985, if a which are contained in a companys company wished to issue redeemable Vacation of ofce by Directors memorandum, for existing companies shares, it had to include in its articles The Current Articles specify the at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be of association the terms and manner circumstances in which a Director must contained in the companys articles of of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 vacate ofce.
The New Articles update association but the company can remove enables directors to determine such these provisions to treat physical illness these provisions by special resolution.
matters instead, provided they are so in the same manner as mental illness.
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states authorised by the companys articles Voting by proxies on a show of hands that unless a companys articles provide of association.
The New Articles contain The Shareholders Rights Regulations otherwise, a companys objects are such an authorisation.
The Company have amended the Companies Act 2006 unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for has no plans to issue redeemable shares, so that it now provides that each proxy companies to have objects clauses.
For but if it did so the Directors would need appointed by a member has one vote this reason the Company is proposing to shareholders authority to issue new on a show of hands unless the proxy is remove its objects clause together with shares in the usual way.
appointed by more than one member in all other provisions of its memorandum Authority to purchase own shares, which case the proxy has one vote for which, by virtue of the Companies Act consolidate and sub-divide shares, and one vote against if the proxy has been 2006, are treated as forming part of the and reduce share capital instructed by one or more members to Companys articles of association as of Under the Companies Act 1985, a vote for the resolution and by one or more 1 October 2009.
Resolution 13 i confirms company required specic enabling members to vote against the resolution.
the removal of these provisions for the provisions in its articles of association to The New Articles remove provisions in the Company.
As the effect of this Resolution purchase its own shares, to consolidate Current Articles dealing with proxy voting will be to remove the statement currently or sub-divide its shares and to reduce on the basis that these are dealt with in in the Companys memorandum of its share capital or other undistributable the Companies Act 2006 and contain a association regarding limited liability, reserves, as well as shareholder authority provision clarifying how the provision of the New Articles also contain an express to undertake the relevant action.
The the Companies Act 2006 giving a proxy statement regarding the limited liability Current Articles include these enabling a second vote on a show of hands of shareholders.
Under the Companies Act should apply to discretionary authorities.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions 2006, a company will only require Adjournments for lack of quorum Provisions in the Current Articles which shareholder authority to do any of these Under the Companies Act 2006, as replicate provisions contained in the things and it will no longer be necessary amended by the Shareholders Rights Companies Act 2006 are in the main to for articles of association to contain Regulations, general meetings adjourned be removed in the New Articles.
Accordingly the for lack of quorum must be held at least in line with the approach advocated by relevant enabling provisions have been 10 clear days after the original meeting.
the Government that statutory provisions removed in the New Articles.
The New Articles reect this requirement.
should not be duplicated in a Use of seals companys constitution.
Voting record date Under the Companies Act 1985, a Under the Companies Act 2006 as Change of name company required authority in its articles amended by the Shareholders Rights Under the Companies Act 1985, a of association to have an ofcial seal for Regulations the Company must determine company could only change its name by use abroad.
Under the Companies Act the right of members to vote at a general special resolution.
Under the Companies 2006, such authority will no longer be meeting by reference to the register not Act 2006 a company is able to change its required.
Accordingly, the relevant more than 48 hours before the time for the name by other means provided for by its authorisation has been removed holding of the meeting, not taking account articles of association.
To take advantage in the New Articles.
of days which are not working days.
of this provision, the New Articles enable The New Articles provide an alternative The New Articles reect this requirement.
the Directors to pass a resolution to option for execution of documents other change the Companys name.
Under the New Generally the opportunity has been taken No change of name is envisaged or Articles, when the seal is afxed to a to bring clearer language into the New proposed and this power would not document it may be signed by one Articles and in some areas to conform be exercised by the Board without very authorised person in the presence the language of the New Articles with careful consideration and due process of a witness, whereas previously the that used in the model articles for public and only where it is in the best interests requirement was for signature by either a companies produced by the Department of shareholders to do so.
Director and the Secretary or two Directors for Business, Innovation and Skills.
or such other person or persons as the Authorised share capital and unissued shares Directors may approve.
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an Suspension of registration of share transfers authorised share capital and the New The Current Articles permit the Directors Articles reect this.
Directors will still be to suspend the registration of transfers.
limited as to the number of shares they Under the Companies Act 2006 share www.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:15 Page 112 112 Shareholder Information Shareholder Facilities Annual General Meeting The benets of web communication are Low-cost share dealing services 11.00 am on 29 April 2010 at: that it: We have arranged both telephone and on-line share dealing services for The British Medical Association, BMA Enables the Company to reduce its UK resident Taylor Wimpey shareholders House, Tavistock Square, London, printing and postage costs signicantly: to buy or sell up to 25,000 worth of WC1H 9JP.
Enables shareholders to access Taylor Wimpey plc shares.
The services Latest date for receipt of proxy information faster, on the day are operated by Capita Registrars.
To use instructions for the 2010 Annual General documents are published on the the services either visit www.
com Meeting: 11.00 am on 27 April 2010 Companys Web site: and or telephone 44 0 871 664 0446 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: Group Company Secretary and General Reduces the amount of resources lines open 8.00am to 4.30pm Mon-Fri.
Counsel and Registered Ofce consumed, such as paper, and lessens To deal, you will need to provide your James Jordan the impact of printing and mailing surname, postcode, date of birth and 80 New Bond Street activities on the environment.
investor code which can be found London W1S 1SB The Company provides hard copy on your share certicate.
Tel: 44 0 20 7355 8100 documentation to those shareholders Fax: 44 0 20 7355 8197 Taylor Wimpey and CREST who have requested this and is, of course, E-mail: james.
com Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in happy to provide hard copies to any CREST accounts, which do not require Registrar shareholders upon request.
This may make it For any enquiries concerning your quicker and easier for some shareholders Electronic communications shareholding or details of shareholder to settle stock market transactions.
The Company also encourages services, please contact: Shareholders who deal infrequently may, shareholders to elect to receive Capita Registrars however, prefer to continue to hold their notication of the availability of Company Northern House shares in certicated form and this facility documentation by means of an e-mail.
Woodsome Park will remain available for the time being, Shareholders can sign up for this facility Fenay Bridge pending the likely general introduction of by logging onto our Web site at Hudderseld dematerialised shareholdings in due course.
West Yorkshire HD8 0GA On-line facilities for shareholders Taylor Wimpey share price E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com You can access our Annual and Half Year Our share price is printed in many of the Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK Reports and copies of recent shareholder UK daily newspapers and is also available Calls cost 10p per minute plus network communications on-line at on our Web site www.
extras: lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm www.
It appears on BBC Ceefax and other digital Mon-Fri. television interactive services.
It may also To register for on-line access, go to be obtained by telephoning the FT Cityline Tel: 44 20 8639 3399 overseas www.
com and navigate service, telephone: 44 0 9058 171690 through to Investor Relations Shareholder Auditors and ask for Taylor Wimpey on the voice Information, and click on the service you Deloitte LLP activated response calls cost 75p per require.
To access some of these services minute from a BT landline, other Bankers you will first be required to apply on-line networks may vary.
HSBC Bank plc for a User ID.
Gifting shares to charity Solicitors Once you have registered for access, you If you have a small holding of Taylor Slaughter and May can make on-line enquiries about your Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to shareholding and advise the Company Stockbrokers consider gifting them to charity.
You of changes in personal details.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove Limited can do so through ShareGift, which is administered by a registered charity, Duplicate share register accounts Shareholders Services Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited.
If you are receiving more than one copy Web Communications Shares gifted are re-registered into the of our Annual Report, it may be that your On 3 March 2009 we wrote to name of the charity, combined with other shares are registered in two or more shareholders explaining that the Company donated shares and then sold through accounts on our register of members.
had decided to implement the authority it stockbrokers who charge no commission.
You might wish to consider merging had received from Shareholders to make The proceeds are distributed to a wide them into one single entry.
Please contact its shareholder communications available range of recognised charities.
For further Capita Registrars who will be pleased to electronically through the Companys details, please contact Capita Registrars carry out your instructions in this regard.
or approach ShareGift directly on Please note that following the re-branding www.
org or telephone them of the merged company, the Companys on 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
