Directors Report Directors Report Financial 55 Business Review Governance Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc for the year Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in financial statements.
Equity, and the related Notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Matters on which we are required to report by exception Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement contained within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being for our review.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Other matters on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Taylor Wimpey plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Colin Hudson Senior Statutory Auditor disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 2 March 2010 In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
