com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements 81 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of Telecity Group plc the Company will be held at the offices of Lovells LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG on 1 April 2010 at 2.00pm.
Agenda Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions.
Resolutions 9 to 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009, together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors therein.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report included in the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To re-appoint John Hughes as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint Brian McArthur-Muscroft as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint John OReilly as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
That the authority be conferred on the Directors by the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the end of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if sooner, on 30 June 2011 and for that period the Section 551 amount is 132,061.
Subject to Resolution 8 above having been duly passed, that the power be conferred on the Directors by the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the end of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if sooner, on 30 June 2011 and for that period the Section 561 amount is 19,809.
T hat the Company is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 0.002 each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 19,809,237: b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 0.002: c the maximum price inclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such Ordinary Share is purchased: d the Company may prior to the expiry of the authority hereby conferred make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry: and e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if sooner, on 30 June 2011.
That with effect from the conclusion of the meeting: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: b any limit previously imposed on the Companys authorised share capital whether by the Companys Memorandum of Association or Articles of Association or by resolution in general meeting be removed: and c the Articles of Association contained in the document produced to the meeting and for the purpose of identification signed by the Chairman of the meeting, be approved and adopted as the new Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the then current Articles of Association of the Company.
That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Tony Hunter Company Secretary 9 February 2010 Registered office: Masters House 107 Hammersmith Road London W14 OQH 1 TCY ar09 back.
indd 50 22 02 2010 09:56:19 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 82 Financial statements Notice of Meeting continued Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the Company to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed with this notice.
The completion and return of the Form of Proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
A member m ay appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by such member.
To appoint more than one proxy, please sign and date the Form of Proxy and, if necessary, attach a schedule listing the names and addresses in block letters of all of your proxies, the number of shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you and indicating how you wish each proxy to vote or abstain from voting.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
If you wish to appoint the Chairman as one of your multiple proxies, simply write the Chairman of the Meeting.
I n order to be valid, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney, or notarially certified copy thereof, under which it is executed, must be received by the Company no later than 2.00pm on 30 March 2010, having been returned by one of the following methods: either i in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxies The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or ii in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the paragraph below.
T o appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 2.00pm on 30 March 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST Sponsored Members, and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s, should contact their CREST Sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
CREST Members, and where applicable their CREST Sponsors or voting service providers, should note that CREST does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have the right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise such right, he she may, under such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 2pm on 30 March 2010 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Subsequent changes to entries on the register of members shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, the time referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled members must be entered on the Companys register of members at a time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
As at 9 February 2010 being the date of this Notice the Companys issued share capital comprises 198,092,373 Ordinary Shares of 0.002 each, each such share carrying one vote.
Accordingly, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9 February 2010 are 198,092,373.
An y corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements 83 11.
Copies of all service contracts between the Directors and the Company, the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors and the existing and proposed new Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours until the time of the meeting and at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until the end of the meeting.
Members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the meeting should do so using the following means: i by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: or ii by writing to the Registrars at Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or in any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
