com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements 77 Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the offices of Lovells LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG on 1 April 2010 at 2.00pm.
All shareholders are welcome to attend and there will be an opportunity for shareholders to speak with Directors at the meeting.
The Notice of Meeting follows and sets out the business to be transacted.
An explanation of each of the resolutions follows below.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts The Directors must present to the meeting the Companys annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors on the accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report with the associated Auditors Report.
These are contained in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires that the Directors seek the approval of the shareholders to the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 40 to 44 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
To re-appoint John Hughes, Brian McArthur-Muscroft and John OReilly as Directors The Companys Articles of Association require, and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends, that Directors retire periodically and no less than every three years.
This year John Hughes, Brian McArthur-Muscroft and John OReilly retire at the Companys AGM and, being eligible, Resolutions 3, 4 and 5 are for their re-appointment.
Biographical details of John Hughes, Brian McArthur-Muscroft and John OReilly are included on pages 30 and 31 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors The Act requires that the auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors,  LLP, until the next AGM.
To authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration In accordance with best practice, this is a separate, Ordinary Resolution to authorise, as is customary, the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
To authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities The Act requires that to allot unissued shares the Directors must receive authority from shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association give a general authority to the Directors to allot unissued shares which is subject to renewal by the shareholders.
This resolution would allow the Directors to issue new shares up to a total nominal value of 132,061 which represents approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 9 February 2010.
Unless renewed, the authority would expire no later than 30 June 2011.
As some shareholders will be aware, it is normal for a UK-listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
The Board confirms that it does not currently have any intention to utilise this authority but considers it desirable that it should have the flexibility to issue new shares from time to time to enable the Company to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise.
As at 9 February 2010, no shares were held by the Company as treasury shares within the meaning of Section 724 of the Act.
To disapply pre-emption rights The Act requires that, subject to certain exceptions, before directors of a company can issue any new shares including the sale of treasury shares for cash, the new shares must first be offered to existing members of the company in proportion to the number of shares which they hold at the time of the offer.
Resolution 9 asks the shareholders to renew the existing authority of the Directors to allot equity securities for cash and or to sell treasury shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis.
This authority is to relate to a the allotment of shares in a rights issue or other offer where subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient the shares attributable to holders of ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to their respective holdings of ordinary shares and b the allotment of ordinary shares having a maximum aggregate nominal value of 19,809, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 9 February 2010.
Again, as some shareholders will be aware, it is normal for a UK-listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
The Board confirms that it does not currently have any intention to utilise this authority.
indd 46 22 02 2010 09:56:18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 78 Financial statements Annual General Meeting continued 10.
To authorise the Company to repurchase its own shares The Act requires that a company must be authorised by its shareholders to purchase its own shares.
The Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the Company to renew the existing authority of the Directors to purchase shares.
The proposed authority would enable the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 19,809,237 ordinary shares of 0.002 each in the capital of the Company representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 9 February 2010 with a stated upper limit on the price payable which reflects the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Any shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
As with the previous two resolutions, it is normal for a UK-listed company to maintain such an authority irrespective of any intention to exercise it.
In addition, this authority would only be utilised if such is expected to result in an increase in earnings per share and to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
As at 9 February 2010, there were outstanding options and performance share awards, to subscribe for 5,837,548 ordinary shares in the Company although in practice it is intended that exercise of 2,452,426 of these options will be satisfied by the transfer of shares from the Companys employee benefit trust, rather than by the allotment of new shares.
This represents approximately 2.9% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 February 2010 and would represent approximately 3.7% of the issued share capital if both the Directors existing authority to buy back shares and the new authority now being sought were to be utilised in full.
To adopt new Articles of Association It is proposed to adopt new Articles of Association New Articles, principally to reflect the final implementation of the Act, which took effect on 1 October 2009, and the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholder Rights Regulations.
The Shareholder Rights Regulations implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK and took effect on 3 August 2009.
As the proposed changes affect various provisions in the Companys existing Articles of Association Current Articles, it is considered more practical to seek to replace the Current Articles in full rather than to seek approval for numerous individual amendments.
A more detailed explanation of the changes can be found in the attached Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office until the time of the AGM and at the AGM location from 15 minutes before the AGM until it ends.
To authorise general meetings to continue to be held on 14 days notice This resolution is required to reflect the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company has been able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Resolution 12 seeks such approval, as a Special Resolution.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation Your Directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of Meeting to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of such resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Financial statements 79 APPENDIX Resolution 11 New Articles of Association The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are described below.
In particular, changes which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature, and also some more minor changes which merely reflect statutory provisions or changes of terminology in the Act, have not been separately noted.
References in the Current Articles to statutory provisions in the Companies Act 1985 have also been amended to reflect the new statutory references under the Act.
The numbering in the New Articles varies from the numbering in the Current Articles, principally because of the deletion of redundant provisions described below.
The number identifying each Article principally affected by the amendment corresponds to the numbering in the New Articles unless otherwise indicated.
Resolution 11 a : the Companys objects and statement of shareholders limited liability Article 4 The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Act provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Act the objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys memorandum are deemed to be contained in a companys articles of association, but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Act, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys Current Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 11 a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of the shareholders.
Resolution 11 b : authorised share capital The Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital.
Resolution 11 b seeks approval of the removal of any previous limit on the authorised share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Redeemable shares Article 23 At present, if a company wishes to issue redeemable shares, it must include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Act enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Suspension of registration of share transfers Article 47 of the Current Articles The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Articles 54, 57 and 58 of the Current Articles Under the law currently in force, a company requires specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Act, a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Notice of general meetings Article 64 The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Act to require the company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the company offers members an electronic voting facility and a Special Resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
AGMs must continue to be held on 21 clear days notice.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current Articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
indd 48 22 02 2010 09:56:18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 80 Financial statements Annual General Meeting continued APPENDIX continued Resolution 11 New Articles of Association continued 7.
Voting record date Article 67 Under the Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect this requirement.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Article 78 Under the Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least ten clear days after the original meeting.
The Current Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands Article 90 The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Act so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect these changes and clarify that a proxy representing two or more members has a vote for and a vote against a resolution.
Voting by corporate representatives Article 90 The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Act in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles contain provisions which reflect these amendments.
Change of name Article 133 Prior to 1 October 2009, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Act, a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Use of seals Article 170 The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a Director and the Secretary or two Directors or such other person or persons as the Directors may approve.
This reflects the new formalities for execution of documents laid down in the Act.
Giving notice in the event of a postal strike Article 206 The Current Articles provide that in the event of a postal strike, the Company can convene a general meeting by putting the Notice of Meeting in a national daily newspaper.
Following changes made by the Act, there is now some doubt as to whether companies will be able to use this route in the future, and so the New Articles enable the Company to decide, in the event of curtailment of postal services, that it need only send notices electronically to those shareholders who have agreed that the Company can communicate with them in this way.
To try to ensure that all shareholders including those who have not yet agreed to electronic communication receive information about the meeting, the Company must still advertise the notice in a national daily newspaper and on its website and, as under the Current Articles, must send confirmatory copies of the notice out by post to those who did not receive it electronically, if it again becomes practicable to do so.
A copy of the New Articles is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
