RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 41 General information Principal activity, business review and future developments the election.
mr allen, mr Brasher, mr clarke, Dr H einsmann and mr Higginson principal activity of the group is retailing and associated activities in the UK, retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for the Republic of ireland, Hungary, poland, the czech Republic, slovakia, re-election.
the interests of Directors and their immediate families in the turkey, thailand, south Korea, malaysia, Japan, china and the Us.
the shares of tesco plc, along with details of Directors share options, are group also provides retail banking and insurance services through its contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 50 to 64. subsidiary tesco personal Finance.
at no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest Group results group revenue rose by 7bn to 54.3bn, representing an in any significant contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries.
group profit before tax increased by 151m, to 2,954m.
a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in section 234 of profit for the year was 2,166m, of which 2,161m was attributable to the companies act 2006 is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors equity holders of the parent company.
and the company secretary who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries of the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, Dividends the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend to the extent permitted by law.
in respect of those liabilities for which of 8.39p per ordinary share, to be paid on 10 July 2009 to members on the Directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a Directors Register at the close of business on 1 may 2009. together with the interim and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
dividend of 3.57p per ordinary share paid in December 2008, the total dividend for the year will be 11.96p compared with 10.90p for the previous Employment policies the group depends on the skills and commitment year, an increase of 9.7%.
of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
ongoing training programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the groups Fixed assets capital expenditure excluding business combinations customer service objectives and strive to achieve them.
the groups amounted to 4.7bn compared with 3.9bn the previous year.
in the selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure equal Directors opinion, the properties of the group have a market value in opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as gender, marital excess of the carrying value of 7bn included in these financial statements.
status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, or disability.
all decisions are based on merit.
Share capital and control of the Company Details of the companys internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well share capital including changes during the year in the issued share capital informed about the business of the group.
employees are encouraged and details of the rights attaching to the companys ordinary shares are set to become involved in the financial performance of the group through a out in note 29 on page 114.
Details of treasury shares held by the company variety of schemes, principally the tesco employee profit-sharing scheme are shown in note 30 on page 115.
During the year 25,214,811 ordinary shares shares in success, the savings-related share option scheme save as were repurchased for cancellation.
no shareholder holds securities carrying You earn and the partnership share plan Buy as You earn.
special rights with regards to control of the company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
the Board has power to purchase its own Political and charitable donations cash donations to charities amounted shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming agm within to 28,278,867 2008 22,655,173. contributions to community the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
projects including cause-related marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs amounted to 57,094,208 2008 54,542,913. shares held by the companys employee share incentive plan trust, there were no political donations 2008 nil.
During the year, the group international employee Benefit trust and tesco ireland share Bonus made contributions of 55,468 2008 45,023 in the form of sponsorship scheme trust rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special for political events: labour party 15,500: liberal Democrat party 6,150: rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the conservative party 8,595: scottish national party 7,343: plaid cymru shares rests with the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation 1,880: trade unions 16,000. of the company, and are not exercisable by the employees.
Supplier payment policy tesco plc is a signatory to the cBi code of the company is not party to any significant agreements that would take prompt payment.
copies of the code may be obtained from the cBi, effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the company.
centre point, 103 new oxford street, london Wc1a 1DU.
payment terms the company does not have agreements with any Director or officer that and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance.
tesco plc has no would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting trade creditors on its Balance sheet.
the group pays its creditors on a pay from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys share plans may on time basis which varies according to the type of product and territory cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
in which the suppliers operate.
Companys shareholders the company has been notified that as at the Going concern the Directors consider that the group and the company date of this report legal & general investment management limited owns have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable 4.55% of the issued share capital of the company.
the company is not future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis aware of any other ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more in in preparing the financial statements.
as with all business forecasts, the the issued share capital of the company.
Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
Articles of Association the companys articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Events after the Balance Sheet date there were no material events after the Balance sheet date.
Directors and their interests the Directors who served during the year were: Auditors a resolution to re-appoint  llp as auditors of the company and the group will be proposed at the annual mr D e Reid: mr R F chase cBe: sir terry leahy: mr R Brasher: mr p a clarke: general meeting.
mr a t Higginson: mr t J R mason: mr l mcilwee: miss l neville-Rolfe cmg: mr D t potts: mr c l allen cBe: ms J tammenoms Bakker: mr p cescau: Directors statement of dislosure of information to auditors mrs K cook: mr e m Davies cBe: Dr H einsmann: mr K J Hydon: and Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date of ms c mccall.
this annual Report and Financial statements have each confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by ms c mccall resigned from the Board on 10 april 2008 and mr e m Davies cBe section 418 of the companies act 2006 of which the groups auditors are resigned from the Board on 31 october 2008. the biographical details of the unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought present Directors are set out on page 43 of this Report.
ms tammenoms Bakker, to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant mr cescau, mr Hanna and mr mcilwee were appointed to the Board in the last audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of 12 months and, as required by the articles of association, offer themselves for that information.
this confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the companies act 2006.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
