Additional Information 161 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION History and development of the Company Building Products was based on the acquisition of Philips Industries 1990 and acquired Hart & Cooley 1999, Ruskin Tomkins plc was incorporated in England in 1925 as Air Management 2000 and Selkirk 2006, and disposed of F. H. Tomkins Buckle Company Limited, a small manufacturer of Lasco Fittings 2007 and closed the Philips Doors & Windows buckles and fasteners, which it remained until the 1980s.
It business 2009. was converted from a private company into a public company in March 1950, re-registered as a public limited company in Incorporation February 1982, and changed its name to Tomkins plc in 1988.
Tomkins plc is incorporated in England and Wales and is In the late 1980s, the Company made a number of acquisitions registered with the Registrar of Companies in England & Wales of engineering companies in both the UK and the US.
In 1992, under number 203531. the Group diversified into food manufacturing, with the acquisition of Ranks Hovis McDougall plc in the UK.
The Company operates under English law.
In 1996, the Group established the Industrial & Automotive Website business group with the acquisition of The Gates Corporation in the US.
The Companys website address is www.
All of the Companys recent results announcements and press In 1997, management embarked on a long-term programme releases are accessible on our website, together with this of disposing of non-core businesses and enhancing its and previous annual reports and it provides direct links to remaining core businesses through a number of bolt-on the websites of the Groups main operating companies.
In the early 2000s, the Group disposed of its Food The Companys website is not incorporated by reference Manufacturing and Professional, Garden and Leisure Products into the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2009. business groups and became focused on its two remaining business groups: Industrial & Automotive and Building The price of the Companys ordinary shares and its ADRs is also Products.
In addition, the site also provides historic share price information, index comparators Industrial & Automotive manufactures a wide range of systems and a shareholding calculator tool.
and components for car, truck and industrial equipment manufacturing markets, and industrial and automotive ADR holders aftermarkets throughout the world.
Industrial & Automotive Ordinary shares in Tomkins plc are listed on the London Stock is comprised of four ongoing operating segments: Power Exchange and, in the form of ADSs, on the NYSE.
ADSs, each Transmission, Fluid Power, Sensors & Valves and Other representing four ordinary shares, are evidenced by ADRs Industrial & Automotive.
issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as Depositary, pursuant Industrial & Automotive acquired Stant Corporation and its to a sponsored ADR programme.
The Companys ADSs have subsidiaries 1997, Schrader-Bridgeport 1998, ACD Tridon been listed on the NYSE since February 1995, prior to which 1999 and Stackpole 2003, and disposed of Trico 2007 they were quoted on NASDAQ from November 1988. and Stant Corporation 2008.
Tomkins is subject to the regulations of the SEC as they apply Building Products is comprised of two ongoing operating to foreign companies and files with the SEC its Annual Report segments: Air Distribution and Bathware.
Air Distribution on Form 20-F and provides other information as required.
ADR supplies the industrial and residential HVAC market, mainly holders are not members of the Company but may instruct the in North America.
Bathware manufactures bath tubs, shower Depositary as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the enclosures and an extensive range of luxury whirlpools, number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
ADR principally for the dealer distributor market in the US.
holders with queries about their holdings should contact the Depositary, whose contact details are provided on page 172.
162 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Fees payable by ADR holders Under the terms of the Depositary Agreement between the Depositary and the Company, the Depositary may charge holders of ADRs for certain services performed, as follows: Nature of the service Associated fee a Depositing or substituting the underlying shares $5.00 for each 100 ADSs Issue of ADRs by the Depositary including deposits and issuances in respect of share or portion thereof evidenced distributions, rights and other distributions.
by the new ADRs delivered.
b Receiving or distributing cash dividends made pursuant to the DepositaryAgreement $0.02 or less per ADS.
c Selling or exercising rights $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof.
d Withdrawing an underlying security $5.00 for each 100 ADSs Acceptance by the Depositary of ADRs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities.
or portion thereof evidenced by the ADRs surrendered.
e Transferring, splitting or combining ADRs $1.50 per ADR.
f General depositary services $0.02 per ADS At the sole discretion of the Depositary, an annual charge may be levied on ADR holders for or portion thereof.
The charges may be billed separately or deducted from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions.
g Expenses of the Depositary Expenses are payable by billing Including expenses incurred in relation to foreign exchange control regulations or any law or holders or by deducting charges regulation relating to foreign investment: or in connection with the Depositarys or its from one or more cash dividends custodians compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation, stock transfer or other taxes and or other cash distributions.
other governmental charges, cable, telex, fax, or delivery charges incurred at the request of the holder, transfer or registration fees for the registration of the underlying security on any applicable register in connection with the deposit or withdrawal of ADSs, expenses of the Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency and any other charge payable by the Depositary or its agents.
Note that the actual amounts charged by the Depositary or its agents may differ from those set out above, but may not exceed these levels.
Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company During the year, the Company received the following amounts directly and indirectly from the Depositary: Amount received Category of income $ Direct payments Legal and accounting fees incurred in connection with the preparation of the Form 20-F and ongoing SEC compliance and listing requirements 76,138 1 Investor relations 123,530 199,668 Indirect payments Annual maintenance fee waived 50,000 2 Waiver of costs incurred by the Depositary on the Companys behalf 20,000 Waiver of investor relations services fees 135,000 205,000 404,668 1 Includes professional service fees, shareholder services and out-of-pocket expenses.
2 Includes costs in relation to the distribution of dividends, tax and regulatory compliance and annual meeting services.
Additional Information 163 Shareholder Information Trading symbols Substantial shareholdings On the London Stock Exchange, the Companys SEDOL number The Companys issued share capital as at 2 January 2010 is 0896265 ISIN code GB0008962655 and its trading symbol consisted of 884,196,772 ordinary shares with a nominal value is TOMK.
On the NYSE, the Companys trading symbol for its of 9 cents each.
As at 24 February 2010, 884,199,235 ordinary shares were in issue.
As at that date, 923,267 ordinary shares were held by Share price information 63 registered holders with a registered address in the US and The high and low closing prices of the ordinary shares on the 57,821 ADRs were held by 141 registered holders with a London Stock Exchange and the ADSs on the NYSE for the registered address in the US.
Since certain of the ordinary periods indicated are set out below.
The tables do not reflect shares and ADRs were held by brokers and nominees, the trading after the daily official close of the London Stock number of record holders in the US may not be representative Exchange for which no official quotations exist.
of the number of beneficial holders or of where the beneficial holders are resident.
Five-year annual prices Ordinary shareholders of the Company have equal voting rights.
Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS To the Companys knowledge, no person or entity other than High Low High Low those shown below is the owner of more than 5% of its 2005 302.50 242.00 22.43 18.51 outstanding ordinary shares, nor is the Company directly or 2006 343.75 229.75 25.36 17.61 indirectly owned or controlled by any corporation, by any 2007 302.50 172.50 23.92 13.75 government or by any other natural or legal person or persons, 2008 194.75 93.50 15.09 5.29 severally or jointly.
2009 197.90 105.75 12.85 5.90 Based on an analysis of our share register as at 26 February 2010, the shareholders holding more than 5% of the Companys outstanding ordinary shares were as follows: Two-year quarterly prices Percentage Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS Number of of issued ordinary ordinary shares High Low High Low shares held held 2008 Schroders plc 80,265,499 9.08% Q1 189.50 150.75 15.01 12.19 Q2 194.75 151.25 15.09 12.01 Massachusetts Financial Q3 172.25 115.50 12.67 9.32 Services Company 67,629,214 7.65% Q4 154.75 93.50 11.07 5.29 2009 This information has been based on an analysis of the shares Q1 141.00 105.75 8.37 5.90 held on Tomkins share register and differs from the table of Q2 182.50 127.00 10.99 7.39 substantial shareholdings on page 46 which shows voting Q3 195.70 143.25 12.85 9.30 rights officially notified under section 792 of the Companies Q4 197.90 156.50 12.84 10.10 Act 2006 by the relevant shareholders.
2010 1 Significant changes in shareholders owning more than 5% Q1 212.00 178.70 13.65 11.13 of the ordinary share capital of the Company over the past 1 Covering the period up to and including 24 February 2010. three years were as follows: Invesco Limited decreased their holding to 0.04% at Most recent monthly prices 26 February 2010 from 0.83% at 19 February 2009 and Pence per ordinary share US dollars per ADS from 7.17% at 3 April 2008, having held 5.15% as at High Low High Low 13 April 2007.
1 Covering the period up to and including 24 February 2010.
BlackRock, Inc. increased their holding during the year from 0.48% at 19 February 2009 to a maximum of 5.40% in December 2009.
BlackRock, Inc. held 3.77% at 26 February 2010.
There are no arrangements currently known to the Company that would result in a change in control of the Company.
164 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Analysis of ordinary shareholdings as at 24 February 2010 Directors Report and Accounts Companies House Number Subject to the passing of the resolution to receive the financial Number of of shares % of share statements that will be proposed at the Companys AGM on shareholders 000s capital 1 June 2010, a copy of the Annual Report, omitting By type: photographic representations and with such further Individuals 16,055 51,979 5.89 modifications as may be necessary, will be lodged with the Financial institutions Registrar of Companies in England & Wales in accordance with and other corporates 2,194 830,507 94.11 the Companies Act 2006.
Further copies of the Annual Report in the form sent to shareholders will be available from the 1 Total 882,486 100.00 Company Secretary upon request.
By size: Documents on display 1 to 500 4,854 1,132 0.13 501 to 2,500 8,566 11,022 1.25 The Company is subject to the information requirements 2,501 to 5,000 2,418 8,602 0.97 of the Exchange Act and in accordance therewith files 5,001 to 20,000 1,609 14,873 1.69 reports and other information with the SEC.
These reports 20,001 to 50,000 302 9,658 1.09 and other information can be inspected and copied at the 50,001 to 100,000 110 8,181 0.93 public reference facilities maintained by the SEC, 100 F Street, 100,001 to 500,000 202 49,133 5.57 N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549, and at the SECs regional office Over 500,000 188 779,884 88.37 at Citicorp Center, 500 West Madison Street, Suite 1400, Chicago, Illinois 60661.
You may request copies of all or a 1 Total 882,486 100.00 portion of these documents from the Public Reference Section 1 of the SEC at 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549, at Excludes own shares held prescribed rates.
Reports filed by the Company with the SEC Purchases of ordinary shares since August 2002 are available on the SECs website, at www.
The table below sets out details of shares repurchased by the Company and affiliated purchasers in 2009 under publiclyAs a foreign private issuer, the Company is exempt under the announced plans or programmes.
Exchange Act from, among other things, the rules prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements and the Maximum number of reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained Number Average shares that in section 16 of the Exchange Act.
of shares price paid may yet be purchased per share purchased Memorandum and Articles of Association April 2009 632,500 143.84p 88,415,177 General Total 632,500 The rights of the shareholders are set out in the Articles of the Company and are provided by applicable English law.
The following summary of key provisions of the Articles is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Articles filed as Exhibit 1.1 to At the Companys AGM on 1 May 2008, shareholders the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2009. approved a resolution allowing the Company to repurchase up to 88,410,677 ordinary shares of the Company.
This approval The main objects and purposes of the Company, set out in expired at the next AGM of the Company held on 1 June Articles 4 a to c of the Memorandum of Association, are as 2009, at which shareholders approved a resolution allowing follows: the Company to repurchase up to 88,415,177 ordinary shares of the Company.
This approval will expire on 1 June 2010. to co-ordinate and manage the business activities of the Company and generally to carry out the function of a All shares repurchased in the period were purchased in order group holding company: that they can, at the relevant time, be allocated to employees under the Companys ABIP.
As at 3 January 2009, the to carry on the business of hardware manufacture and the Company held 3,658,550 ordinary shares purchased for this manufacture of and dealing in minerals and metals, and all purpose.
During 2009, 1,752,118 ordinary shares were kinds of other connected goods: and transferred to employees under the Companys ABIP.
to carry on any other business of a similar nature which the As at 2 January 2010, the Company held 2,543,194 of its own Directors deem convenient for the Company to carry on, or ordinary shares.
consider will enhance or render more profitable the value of the Companys property.
On 1 October 2009, elements of the Companies Act 2006 took effect so that, despite the Companys objects clause being found within its Memorandum of Association, they are deemed from that date to be part of the Articles of Association.
Additional Information 165 Shareholder Information Board of Directors The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to The Articles provide for a minimum of two and a maximum of borrow money, mortgage property and assets and issue 15 Directors.
The shareholders may change these limits by debentures and other securities.
The Articles require the Board passing an ordinary resolution.
The Articles do not contain any to restrict aggregate borrowings of the Company to one and requirement for a Director to hold qualification shares.
At each a half times the share capital of the Company plus capital AGM, the following shall retire: reserves calculated as set forth in the Articles.
any Director appointed by the Board since the last general Share capital, dividends and voting rights meeting: The authorised share capital of the Company is $142,664,780 any Director who held office at the time of the two divided into 1,585,164,220 ordinary shares with a nominal preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them: value of 9 cents each.
and Under section 21 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company any Director who has been in office, other than as a may by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders Director holding an executive position, for a continuous alter its Articles and thereby alter the rights of the shareholders period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
For a special resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the resolution.
Whenever the share capital of the Company is Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached an executive office on such terms and for such period as it may to any class may only be varied or abrogated either with the determine.
The Articles contain no age limit requirements for consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters of the the retirement or non-retirement of Directors.
issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of such holders.
The Articles allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of interest The Articles provide that the necessary quorum for a general and potential conflicts of interest, where appropriate, and meeting at which such a special resolution may be passed is at contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of least two persons holding or representing by proxy no less than interest to avoid a breach of duty.
one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of that class.
There are safeguards which will apply when the Directors The Company in a general meeting of shareholders may decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
declare dividends on the ordinary shares in its discretion by First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being reference to an amount in sterling or in a foreign currency, but considered will be able to take the relevant decision and, dividends may not exceed the amount recommended by the secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way Board.
Dividends remaining unclaimed for 12 years after they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the having been declared are forfeited and revert to the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is Other than in specific circumstances set out in the Companies appropriate.
Act 2006, on a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares, and proxies, present at a general meeting of the Company is The Articles contain provisions relating to confidential entitled to one vote.
On a poll, the holders of ordinary shares information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of are entitled to one vote per share.
Cumulative voting is not Board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a permitted.
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is potential conflict has previously been authorised by the appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or Directors.
shares held by the shareholder.
A Director who has disclosed to the Board that he or she has There are no provisions in the Articles discriminating against an an interest in any transaction or arrangement with the existing or prospective holder of securities as a result of such Company, may participate in such transaction or arrangement, shareholder owning a substantial number of shares.
but may not vote in respect of any such transaction.
A Director may not be counted in the quorum of a meeting in relation to General meetings any resolution on which he is barred from voting.
The Company shall in each year hold a general meeting of Directors basic fees other than the Chairman or an Executive shareholders within six months of its accounting reference Director may not exceed 250,000 per annum as the Board date.
The Board may call an extraordinary general meeting or any duly authorised committee thereof may from time whenever it determines appropriate.
In addition, members to time determine or such greater amount as the Company holding not less than one-tenth of the voting rights of the may, upon the recommendation of the Board, from time to share capital entitled to vote at a general meeting of the time by ordinary resolution determine.
Any Director who by Company can require an extraordinary general meeting to arrangement with the Board performs or renders any special be convened.
duties or services outside his ordinary duties as a Director may Only shareholders registered in accordance with the Articles be awarded extra remuneration in addition to fees or ordinary may be recognised as valid shareholders.
There are no other remuneration by way of salary or commission or participation limitations on the rights to own securities.
166 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED There are no provisions in the Articles that would have the Use of seals effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority of the Company and that would operate only with respect to in its articles of association to have an official seal for use a merger, acquisition or corporate restructuring involving the abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will no Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
Disclosure of ownership The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of There are no provisions in the Articles relating to the ownership documents other than share certificates.
Under the New threshold above which shareholder ownership must be Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be disclosed.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require a signed by one Director in the presence of a witness, whereas shareholder to notify the Company if, as a result of an previously the requirement was for signature by either a acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments, the Director and the Company Secretary or two Directors or such percentage of voting rights held by the shareholder reaches, other person or persons as the Directors may approve.
exceeds or falls below 3% or any 1% threshold above 3%, subject to certain exemptions.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Changes in capital Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy There are no conditions imposed by the Articles governing appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands changes in capital that are more stringent than those unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member, in conditions that would be required by governing English law.
which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote Proposed amendment of the Articles for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against The Company will shortly seek shareholder approval to amend the resolution.
The New Articles reflect these changes.
the Articles, primarily to reflect further provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that took effect on 1 October 2009.
Change of name An explanation of the main differences between the Articles Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change and the New Articles is set out below: its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a company is able to change its name by other means provided The Companys objects for by its articles of association.
To take advantage of this The provisions regulating the operations of the Company provision, the New Articles will enable the Directors to pass a are currently set out in the Companys Articles.
The Companys resolution to change the Companys name.
Memorandum of Association contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities Authorised share capital and unissued shares the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a give a wide scope.
company to have an authorised share capital.
The New Articles reflect this change, though Directors will still be limited as to The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the the number of shares they can at any time allot because constitutional significance of a companys memorandum of allotment authority continues to be required under the association.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share memorandum of association will record only the names of schemes.
subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the objects clause and all other provisions which are Redeemable shares contained in a companys memorandum of association, for Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles of association contained in the companys articles of association but the the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead, provided they are so authorised by the articles of association.
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company companys articles of association provide otherwise, a has no plans to issue redeemable shares, but if it did so, the companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, the shares in the usual way.
Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association from 1 October 2009, and replace them with an unrestricted objects clause within the New Articles.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Additional Information 167 Shareholder Information Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide Registrar shares, and reduce share capital Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific plc, such as loss of a share certificate, dividend payment enabling provisions in its articles of association to purchase its instructions, or a change of address, or the amalgamation of own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to multiple holdings should be notified direct to the Companys reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as Registrar, Equiniti Limited, whose contact details for general well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
enquiries are provided on page 172.
The Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Any correspondence with the Registrar should refer to Tomkins Companies Act 2006, a company will only require shareholder plc, quoting the reference 0398, and state the registered name authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be and address of the shareholder.
necessary for articles of association to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Payment of dividends Dividends are declared and paid in US dollars although, unless Vacation of office by Directors they elect otherwise, shareholders in the UK and the Republic The Articles specify the circumstances in which a Director must of Ireland will receive dividends in sterling.
The New Articles update these provisions to treat have mandated their dividends to be credited to a nominated physical illness in the same manner as mental illness.
bank or building society account should note that dividends are paid automatically to their account through the Bankers Adjournments for lack of quorum Automated Clearing Services BACS with the associated tax Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the voucher being sent direct to shareholders at their registered Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned address unless requested otherwise.
If the nominated account for lack of quorum must be held at least ten clear days after is with a bank or building society which is not a member of the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
BACS, both the payment and tax voucher are sent to the account holding branch.
Deferred shares Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends All reference to deferred shares in the Articles have been and who wish to have their dividend paid direct to a bank or removed in the New Articles, following their cancellation building society account should complete a dividend mandate on 16 December 2009. instruction form obtainable from the Companys Registrar, whose contact details with regard to the payment of dividends General are provided on page 172.
Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform Dividend Reinvestment Plan the language of the New Articles with that used in the model The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This allows articles of association for public companies produced by the UK shareholders to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares Governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
of the Company in the market.
The Companys Registrar arranges, on behalf of participants, through the agency of a Articles of association which duplicate statutory provisions suitably authorised stockbroking business, the purchase of the Provisions in the Articles which replicate provisions contained in maximum whole number of ordinary shares possible on, or as the Companies Act 2006 are, in the main, to be removed in soon as reasonably practicable after, the dividend payment the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by date.
Favourable dealing costs have been arranged.
For further the UK Government that statutory provisions should not be details or an application form, please contact the Registrars duplicated in a companys constitution.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan team, whose contact details are provided on page 172.
168 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Taxation A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company The following is a summary of the principal US federal income in a tax-efficient manner.
You can obtain more information on and UK tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and ISAs from our corporate ISA provider, Equiniti Limited, whose disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs by certain US Holders contact details are provided on page 172. as defined below and not a complete analysis or listing of all of the possible tax consequences of such purchase, ownership or disposition.
Furthermore, this summary does not address the Patents, trademarks and contracts tax consequences under state, local, or non-US or non-UK tax Trademarks and trade names are identified with a number of law of such purchase, ownership or disposition, or the US the Groups products and services and are of importance in the federal estate or gift tax consequences thereof.
sale and marketing of those products and services.
However, the Group is not dependent to any significant degree upon Certain US Holders with special status e. g. banks and financial these trademarks and trade names, nor on any single or series institutions, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, dealers of related patents, licenses, financial or commercial contracts.
in securities, and traders in securities that mark-to-market or in special tax situations e. g. whose functional currency is not Government laws and regulations the US dollar, who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, appreciated financial position, hedge, conversion The Company's subsidiaries and many of our products are transaction or other integrated investment, who hold directly, regulated by government authorities in a number of countries.
indirectly or through attribution 10% or more of the voting The Company's subsidiaries are subject to regulation under power of the Companys shares, or who are subject to the various and changing local, national and international laws and alternative minimum tax will be subject to special rules not regulations relating to the environment, business practice and described below.
This summary is limited to US Holders that employee health and safety.
Permits may be required for hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets and does certain operations particularly air emission permits and these not address the tax treatment of US Holders that are permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain partnerships or pass-through entities that are not partnerships circumstances, revocation.
Some of the applicable regulations or the tax treatment of the holders of interests in such entities.
allow local or national authorities to mandate product recalls or The following summary of US federal income and UK tax seize products.
consequences is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and should not be considered legal or tax advice.
Prospective Our products are subject to regulations relating to production investors are, therefore, advised to consult their own professional including environmental regulations, sale, advertising, safety, tax advisers with respect to the tax consequences of the labelling and raw materials.
purchase, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or Management believes that the Companys subsidiaries are in ADSs, including specifically the consequences under state, substantial compliance with applicable laws and regulations local and tax laws.
and that appropriate controls have been implemented by This summary is based upon the Code, Treasury regulations subsidiaries to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
promulgated under the Code, the Tax Convention, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof, all as in Exchange controls effect as of the date of this Annual Report and all of which are There is currently no English law, decree or regulation that subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
Statements restricts the export or import of capital, including, but not regarding UK tax laws and practices set out below are based limited to, UK foreign exchange controls, or that affects the on those UK laws and published practices of HM Revenue & remittance of dividends except as otherwise set out under Customs as of the date of this Annual Report which UK laws Taxation below or other payments to holders of ordinary and practices are subject to change, again possibly with shares.
There are no limitations under English law or the retroactive effect.
As used herein, a US Holder is a beneficial Companys Articles on the rights of persons who are neither owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal tax residents nor nationals of the UK from freely holding, voting purposes, is: or transferring ordinary shares in the same manner as UK a citizen or resident of the US: residents or nationals.
a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, that is created or organised in the US or under the laws of the US or any state thereof or the District of Columbia : an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source: a trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust: or a trust if it has a valid election in effect to be treated as a US person under the Code.
Additional Information 169 Shareholder Information HM Revenue & Customs should treat US Holders of ADSs as PFIC status the owners of the underlying ordinary shares for the purpose The Company believes that it will not be considered a PFIC for of the taxation of dividend payments under the Tax US federal income tax purposes.
However, since the Companys Convention.
US Holders of ADSs are also treated as the owners status as a PFIC depends on the composition of its income and of the underlying shares for the purposes of the Code.
assets and the market value of its assets from time to time, there can be no assurance that it will not be considered a PFIC in any taxable year.
Taxation of dividends The gross amount of distributions in respect of the Companys US shareholders in a company classified as a PFIC have certain ordinary shares or ADSs will be included in the gross income of federal income tax consequences.
In determining a companys US Holders and treated as dividends to the extent of the PFIC status for a taxable year, two tests must be applied, as Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits, as well as certain look-through rules.
If 75% or more of a determined under US federal income tax principles.
Such companys gross income including the pro-rata gross income dividends will not qualify for the dividends received deduction of any company in which such company is considered to own available in certain circumstances to corporate holders.
25% or more of the stock by value for the taxable year is Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings passive, it is considered a PFIC.
Alternatively, if 50% or more of and profits will be treated as a return of capital to the extent of its gross assets including the pro-rata value of the assets of a US Holders adjusted tax basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs any company in which such company is considered to own and, thereafter, as capital gains.
25% or more of the stock by value during the taxable year, based on their average value, are either held for the production For taxable years that begin before 2011, qualified dividend of or produce passive income, it is considered a PFIC.
In this income as defined below paid by the Company generally will instance, passive income commonly includes dividends, be taxable to non-corporate US Holders at the 15% reduced interest, royalties, rents, annuities, gains from commodities and rate.
For this purpose, except as described below, dividends securities transactions, and the excess of gains over losses from paid by the Company will be qualified dividend income and the disposition of assets which produce passive income unless taxable at the reduced rate, if shares in the Company are the 25% look-through rules otherwise apply.
readily tradable on an established securities market in the US, including NYSE and NASDAQ, or if the Company is eligible for If the Company were treated as a PFIC in a taxable year, a US benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty with the US Holder may be subject to particular adverse tax consequences.
which the US Secretary of the Treasury has determined is The receipt of certain excess distributions, as well as the satisfactory for this purpose and which includes a provision for disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, could trigger increased the exchange of information.
The US Secretary of the Treasury tax liability.
Gain or excess distribution would be allocated has determined that the Tax Convention qualifies as a among the tax years of the shareholders holding period from comprehensive income tax treaty for this purpose.
Dividends the time the entity was determined to be a PFIC.
The portion paid by a foreign corporation will not constitute qualified allocable to prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal dividend income, however, if that corporation is treated, for US federal tax rate and would be subject to an interest charge.
the tax year in which the dividend is paid or the preceding tax year, as a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes.
In addition, Certain elections may enable the shareholder in a PFIC to avoid US Holders will be eligible for the reduced rate only if they some of these adverse tax consequences.
Under the QEF have held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days election, a US shareholder is taxed currently on its share of the during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the companys ordinary income.
Under the mark-to-market ex-dividend date and satisfy certain other requirements.
election, a US shareholder recognises gains or losses each year for the difference between the fair market value and the US Holders will not be subject to UK withholding tax on any adjusted basis of his or her shares.
US Holders should consult dividends paid in respect of ordinary shares.
Provided that their tax advisers for further details of the restrictions and dividends paid in respect of ADSs are treated as distributions coverage of each election and the potential tax consequences for UK tax purposes, such dividends will not be subject to UK arising from the ownership and disposition of an interest in a withholding tax.
Foreign currency dividends Taxation of capital gains For US federal income tax purposes, any dividend paid in Corporate US Holders that are resident in the US and not foreign currency will be included in income in a US dollar resident in the UK for UK tax purposes will not generally be amount equal to the US dollar value of such foreign currency liable for UK corporation tax on capital gains realised on the calculated by reference to the exchange rate in effect on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless a day the dividends are actually or constructively received by the specific Corporate US Holder carries on a trade in the UK US Holders, regardless of whether the foreign currency is through a permanent establishment and the ordinary shares or converted into US dollars at that time.
US Holders will generally ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value of such trade through such permanent establishment.
Nonon the date of actual or constructive receipt.
Any gain or loss corporate US Holders that are resident in the US and are realised by the US Holders on subsequent conversion or other neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax disposition of the foreign currency will be treated as US source purposes will not generally be liable for UK tax on capital gains ordinary income or loss.
realised on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless a specific non-corporate US Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and the ordinary shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation through such branch or agency.
170 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Notwithstanding the foregoing, an individual US Holder who The issuance of ordinary shares to the custodian of the is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax Depositary will generally give rise to an SDRT liability at 1.5% purposes for a period of less than five years, but who was of the issue price.
The transfer of ordinary shares to the previously resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, and who custodian of the Depositary will generally give rise to either UK disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs during the period of nonstamp duty at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary residence may also be liable on returning to the UK for UK tax shares transferred rounded up to the next multiple of 5 or, in on capital gains despite the fact that the individual was not the unlikely event that there is no transfer instrument on which resident or ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes UK stamp duty is chargeable, to SDRT at the rate of 1.5% of at the time of the disposal.
the value of the ordinary shares transferred.
Subject to the PFIC rules discussed above, US Holders will In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the custodian of the tax purposes upon the sale or other disposal of such US Depositary on deposits of ordinary shares will be charged by Holders ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the the Depositary to the party to whom the ADSs are delivered difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised against such deposits.
on the sale or other disposal and the US Holders adjusted tax Following the issue or transfer of ordinary shares to the basis, determined in US dollars, in such ordinary shares or custodian of the Depositary, no SDRT will generally be payable ADSs.
Such gains or losses will be eligible for long-term capital on the issue of ADSs or on an agreement to transfer ADSs, nor gain or loss treatment if the ordinary shares or ADSs have been should UK stamp duty be payable on a transfer of ADSs, held for more than one year at the time of such sale or provided, amongst other things, that the instrument of transfer disposal.
Long-term capital gains of individuals are eligible for is executed and retained outside the UK.
A transfer of ordinary reduced rates of taxation.
The deductibility of capital losses is shares by the Depositary or its nominee to the relevant ADS subject to limitations.
In general, any gain or loss recognised by holder when the ADS holder is not transferring beneficial a US Holder on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares ownership will generally not be liable to a stamp duty charge or ADSs will be US-source income or loss for the purposes of or to the principal 0.5% SDRT charge.
the US federal foreign tax credit limitation.
US backup withholding and information reporting UK inheritance tax Payments of dividends and other proceeds with respect to Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, ordinary shares or ordinary shares or ADSs made within the US by a US paying ADSs will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax upon agent or other US intermediary will be reported to the IRS and an individuals death or on a transfer of the ordinary shares or to the US Holders as may be required under applicable ADSs during the individuals lifetime if it is held by an individual regulations unless a specific US Holder is a corporation or who is domiciled in the US and is not treated as domiciled in otherwise establishes a basis for exemption.
Backup the UK and is not a national of the UK.
In certain other cases withholding may apply to reportable payments if the US where the individual is domiciled in the US and is treated as Holders fail to provide an accurate taxpayer identification domiciled in the UK, the individual may be subject to UK number or otherwise fail to comply with, or establish an inheritance tax.
Also, an individual will be subject to UK exemption from, such backup withholding requirements.
The inheritance tax in the exceptional case in which ordinary shares amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a US or ADSs are part of the business property of a UK permanent Holder will be allowed as a credit against his or her US federal establishment or pertains to a fixed base of the individual in income tax liability and any excess amounts will be refundable the UK used for the performance of independent personal if the US Holder provides the required information to the IRS.
In the unusual case where ordinary shares or ADSs are US Holders should consult their tax advisers as to their subject to both the UK inheritance tax and the US federal qualification for exemption from backup withholding and the estate and gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention procedure for obtaining an exemption.
generally provides for a tax credit under the rules enumerated in the Estate and Gift Tax Convention.
Share dealing For UK residents, internet and telephone share dealing UK stamp duty or SDRT services have been arranged through Equiniti Limited, UK stamp duty or SDRT is not generally payable on the which provide a simple way to buy or sell the Companys issuance of ordinary shares except see below regarding the ordinary shares.
For internet dealing, please log on to issue of ordinary shares to the custodian of the Depositary.
co. uk dealing, where full information The transfer of ordinary shares will generally give rise to a is provided.
You will need your account number shown on liability to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to your share certificate or tax voucher.
The commission rate for the next multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the internet dealing is 1% with a minimum charge of 25.
SDRT is generally chargeable at the same telephone dealing, please call 0845 603 7037, or 44 0 121 rate on entering into an unconditional agreement to transfer 415 7560 from outside the UK, between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm ordinary shares or upon a conditional agreement to transfer Monday to Friday.
The commission rate for share transactions ordinary shares becoming unconditional.
However, such SDRT by telephone is 1.5%, with a minimum charge of 25. is cancelled or repaid if the agreement is completed within six years of the date of the unconditional agreement or the date A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form, on which the conditional agreement became unconditional by together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by calling a duly stamped transfer instrument.
transfer of ordinary shares is executed where there is no Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline.
change of beneficial ownership, it will generally not be subject Other providers costs vary.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm to UK stamp duty or to the principal 0.5% SDRT charge.
The commission rate is 1% with a minimum charge of 20.
Additional Information 171 Shareholder Information Contact details for Equiniti Limited with regard to share dealing As permitted by the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 are provided on page 172. relating to electronic communications, the Company now supplies all shareholders with shareholder documents by making them available on its website, except where a Global Invest Direct shareholder has specifically requested that the Company A simple dealing service is available to US residents only for continues to provide him or her with hard copies.
Shareholders buying and selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from will be informed by post or email whenever a shareholder JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. whose contact details are document is made available on the website.
Shareholders can, provided on page 172. at any time, change their decision on how they wish to receive shareholder documents by advising the Companys Registrar, ShareGift whose contact details with regard to electronic communication The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation are provided on page 172. scheme registered charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small number of Electronic proxy voting shares, which might be considered uneconomic to sell, are able Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and forthcoming AGM via the internet.
If you have registered for sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide the shareview service offered by the Companys Registrar, you range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise may submit your voting instructions by logging on to your neither to a gain nor a loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes shareview portfolio and accessing the Company Meetings and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief Tomkins site.
If you have not registered with shareview, you on the value of the donation.
may still register your vote electronically by going to ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys www.
You will be required to key in the three shareholders are available from the Companys Registrar and, security numbers printed on your form of proxy to access the even if the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift voting site.
The service is generally free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
ShareGifts contact details are provided on page 172.
Electronic communication The Companys Registrar operates a share register internet enquiry service to provide shareholders with details of their shareholdings.
To register for the service, please go to www.
You will need your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certificate or tax voucher and you will be asked to select your own PIN.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
Once registered, shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder information and Company documents in electronic format.
The main benefits of this system are speed and ease of use while saving money for your Company and reducing the demand on natural resources.
co. uk will also provide you with more details of the service and practical help and information on other share registration matters.
