Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes : it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably: and the product from which the asset arises meets the groups criteria for technical feasibility.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which is 3 years.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
l Other intangible assets excluding goodwill Other intangible assets excluding goodwill are measured initially at purchase cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, on the following bases: Patents and trademarks 3 years Software licenses 1 3 years Purchased technology 3 7 years Customer relationships 3 11 years Brand names 3 10 years the estimated useful lives for these purchased intangible assets, acquired through acquisition, are based on the independent valuation reports prepared.
m Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
n Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
o Provisions Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
p Share-based payments The group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 January 2004.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black Scholes model.
44 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
