Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.
Segmental Analysis The company is organized internally along group function lines with each line reporting to the groups chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer.
The primary group function lines include: finance: operations, including legal, HR, and operations, marketing, sales and technology.
Each of these functions supports the overall business activities, however they do not engage in activities from which they earn revenues or incur expenditure in their operations with each other.
No discrete financial information is produced for these function lines.
The company integrates acquired businesses and products into the Autonomy model such that separate management financial data on these entities is not maintained post acquisition.
The group has operations in various geographic locations however no discrete financial information is maintained on a regional basis.
Decisions around the allocation of resources are not determined on a regional basis and the chief operating decision maker does not assess the groups performance on a geographic basis.
The group is a software business that utilises its single technology in a set of standard products to address unique business problems associated with unstructured data.
The group offers over 500 different functions and connectors to over 400 different data repositories as part of its product suite.
Each customer selects from a list of options, but underneath from a single unit of the proprietary core technology platform.
As a result, no analysis of revenues by product type can be provided.
Each of the groups virtual brands is founded on the groups unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL, the groups core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured information.
Separate financial information is not prepared for each virtual brand to assess its performance for the purpose of resource allocation decisions.
The pervasive nature of the groups technology across each brand requires decisions to be taken at the group level and financial information is prepared on that basis.
A significant proportion of the groups cost base is fixed and represents payroll and property costs which relate to the multiple function lines of the group.
As a result the business model drives enhanced performance though growing sales and accordingly group wide revenue generation is the key performance metric that is monitored by the chief operating decision maker.
The revenue financial data used to monitor performance is prepared and compiled on a group wide basis.
No separate revenue financial analysis is maintained on revenues from any of the virtual brands.
The companys chief operating decision maker is the groups Chief Executive Officer, who evaluates the performance of the company on a group wide basis and any elements within it on the basis of information from junior executives and group financial information and is ultimately responsible for entity-wide resource allocation decisions.
As a consequence of the above factors the group has one operating segment in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 also requires information on a geographic basis and that information is shown below.
The groups operations are located primarily in the United Kingdom, the US and Canada.
The group also has a significant presence in a number of other European countries as well as China, Japan, India, Singapore and Australia.
The following tables provide an analysis of the groups sales and net assets by geographical market based upon the location of the groups customers.
48 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
