Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
"Significant Accounting Policies continued b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries, together the group"" made up to 31 December each year."
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
c Investments in associate An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale see below.
Investments in associate are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associate in excess of the groups interest in the associate are not recognised.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a group company transacts with an associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the groups cash-generating unit expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit and goodwill is less than their combined carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous US GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
e Revenue recognition The group discloses revenue within two categories, namely sale of goods and rendering of services, as required by IAS 18.
During 2009 there has been no change to the groups revenue recognition policies in any respect.
The nature of the transactions that the group has entered into during 2009 is the same as in 2008 in all respects.
To assist the reader in understanding the groups business the accounting policy set forth below has been reviewed and clarified, but does not represent any change in the groups accounting policy for the recognition or measurement of revenue.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to archiving and customer support and maintenance fees, which have been invoiced to the customer prior to the performance of these obligations.
Deferred revenue is recognised rateably over the term of the contract, usually over a period of one to three years.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
