Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.
Significant Accounting Policies continued fide-recognition of financial liabilities The group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments The group does not use derivative financial instruments.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty a Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, management have made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are discussed below.
Revenue recognition There are no significant judgements which management consider have a material impact on the financial statements.
The accounting policy set out in note 2 has been followed.
The only area where management is required to exercise judgement relates to collectability.
Management uses extensive credit checks to evaluate whether a potential customer is credit worthy prior to a sale.
If the customer does not pass the groups rigorous credit checks then the revenue is deferred and recognised only upon cash receipt from the customer.
Going concern The group has considerable financial resources together with a significant number of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
At 31 December 2009 the group has cash balances of $242.8 million and total debt of $197.5 million.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts of the group the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the twelve month consolidated financial statements.
b Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Recoverability of internally generated intangible assets During the year $24.7 million 2008: $11.2 million of internally generated intangible assets were capitalised as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Management have assessed expected revenues to be generated from these assets and deemed that no adjustment is required to the carrying value of the assets.
Management have also reviewed the assets for impairment and deemed that no impairment is required.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating unit CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows of the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was $1,287.0 million 2008: $796.6 million.
Trade receivables The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables approximates their fair value.
A provision has been made for estimated unrecoverable amounts based on information available to management.
Changes in collectability of trade receivables may impact the level of provision required.
