Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 5.
See note 15b of the group accounts for additional information.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
There are no past due or impaired receivable balances 2008: nil.
Related Party Transactions During the year the company had no license fee related expenditures 2008: nil.
All transactions are conducted on an arms length basis and the amount owed by subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in note 6.
Financial Instruments The policies of the group are discussed in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
The tables below provide the financial instruments disclosures for the company.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 9.
The following table details the companys sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the company where the denomination of the loan is in a currency other than the currency of the lender or the borrower.
A positive number below indicates an increase in profit and other equity where the Sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency.
For a 10% weakening of the functional currency against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
There has not been any significant change in the companys sensitivity to foreign currency during the year.
d Other price risks The company is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments.
The shares included above represent investments in listed equity securities that present the company with opportunity for return through dividend income and trading gains.
Equity investments designated as available for sale are held for strategic rather than trading purposes.
The company does not actively trade these investments.
e Equity price sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at the reporting date.
If equity prices had been 25% higher lower other equity reserves would increase decrease by 1.9 million 2008: 0.9 million for the company as a result of the changes in fair value of available-for-sale shares.
The companys investment in blinkx is a strategic long term investment following the demerger and is expected to be held for the foreseeable future.
Due to the early stages of this entity it is likely that there will be volatility in the share price and hence the value of this investment may vary significantly from period to period.
70 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the Company Only Financial Statements 9.
Financial Instruments continued f Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the companys remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the company can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
The fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Financial assets in this category include the quoted shares held in blinkx Plc.
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71
