Additional Information Principal Group Companies The principal companies within the groups operations are set forth below.
Company Country of Operation Function Autonomy Corporation plc England Holding company Autonomy, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Autonomy Systems Ltd England Software development and distribution Autonomy Nordic AS Norway Sub licensing etalk Corporation USA Software development and distribution Interwoven, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Meridio Holdings Limited Northern Ireland Software development and distribution Virage, Inc. USA Software development and distribution ZANTAZ, Inc. USA Software development and distribution Operating subsidiaries of the above companies have been excluded to the following countries: Australia: Belgium: Canada: China: France: Germany: extent such subsidiaries operations are consolidated in the interim Hong Kong: India: Italy: Japan: Korea: Luxembourg: Mexico: Netherlands: operating companies operations and results.
These include operating Singapore: South Africa: Spain: Sweden: and the U. K. All of the above subsidiaries, providing marketing sales and support to the group, in the entities are 100% owned.
Joint Ventures and Associates Company Country of Incorporation Holding OpenV China Holdings Company Cayman Islands 40% Registrars and Transfer Office If shareholders have any inquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or lost share certificates, they should contact the Companys registrars at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Autonomy Corporation plc share register and holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding via the registrars investor centre at www.
Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, UK Telephone: 44 870 702 0000 email: web.
co. uk Stock Exchanges Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive company press Autonomys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange releases, including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering under the symbol AU..
Autonomy does not maintain listings on any other for Autonomy news via the companys website at www.
Registering for Autonomy news will enable users to have news automatically e-mailed to them.
Shareholder Communications The company provides a number of shareholder services online at Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found via the Autonomy home http: www.
com content Investors, where shareholders may: page on the Internet http: www.
Financial results, news on Autonomy products, services and other activities can also be found via register to receive electronic shareholder communications: that address.
Autonomys Investor Relations Department can be reached listen to live and recoded webcasts of investor conference calls: on 44 1223 448 000 or at investor relations@autonomy.
view and or download annual reports and interim financial reports: and check the current share price.
Advisors Auditors Stockbrokers Stockbrokers Deloitte LLP UBS Warburg Citigroup Global Markets Limited 126-130 Hills Road 1 2 Finsbury Avenue Canada Square Cambridge CB2 1RY London EC2N 2PP London E14 5LB Investor Relations Registered Office Financial Dynamics Ltd. Cambridge Business Park 26 Southampton Buildings Cowley Road London WC2A 1PB Cambridge CB4 0WZ 72 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
