Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 29.
f Financial risk management objectives The group is subject to market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency exposures as the operating companies within the group principally generate revenues in the currencies in which they incur the majority of their expenditure.
The group manages credit risk in respect of its trade receivables as set out in note 16.
Liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk are limited as the group has no net debt.
The Board review the respective risks on a quarterly basis to ensure no significant exposures exist.
g Market risk The groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The group does not use derivatives to manage the foreign currency risks due to the natural hedging that exists within the group.
Interest rate risk is not considered significant as the cash balances exceed the bank loan balance.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risk.
h Foreign currency risk management The group undertakes certain transactions denominated in foreign currencies.
Hence, exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise both in terms of transactional risk as well as translational risk.
The group is naturally hedged, as noted above, which addresses the transactional risk.
Translational risk is minimal and is not hedged by the group as the majority of the groups assets and liabilities are denominated in dollars which is also the groups presentational currency.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in the functional currency of the entity concerned against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis 62 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
