NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the forty-sixth Annual General Meeting of or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,954,585: Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Monday and 17 May 2010 at 11.45 a. m. b equity securities as such phrase is to be interpreted in accordance with section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to an THE RESOLUTIONS aggregate nominal amount of 13,909,170 such amount to Resolutions 1 to 8 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted Resolutions 9 to 12 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under paragraph a of this resoluORDINARY BUSINESS tion 8 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: 1.
To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2009, together with the directors report, and i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be the directors remuneration report and the auditors report on those practicable to their existing holdings: and accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights 2.
To re-appoint Robert Walker as a non-executive director, who was of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors appointed by the Board on 30 September 2009 pursuant to Article otherwise consider necessary, 71 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Robert Walker appear on page 45. and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary 3.
To re-appoint Chris Bunker as a non-executive director, who is or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitleretiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles ments, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems of Association.
Biographical details of Chris Bunker appear on in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter page 45. such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if 4.
To re-appoint John Coleman as a non-executive director, who is earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2011 but, in retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter of Association.
Biographical details of John Coleman appear on into agreements before the authority expires which would, page 45. or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after 5.
To re-appoint Geoff Cooper as a director, who is retiring by rotation the authority expires and the Directors may allot shares or pursuant to Article 76 of the Companys Articles of Association.
grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the Biographical details of Geoff Cooper appear on page 44. authority had not expired.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of 9.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting passing of resolution 8, the Directors be generally empowered until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to fix their securities as such phrase is to be interpreted in section 560 of the remuneration.
Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 8 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment SPECIAL BUSINESS of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies 7.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the 31 December 2009 set out on pages 53 to 63 be approved.
Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 8.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors be a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the to the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 8, such Company to allot: power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in a shares as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006 connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : 120 N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid practicable to their existing holdings: and for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence: ii.
to holders of other equity securities, as defined in section c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Directors average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share otherwise consider necessary, as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions which that ordinary share is purchased: and make any arrangements which they consider necessary d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitleGeneral Meeting of the Company or 30 June 2011, whichever ments, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, is the earlier: and or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of granted by paragraph a of resolution 8 and or an allotsuch authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares ment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by pursuant to any such contract.
virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in para- 12.
That with effect from the end of the meeting: graph a of this resolution 9 up to a nominal amount of 1,043,188 calculated, in the case of equity securities which a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by are rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordideleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of nary shares as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act Act 2006 by reference to the aggregate nominal amount of 2006 are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles relevant shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights, of Assocation: and such power to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, b the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled until the close of business on 30 June 2011 : but so that the by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification Company may make offers and enter into agreements before be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in the power expires which would, or might, require equity securisubstitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of ties to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may Association.
allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionAndrew Pike ally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the Company Secretary meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton NN5 7UG shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary 23 February 2010 shares, provided that: Registered in England No.
824821 a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be found on page to be purchased is 20,863,756 representing 10% of the 124. issued share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2010 : N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 121 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
