DIRECTIONS TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS TO BE HELD AT NORTHAMPTON RUGBY FOOTBALL CLUB Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG The Travis Perkins AGM will be held in The Captains Lounge and The Rodber Suite.
Parking is directly outside in the VIP Car Park follow VIP Car park signs off Weedon Road.
From the South via the M1 From Welford, Market Harborough Exit off motorway at junction 15A and follow the signs towards Sixfields.
Aim towards the Kingsthorpe area of Northampton.
Turn right at the At roundabout with TGI Fridays on the right and a BP petrol station major set of traffic lights the Cock Hotel is on the corner, signposted on the left carry straight on up the hill.
At Cineworld roundabout turn Sixfields.
Continue on this road until you get to Cineworld roundabout right towards the Town Centre.
Go straight over the next roundabout approx 3 miles then continue as from the South.
Sainsburys is on the left before the roundabout and Wickes on the right after the roundabout and set of traffic lights.
Continue on that road From the Railway Station Weedon Road.
The entrance to the Saints is on the right immediately Turn right out of the station.
Continue past Thomas A Becket pub, after Beacon Bingo.
Follow signs for VIP car park off Weedon Road.
Church and Co. factory and bus station.
At fork in road bear left and Franklins Gardens is on your left.
From the North via the M1 Exit off motorway at junction 16 and follow the A45 to Northampton.
At Nearest Airports Cineworld roundabout continue straight on and follow directions from London Luton and Nottingham East Midlands.
Further Information From the East, Peterborough, Cambridge, Wellingborough For detailed directions you might want to try the following websites: Follow A45 to M1 junction 15.
Head north to junction 15A then follow Multimap www.
com : directions from the South.
For further details about the venue:www.
co. uk 124 D I R E C T I O N S T O T H E A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ENqUIRIES exception of the Wickes, Toolsinthepost and ToolStation sites which Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company Secretary at allow on-line ordering by secure card transaction.
the Companys registered office: Some of the sites provide information about branch locations and Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, allow access to prices and the product range available.
Customers Northampton NN5 7UG are also able to construct their own price quotation that includes Telephone 01604 752424 any special price arrangements that have been negotiated with Email cosec@travisperkins.
or to the Companys registrars: Capita Registrars ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles Huddersfield, HD8 0GA of Association, the Company is allowed to use its website to publish Telephone 0871 664 0300 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday Friday statutory documents and communications to shareholders, such as calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM.
You can Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGM by going to our website at www.
travis Should your query relate to a pensions matter please email perkinsplc.
com see section called Investor Centre.
If you received pensions@travisperkins.
co. uk or if your query relates to a marketing a hard copy of this report in the post then you will not have consented matter please email marketing@travisperkins.
co. uk to this method of publication.
Should you now wish to consent to this method of publication, you should contact: FINANCIAL DIARY Annual General Meeting 17 May 2010 Capita Registrars, Announcement of interim results July 2010 Freepost Plus RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, Announcement of 2010 annual results February 2011 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham BR3 9ZA AGM CATERING ARRANGEMENTS By reducing the number of communications sent by post, it will not It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light luncheon only result in cost savings to the Company but also reduce the impact for shareholders following the A. G. M. and a buffet luncheon will be that the unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the available.
You need not notify the company in advance if you would environment.
Please note that if you consent to website publication, like lunch.
you will continue to be notified each time that the Company places a statutory communication on the website.
This notification will be sent INTERNET to you by post.
However, you may also choose to receive notifications There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information about by e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
If you wish to receive the Group and its principal brands, products and services at the these notifications by email, you should register at www.
com, and follow the instructions given below under the heading www.
com investor relations site Accessing the Share Portal.
co. uk Please telephone Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0391 within the www.
co. uk UK, calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open www.
co. uk from outside the UK if you have any queries.
Before consenting to receive documents and communications via www.
co. uk the website, shareholders should ensure that they have a computer www.
co. uk with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
co. uk Adobe Acrobat reader software may be obtained via the website www.
If you elect to receive notifications of the publication of the docuwww.
co. uk ments and communications on the website electronically, it will be www.
co. uk your responsibility to notify our registrars, Capita, of any subsequent These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line with the change in your e-mail address or other contact details.
If you are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your responsibility purpose you will require your unique investor code, which can be found to ensure that you may validly receive documents and communicaon your share certificate, proxy card or dividend tax voucher.
tions electronically either generally or in relation to any particular document or communication without the Company being required Share Dealing Services to comply with any governmental or regulatory procedures or any Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is similar formalities.
The Company may deny electronic access available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning 0871 to documents and communications relating to certain corporate 664 0346 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open actions in respect of those shareholders who it believes are resident 8am to 4.30pm, Monday Friday.
For the on-line service, Capitas in jurisdictions where it is advised that to provide such access would commission rates are 1% of the value of the deal minimum 20.00, or may be a breach of any legal or regulatory requirements.
maximum 75 and for the telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum 25.00, maximum 4.
The Companys obligation to provide shareholder documents to you 102.50. is satisfied when it transmits an electronic message.
The Company is not responsible for any failure in transmission for reasons beyond Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP its control any more than it is for postal failures.
In the event of the The Board has not proposed the payment of a final dividend for 2009.
Company becoming aware that an electronic communication to you Nevertheless, shareholders may wish to know about this plan, which has not been successfully transmitted, a further two attempts will allows you to use your dividends to buy further shares in Travis Perkins.
If the transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard copy of the For any shareholders who wish to re-invest dividend payments in the relevant notification will be posted to your registered address.
Company, a facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction with Capita Registrars.
Under this facility, cash dividends are used 5.
Your registration to receive electronic communications and your to purchase additional shares.
Shares are bought on the dividend relevant contact address details will stand until such time as the payment date at the then current market price.
Any cash left over Company receives alternative instructions from you by e-mail or in which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be carried forward writing.
and held without interest, in a Client Money bank account.
Any shareholder requiring further information should contact Capita on 0871 6.
The Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure no 664 0381 Calls cost 10p per minute plus any network extras from computer viruses are present in any electronic communication it within the UK: lines are open from 9am to 5.30 pm Monday Friday.
transmits, but the Company shall not be responsible for any loss If calling from overseas 44 0 208 639 3402.
Fax 0208 639 1023. or damage arising from the opening or use of any e-mail or attachEmail shares@capitaregistrars.
ments sent by the Company or on its behalf.
The Company recommends that shareholders subject all messages to computer virus Duplicate Share Register Accounts checking procedures.
Any electronic communication received by or If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it may be that on behalf of the Company, including the lodgement of an electronic your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our register of proxy form, that is found to contain any computer virus will not be members.
If that was not your intention you might consider merging accepted.
them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita who will be pleased to carry out your instructions.
The Company reserves the right, irrespective of your election, to revert to sending hard copy documentation by post whenever it Overseas Shareholders considers it necessary or desirable to do so.
Capita are now able to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can CAPITA REGISTRARS choose to receive payment directly into your bank account, or you can The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Capita, provide a be sent a draft in your local currency.
Further details are available from number of services that, as a shareholder, might be useful to you: Capita Registrars, Freepost Plus RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 9ZA: telephone UK: 0871 Registrars On-Line Service 664 0385 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras: lines By logging onto www.
com and following the prompts, are open to 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday Friday or 44 20 8639 shareholders can view and amend various details on their account.
3405 from outside the UK or by logging on to www.
Please note that you will need to register to use this service for which com international.
126 O T H E R S H A R E H O L D E R I N F O R M A T I O N 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from your stockbroker or other independent adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Travis Perkins plc, please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to the purchaser or transferee or to the Printed on revive 25 a paper containing 25% recycled waste and 75% virgin fibre, sourced from well managed forests.
person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Produced at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental certification.
The pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
17334 proof 3 1 4 10 D E S I G N E D B Y R W H D E S I G N C O N S U LTA N T S P H O T O G R A P H Y B Y C A LV I N H E W I T T A N D C H A R L E S W A R D P R I N T E D B Y J O N E S A N D PA L M E R t R A v i s p e R K i n s p l c 2 0 0 9 A n n u A l R e p o R t A n d A c c o u n t s TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 2009 AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts t R A v i s p e R K i n s p l c l o d g e W Ay h o u s e h A R l e s t o n e R o A d n o R t h A m p t o n n n 5 7 u g t e l e p h o n e 0 1 6 0 4 7 5 2 4 2 4 A leAdeR in buildeRs meRchAnting And home impRovement RetAiling 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
