NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions for its use are shown the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and from subsequently attending, voting and speaking at the Meeting in those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superceded.
should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exerIn order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, cise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for attaching to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member.
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an 3.
To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy be obtained by contacting the Registrars or you may photocopy the must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the Companys agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act appointments specified in the notice of meeting 11.45am on 13 May as your proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same CREST Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to envelope.
retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed 4.
The right to appoint a proxy under note 1 above does not apply to through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person other means.
and who have been nominated to receive communication from the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors and Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 5.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where appliauthority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy cable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in of such authority for the Annual General Meeting to be held at particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual can Road, Northampton, NN5 5BQ at 11.45 am on Monday 17 May be reviewed at www.
2010 and any adjournment s thereof must be returned to Capita The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated by 11.45 am on 13 May 2010.
Alternatively you may submit your Securities Regulations 2001. proxy form online by accessing the Shareholder portal at www.
In each case the proxy appointments must be received by the capitashareportal.
com, logging in and selecting the Proxy Voting Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communicathe meeting or any adjournment thereof.
tions, you will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your investor code which can be found on the enclosed 7.
Only those members entered on the register of members of the proxy form, your share certificate or dividend tax voucher, family Company as at 6.00 pm on 13 May 2010 shall be entitled to attend name and post code if resident in the UK.
or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do by using rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Reference to the register means the Issuer register of members proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, and the Operator register of members maintained in accordance under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appoint- 9.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the ment of proxies in paragraphs 1 to 6 above does not apply to a Registered Office of the Company during usual business hours on Nominated Person.
The rights described in these paragraphs can any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
from the date of this Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton Rugby Football Club from 11.15 a. m. on the day of 13.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corpothe meeting until the conclusion of the meeting: rate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of the same Copies of contracts of service of directors and non-executive powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual directors letters of appointment with the Company, or with any of member.
The register of directors interests kept by the Company 14.
Shareholders and their proxies will have the opportunity to ask A copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
When invited by the Chairman, if you A copy of the Articles of Association proposed to be adopted wish to ask a question, please wait for a Company representaunder Resolution 12. tive to bring you a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could A statement giving particulars of directors relevant transactions.
state your name before you ask your question.
Questions may not be answered at the Meeting if they are deemed not to be in the 10.
At 23 February 2010 being the latest practicable date before interests of the Company, or the good order of the meeting, would publication of this notice the issued share capital of the Company interfere unduly with the preparation of the meeting or involve the consisted of 208,637,557 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
disclosure of confidential information, or if the answer has already Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 February been given on a website.
The Chairman may also nominate a 2010 were 208,637,557.
Company representative to answer a specific question after the Meeting or refer the response to the Companys website.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
travisperhim her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, kinsplc.
asp?page home have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such N O T E S T O T H E N O T I C E O F A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 123 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
