STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to the corporate and financial information included on the Companys prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to other jurisdictions.
prepare the Parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Properly select and apply accounting policies: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner The management report, which is incorporated into the directors that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of information: the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and By order of the Board Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position G. I. Cooper P. N. Hampden Smith of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial stateChief Executive Finance Director ments comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible 23 February 2010 23 February 2010 70 S T A T E M E N T O F D I R E C T O R S R E S P O N S I B I L I T I E S 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
