Trinity Mirror plc 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Group consolidated accounts Independent auditors report to the Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: members of Trinity Mirror plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Trinity give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Mirror plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2010 which comprise 3 January 2010 and of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, by the European Union: and the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Opinion on other matters prescribed by the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companies Act 2006 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the Companys members those matters we are required to state to 53 weeks ended 3 January 2010 for which the financial statements them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Matters on which we are required to report we have formed.
by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report and auditors to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibility certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified on page 53, the directors are responsible for the preparation of by law are not made: or the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the we have not received all the information and explanations consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable we require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement contained within the corporate governance report in relation to going concern: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the corporate governance report relating to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Other matter assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have reported separately on the parent company financial the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and statements of Trinity Mirror plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 January adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting 2010 and on the information in the directors remuneration report estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the that is described as having been audited.
Panos Kakoullis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, UK 4 March 2010 Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
