68 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Accounting policies iv Business Performance Review The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect The following accounting policies have been applied consistently to all its future development, performance and position are set out in the years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
In addition, Note 25 sets out the The consolidated financial statements are presented in the Groups Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, presentational currency of Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
financial risks, financial instruments and hedging activities as well as its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
A Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements for the year ended v Funding and liquidity 30 September 2009 have been prepared and approved by the The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting position.
The two main sources of debt funding are the shareholder Standards as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
loan from TUI AG, which is 919m and is being repaid in instalments The consolidated financial statements were approved on over the period to April 2011 and the 910m of syndicated bank 30 November 2009. revolving credit facility which matures in June 2012.
On 25 September 2009 the Group also agreed an annually renewable 40m bonding and B Basis of preparation letter of credit facility.
In addition, on 1 October 2009, the Group i Parent Company offered 350m of senior unsecured convertible bonds due 2014.
The TUI Travel PLC the Company is a company incorporated and coupon has been set at 6.0% per annum, and the conversion price has domiciled in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 and been set at 349.3p per share, which represents a premium of 33.0% listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Registered Office of the over the volume weighted average price of TUI Travel PLCs ordinary Company is TUI Travel House, Crawley Business Quarter, Fleming Way, shares from launch to pricing.
The ratio of Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation, The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial Amortisation and operating lease Rentals EBITDAR to fixed charges statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
being the aggregate amount of interest and any other finance charges in respect of borrowings and including all payments under operating ii Underlying measures of profits and losses leases and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes The Group believes that underlying operating profit, underlying profit to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as before tax and underlying earnings per share provide additional well as being the main basis for the Groups credit facility covenants, guidance to statutory measures to help understand the underlying are currently well within the covenant limits.
Forecasts reviewed by the performance of the business during the financial year.
The term Board, including forecasts adjusted for significantly worse economic underlying is not defined under International Financial Reporting conditions, show continued compliance with these covenants.
It is a measure that is used by management to assess the is Earnings Before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation.
underlying performance of the business internally and is not intended For both covenants earnings are calculated on an underlying basis as to be a substitute measure for Adopted IFRSs GAAP measures.
The described in Note 1 B ii.
Group defines these underlying measures as follows: On the basis of its forecasts, both base case and adjusted as Underlying operating profit is operating profit or loss from continuing described above, and available facilities, the Board has concluded that operations stated before separately disclosed items Note 3, the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, impairment of goodwill and taxation on the Groups share of the C Basis of consolidation results of joint ventures and associates.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis other than derivative financial instruments, financial Underlying profit before tax is profit or loss from continuing instruments held for trading, financial instruments classified as operations before taxation Group and share of joint ventures and available for sale and liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments, associates, amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business which are stated at their fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal combinations, impairment of goodwill and separately disclosed items groups held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount included within both the operating result Note 3 and net financial and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company Underlying earnings used in the calculation of underlying earnings and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity per share is profit after tax from continuing operations excluding account the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, parent company financial statements present information about the impairment of goodwill and separately disclosed items included within Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
both the operating result Note 3 and net financial expenses Note 4 net of related taxation.
i Subsidiaries It should be noted that the definitions of underlying items being used Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when in these consolidated financial statements are those used by the the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial Group and may not be comparable with the term underlying as and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its defined by other companies within both the same sector or elsewhere.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial iii Separately disclosed items statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in information from the date that control commences until the date that managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or control ceases.
incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate Notes 3 and 4. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69 ii Joint ventures and associates D Foreign currency Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities whose activities the Group i Foreign currency transactions has the power to jointly control, established by contractual agreement.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign Associates are those entities in which the Group has the ability to exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets exercise significant influence, but not control, over the financial and and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at Groups share of the total recognised income and expense of joint that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date recognised in the income statement except for differences arising on that joint control or significant influence respectively commences until the retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of the the date that it ceases.
Associates and joint ventures are recorded net investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share which are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and of net assets of the entity including goodwill net of accumulated liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate, the carrying transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint were determined.
ii Foreign operations iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or income and expenses and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains arising from The revenues and expenses of overseas operations are translated transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the retranslation have been recognised directly in equity in the translation extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
reserve, a designated foreign exchange reserve, since 1 January 2007. iv Acquisition in stages Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary item When control is obtained in successive share purchases a step receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement acquisition, each significant transaction is accounted for separately of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are and the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation are stated at fair value when control is obtained.
The fair value of the and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities may be different at the date of each purchase transaction.
Any adjustment iii Net investment in foreign operations to those fair values relating to previously held interests of the acquirer The Group applies hedge accounting to foreign currency differences is accounted for as a revaluation.
arising between the functional currency of the foreign operation and the parent entitys functional currency Sterling regardless of whether v Contingent acquisition consideration the net investment is held directly or through an intermediate parent.
Contingent consideration is recognised when the payment amount becomes probable and the amount can be reliably measured.
The Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a financial purchase price is subsequently adjusted against goodwill or negative liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign goodwill as the estimate of the amount payable is revised.
operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense to the extent that the hedge is effective and are vi Non-current assets held for sale presented within equity in the translation reserve.
To the extent that The Group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if their carrying the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit or amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed of the than through continuing use.
To be classified as held for sale, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or assets must be available for immediate sale in their present condition, loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
subject only to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, and their sale must be highly probable.
Sale is considered to be E Financial instruments highly probable when management are committed to a plan to sell the i Financial assets assets and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the Financial assets are either classified as loans and receivables, available plan has been initiated, at a price that is reasonable in relation to their for sale financial assets, or financial assets at fair value through profit current fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be or loss.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade completed within one year from the date of classification.
Non-current receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative assets classified as held for sale are carried on the Groups balance financial instruments.
The Group determines the classification of its sheet at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognised to sell.
initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: www.
com 70 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Loans and receivables Derivatives Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in 1 E iii.
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Derecognition Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest The Group derecognises a financial liability when the contractual method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are obligations to pay the contractual cash flows on the financial liability recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised are discharged, cancelled or expire.
or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
iii Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Available for sale financial assets to foreign exchange, interest rate and fuel price risks arising from Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its assets that are not classified as loans and receivables or financial treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition, instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
or losses recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently reported in equity is included in the consolidated income statement.
The method of recognising the resulting gain Note 1 Y iv describes the basis on which fair value is determined.
or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain Cash and cash equivalents or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivatives not designated Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the consolidated Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral income statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, see part of the Groups cash management are included as a component Accounting Policy 1 F. of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
iv Share capital Derivatives Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in 1 E iii.
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share awards are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Derecognition The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights F Hedge accounting to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the rights to The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset in a transaction particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge or a hedge of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest in transferred financial fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a fair value hedge.
On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the ii Financial liabilities relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s, Financial liabilities are either classified as financial liabilities measured including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking at amortised cost, or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used to loss.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial as on an ongoing basis, whether the hedging instruments are expected liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, normally being the to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or transaction price plus, in the case of financial liabilities not at fair value cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The the hedge is designated, and whether the actual results of each hedge subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on their are within a range of 80-125%.
For a cash flow hedge of a forecast classification, as follows: transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost ultimately affect reported net income.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value.
For interestbearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities other than those at fair value through recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein profit or loss are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the are accounted for as described below: effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in interest and other revenues and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71 i Cash flow hedges G Revenue Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of Revenue represents the aggregate amount earned from inclusive the variability in cash flows arising from a recognised asset or liability, tours, scheduled and charter flying, provision of incoming agency or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any fair destination services, travel agency commission received and other value gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business.
directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge Revenue excludes intra-group transactions and is stated after the is recognised immediately within the consolidated income statement.
deduction of trade discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is reported gross of fixed charges which are a liability of the tour operator or When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition airline.
These include Air Passenger Duty and other per passenger of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated charges and levies, including the ATOL Protection Contribution in cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and is the UK.
included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the nonfinancial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction i Revenue recognition subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a Revenue is recognised in the income statement when the significant financial liability, the associated gains and losses that were recognised risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
directly in equity are reclassified into the consolidated income Travel agency commissions and other revenues received from the sale statement in the same period or periods during which the asset of third party product are recognised when they are earned, typically acquired or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
on receipt of final payment.
Revenue in respect of in-house product is all recognised on the date of departure.
Revenue from individual travel For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two modules directly booked by the customer with airlines, hotels and paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from incoming agencies is recognised when the customer departs or uses equity and recognised in the consolidated income statement in the the respective service.
same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or Prospective hedge testing is performed at the inception of the hedge possible return of goods.
relationship and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through comparison of the critical terms of the hedged forecast transaction ii Client monies received in advance deferred income and the hedging instrument.
Critical terms are the maturity, amount Client monies received at the balance sheet date relating to holidays and currency of the cash flows relating to the hedging instrument commencing and flights departing after the year end is deferred and and the forecast hedged transaction.
Retrospective hedge testing is included within trade and other payables.
performed at each reporting date principally using a dollar offset analysis, comparing the cumulative changes in the fair values of the iii Valuation of revenue forecast hedged transaction and the hedging instrument.
Where the Group acts as principal, revenue is stated at the contractual value of goods and services provided.
When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity Where the Group acts as agent and collects amounts on behalf of the revokes designation of the hedge relationship, hedge accounting is principal provider of goods or services, revenue is stated at the value discontinued prospectively.
If the hedged forecast transaction is still of the commissions earned and not the total transaction sales value.
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in Where the Group acts as intermediary between the service provider equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the and the end customer, revenue is presented on a net basis as the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to difference between the sales price to the customer and the cost of take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity the services purchased.
Businesses are identified as intermediaries is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
dependent on a number of criteria, principally including: the control ii Fair value hedges exercised over the provision of service, inventory risk, and customer Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge credit risk.
of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an iv Aircraft lease income unrecognised firm commitment, all changes in the fair value of the Operating lease rental incomes are recognised in operating income derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement.
as earned, on a straightline basis over the lease term.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged even if it H Expenses is normally carried at cost or amortised cost and any fair value gains i Operating lease payments or losses on remeasurement of the hedged risk are recognised Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income immediately in the income statement even if those gains would statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease.
Lease normally be recognised directly in equity.
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
com 72 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued ii Finance lease payments For cash-settled transactions, the resulting liability for the Group is Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charged to expenses at its fair value as at the date of the performance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance of the service by the beneficiary.
Until payment of this liability, the fair charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to value of the liability is remeasured at every reporting date and all produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance changes in the fair value are carried with an effect on results.
iv Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust iii Marketing and other direct sales costs Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust are Marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including those included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In particular, related to the production of brochures, are expensed when the benefit the trusts purchase of shares in the Company is debited directly in of the goods or services is made available to the Group.
In particular, equity to retained earnings.
brochure costs are expensed when the Group has access to the v Short term benefits related advertising or promotional material.
Short term employee benefits are measured on an undiscounted basis I Employee benefits and are expensed as the related service is provided.
i Defined contribution plans J Financial income and expenses Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are Financial income comprises interest income on funds invested recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets and changes in the ii Defined benefit plans fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans loss.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in profit future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service or loss on the date that the Groups right to receive payment is in current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine established, which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend its present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair date.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
value of any plan assets is deducted in calculating the overall liability.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, credit-rated bonds denominated in the currency of and having the unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of same maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using impairment losses recognised on financial assets.
All borrowing costs the projected unit credit method.
are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from K Taxation the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan which are Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is under the control of the Group.
recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is increased benefit relating to past services by employees is recognised recognised in equity.
as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the i Current tax average period until the benefits become vested.
To the extent that Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the in the income statement.
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur previous periods.
directly in equity through the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Either monthly or annual contributions are made ii Deferred tax to funded schemes.
Deferred tax is provided or recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying iii Share-based payment transactions amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and The Groups share award programmes allow certain Group employees the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary to acquire shares of the Company: these shares are awarded by the differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill Company.
For equity-settled transactions, the fair value of services is not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or measured by the fair value of the shares at the time awarded and is liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that in equity.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount employee becomes entitled to the awards.
of deferred tax asset recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, The fair value of the awards is measured using option valuation using the tax rate at which the asset or liability is expected to reverse models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the in future periods, based on tax laws enacted or substantively enacted awards were made.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted at the balance sheet date.
to reflect the actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture is due only to market-based performance conditions not meeting the threshold for vesting.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73 A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable P Intangible assets that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can i Goodwill be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no All business combinations are accounted for by applying the longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
L Dividends Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as jointly controlled entities and associates.
Goodwill represents the a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the difference between the fair value of consideration paid or payable and dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that liabilities acquired.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those statements.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to those cash generating M Earnings per share units expected to benefit from the business combination and is not The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data amortised but tested annually for impairment.
Impairment testing is for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit based on assets grouped at the lowest level at which goodwill is or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the monitored for internal management purposes.
In respect of joint weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the ventures and associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average the carrying amount of the investment in the joint venture or associate.
number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
If at the potential ordinary shares.
EPS measures for both continuing and balance sheet date, the amounts of fair values of the acquirees discontinued operations have been presented in accordance with identifiable assets and liabilities can only be established provisionally, IAS 33.
The Group also presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS then these values are used.
Any adjustments to these values are taken measure based on underlying earnings as defined in Note 1 B ii as adjustments to goodwill and must be recorded within 12 months of above.
Further details of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 33. the acquisition.
N Non-current assets held for sale Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised in the income IFRS 5 requires that a non-current asset or a disposal group statement upon acquisition.
containing a non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than ii Computer software and other intangible assets through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is Computer software consists of all software that is not an integral part of highly probable within one year.
the related computer hardware and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying iii Amortisation amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightline profit or loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent basis over the estimated useful economic life of each type of remeasurement.
intangible asset as follows: Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill Computer software 3 10 years and then to remaining applicable assets on a pro rata basis except no Brands 15 20 years loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets or Order book at date of acquisition Over the period until travel occurs employee benefit assets, which continue to be measured in Customer relationships Over the period during which value will be accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
obtained by the Group up to 15 years Certain assets liabilities are excluded from the measurement basis of Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
IFRS 5 including: deferred tax assets IAS 12 Income Taxes, assets arising from employee benefits IAS 19 Employee Benefits and Q Property, plant and equipment financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: i Owned assets Recognition and Measurement.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less O Investments accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Trade investments are classified as available for sale assets and are Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment included under non-current assets.
They are recorded at fair value with have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items movements in value taken to equity.
Any impairment to value is of property, plant and equipment.
recorded in the income statement.
ii Leased assets Short term investments in debt and equity securities which are held Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and for trading are classified as current assets and are stated at fair value, rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted for as set out in Note 1 H above.
com 74 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii Depreciation R Impairments Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straightline i Financial assets basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial The useful economic lives are as follows: asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated Freehold properties Up to 50 years future cash flows of that asset.
Short leasehold improvements Lease period or useful economic life if shorter An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset is calculated as the Owned aircraft Up to 18 years difference between its carrying amount and its recoverable amount.
Finance leased aircraft An impairment loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset is and equipment Lease period or useful economic calculated by reference to its fair value.
The recoverable amount of the life if shorter Groups receivables which are carried at amortised cost is calculated as Aircraft spares 12 years the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the Cruise ships 20 years original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed Yachts 5-15 years at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short Motor boats 15-24 years duration are not discounted.
Computer equipment including Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an retail computer equipment 3-5 years individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively Retail fixtures and fittings 8 years in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
Other assets 4 years All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Any cumulative The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset previously capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial The depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual values assets measured at amortised cost and available for sale financial are reassessed annually.
Revisions to useful economic lives and residual assets that are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in profit or values are accounted for prospectively from the date of change.
For available for sale financial assets that are equity securities, Assets under construction are not depreciated.
the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
iv Borrowing costs ii Non-financial assets In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group The carrying amount of the Groups non-financial assets, other than capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
such an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect to pre-delivery sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an v Sale and leaseback transactions asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The When a sale and leaseback results in a finance lease, any gain on the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is the greater sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term.
Any of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in loss on the sale is immediately recognised as an impairment loss when use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present the sale occurs.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, then any gain is assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the recognised immediately if the sale and leaseback terms are asset.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of demonstrably at fair value.
Otherwise, the sale and leaseback are assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of accounted for as follows: the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
If the sale price is below fair value then the gain or loss is recognised Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses immediately other than to the extent that a loss is compensated for recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to by future rentals at a below-market price, then the loss is deferred reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the cash and amortised over the period that the asset is expected to be used.
generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
If the sale price is above fair value, then any gain is deferred and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount of the assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference is recognised decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there immediately as a loss on the sale.
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 75 S Inventories U Minority interest Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the share of net assets attributable Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated to minority shareholders is disclosed as a separate component of costs incurred until the sale and the estimated variable costs required equity after share capital and reserves, although it is neither a financial to sell.
All inventories are written down individually where the net liability nor an equity instrument.
The consolidated income statement realisable value of inventories is lower than their carrying amounts.
discloses the amount of the result for the year attributable to The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the minority shareholders.
Where the Group has a written put option in respect of a minority interest and has an unavoidable obligation to purchase the T Provisions shareholding, the minority interest is recorded as a financial liability A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the at fair value, rather than being reported as a separate component of Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, equity.
No result is attributable to minority shareholders and instead it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to changes to the fair value of the financial liability are recorded at each settle the obligation and the outflow of economic benefits can be period end in the income statement within financial income or reliably estimated.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined financial expenses.
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money On purchase or sale of a minority interest shareholding held in a and the risks specific to the liability.
Group subsidiary, the Group recognises increases or decreases in its interest directly in equity.
i Maintenance provision for leased aircraft To reflect the legal obligations placed upon the Group under the terms V Related parties of certain operating leases, provision is made for the maintenance, For the purpose of these consolidated financial statements, parties overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability certain other components.
The provision is based on the present value directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant of total anticipated external costs over the useful economic life of the influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and published vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common manufacturers data.
The charge to the income statement is calculated control or common significant influence.
Related parties may be by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference individuals or other entities.
to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the W Segment reporting expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is over time and over a fleet.
The unwinding of discounted values is engaged either in providing related products or services business charged to the income statement as a financial expense.
segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is risks and returns that are different from those of other segments.
capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled Segment information is presented in respect of the Groups business major overhaul.
The Groups primary format for segment reporting is based on business segments.
As described in Note 2, all ii Restructuring provision items are allocated to segments except corporate costs, net financial A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has expenses, and corporate assets and liabilities.
approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
X Use of estimates Future operating costs are not provided for.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of iii Onerous contracts accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
benefits to be derived by the Group from the contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, the Details of critical judgements, significant estimates and assumptions Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with are disclosed in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial that contract.
The key estimates and judgements are described in Note 31. www.
com 76 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Y Determination of fair values ix Share-based payments A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require The fair value of the shares awarded is measured using option the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon assets and liabilities.
Fair values have been determined for which the awards were made.
The valuation basis is identical whether measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following the awards will be settled in cash or shares.
When applicable, further information about the assumptions Z New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted made in determining fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to IFRS 8 Operating Segments has been endorsed by the European that asset or liability.
Union and will be effective for the year ending 30 September 2010. i Property, plant and equipment IFRS 8 introduces the management approach to segment reporting The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognised as a result and will require presentation and disclosure of segment information of a business combination is based on market values.
The market value to be based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing performance and to allocate resources to them.
Currently the Group seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein presents segment information in respect of its business segments the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without Note 2 and will continue to do so under the new standard.
The market value of items of plant, equipment, fixtures Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have and fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar items.
on the disclosures presented for each segment.
ii Intangible assets IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations supersedes IFRS 3 2004 The fair value of intangible assets recognised as a result of a business Business Combinations and has been endorsed by the European combination, including brands, customer relationships and the Union and will be effective for all acquisitions completing on or after customer order book at the date of acquisition, is valued by reference 1 October 2009.
There will be no retrospective application.
to external market values or income based methods.
Income based IFRS 3 2008 changes the treatment of incidental acquisition methods estimate the future economic benefits to be derived from expenses, the treatment of deferred consideration payments which ownership of the asset by identifying, quantifying and separating cash are contingent on continued employment, the measurement of flows attributable to the asset and capitalising their present value.
consideration payable, and the treatment of changes to the amount iii Inventories of consideration payable.
It is likely to lead to items being expensed in The fair value of inventories acquired in a business combination is the income statement which would previously have been included as determined based on the estimated selling price in the ordinary part of the cost of investment in an acquired business.
The financial course of business less the estimated costs of completion and sale, impact of this revised standard will be determined by the prospective and a reasonable profit margin based on the effort required to acquisitions undertaken by the Group.
complete and sell the inventories.
The following standards are also endorsed by the European Union but are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial iv Investments in equity and debt securities statements in future years: The fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets is determined by reference to their IAS 1 2008 Presentation of Financial Statements has been quoted closing bid price at the reporting date, where available.
The fair amended and will be applicable for the first time for the year ending value of held to maturity investments is determined on initial recognition 30 September 2010.
The changes will have a presentational impact and thereafter for disclosure purposes only.
only and will not affect the recognition or measurement of items in the financial statements.
v Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently IAS 32 2008 Financial Instruments: Presentation clarifies the recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method as treatment of puttable financial instruments and will be effective for reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An the first time for the year ending 30 September 2010. allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there is IAS 39 2008 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all is effective for the first time for the year ended 30 September 2010. amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The The revised standard allows reclassification of instruments into and amount of allowance is the difference between the assets carrying out of at fair value through profit and loss in certain circumstances amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
and clarifies the designation of hedges at a segment level.
vi Trade payables IFRS 7 2008 Financial Instruments: Disclosure is effective for the Trade payables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently first time for the year ending 30 September 2010 and introduces recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
further disclosure requirements in respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
vii Derivatives The fair value of foreign currency contracts, fuel forward contracts and The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other option contracts is their forward market price at the balance sheet date, new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the based on external valuations or internal valuations using market data.
European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
viii Non-derivative financial liabilities Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
For finance leases the market rate of interest is determined by reference to similar lease agreements.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 77 2.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented initially by the Groups business sectors the primary format and secondly by geographic region.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise corporate costs, net financial expenses, and corporate assets and liabilities.
A Sector analysis The Sector analysis is based on the Groups management and reporting structure.
A detailed explanation of each Sector is included in the Business Performance Review.
Specialist & Joint Mainstream Sector Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Eliminations Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group Year ended 30 September 2009 m m m m m m m m m m Revenue Total revenue 4,829 4,302 2,671 11,802 825 816 738 318 13,863 Inter segment revenue 33 80 19 132 186 318 External revenue: continuing operations 4,796 4,151 2,652 11,599 816 758 549 13,722 acquired operations 71 71 9 58 3 141 Total external revenue 4,796 4,222 2,652 11,670 825 816 552 13,863 Operating profit loss 18 115 124 9 18 6 36 9 41 37 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 120 3 24 813 11 56 Separately disclosed items 47 71 154 272 5 33 13 3 14 340 Impairment of goodwill 7 7 Taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates 3 3 Underlying operating profit loss 66 206 33 305 31 59 60 15 27 443 Analysed as: Continuing operations 66 204 33 303 30 54 60 15 27 435 Acquired operations 2 215 8 443 Net financial expenses excluding separately disclosed items Note 4 77 Underlying profit before tax 366 Specialist & Joint Mainstream Sector Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Eliminations Total Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group Year ended 30 September 2008 m m m m m m m m m m Revenue Total revenue 4,714 4,532 2,753 11,999 819 780 701 367 13,932 Inter segment revenue 12 155 1 168 199 367 External revenue: continuing operations 4,702 4,377 2,752 11,831 808 706 495 13,840 acquired operations 11 74 7 92 Total external revenue 4,702 4,377 2,752 11,831 819 780 502 13,932 Operating loss profit 113 104 20 197 1 4 42 12 38 184 Amortisation of business combination intangibles 1 58 2 61 8 8 10 87 Separately disclosed items 62 224 15 301 17 46 5 11 380 Impairment of goodwill 112 112 112 Taxation on profits of joint ventures and associates 3 3 Underlying operating profit loss 62 178 37 277 26 50 57 15 27 398 Analysed as: Continuing operations 62 178 37 277 26 42 57 15 27 390 Acquired operations 8 8 398 Net financial expenses excluding separately disclosed items Note 4 79 Underlying profit before tax 319 www.
com 78 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Specialist & Joint Mainstream Sector Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Total 30 September 2009 and Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group the year then ended m m m m m m m m m m Balance sheet Segment assets 1,272 3,701 1,223 6,196 631 979 1,405 112 174 9,149 Segment liabilities 1,574 2,202 978 4,754 213 318 490 1,088 6,863 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 32 83 59 174 5 35 16 4 234 Total depreciation of PPE and amortisation 39 101 74 214 12 34 27 287 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 7 7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 124 124 1 125 Specialist & Joint Mainstream Sector Total Emerging Accommodation Ventures Central Northern Western Mainstream Markets Activity & Destinations and Total 30 September 2008 and Europe Region Europe Sector Sector Sector Sector Associates Corporate Group the year then ended m m m m m m m m m m Balance sheet Segment assets 1,231 3,636 1,184 6,051 598 814 1,252 114 498 9,327 Segment liabilities 1,610 1,975 934 4,519 266 279 469 1,198 6,731 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 20 103 37 160 4 26 18 208 Total depreciation of PPE and amortisation 45 173 60 278 10 21 22 331 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 112 112 2 114 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 5 18 23 8 31 The segmental assets and liabilities above do not include intercompany balances or investments that are eliminated at Group level, and therefore the analysis does not necessarily represent the net equity positions of the Sectors as if they were stand-alone entities.
Assets shown under Corporate as at September 2009 includes a 710m negative cash balance 2008: nil which is offset by positive cash balances in other Sectors as part of the Groups cash pooling facility.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to plant, property and equipment Note 11 and computer software and licences Note 10.
B Geographical analysis of business In presenting information on the basis of secondary geographic segments, segment revenue is based on the geographic location of the customer that generated that revenue.
Segment assets and capital expenditure are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Other Europe is defined as Continental Europe and Eire excluding UK, Germany and France.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 79 3.
Separately disclosed items Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Merger related integration costs 143 164 Restructuring expenses 40 65 Aircraft 157 151 Total 340 380 Separately disclosed items within the operating profit loss are included within the income statement as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Revenue 12 Cost of sales 209 228 Administrative expenses 131 140 Total 340 380 Merger related integration costs These relate primarily to the costs of integration of the UK businesses.
The majority of costs arise from the integration of First Choice and Thomson in the UK, and in particular from the formation of one airline and an integrated retail estate.
A combined Mainstream UK head office has been established in Luton.
Costs also arise from bringing together former Thomson Specialist businesses with the former First Choice Activity and Specialist Sectors, notably Ski and UK specialist brands.
In the Accommodation & Destinations Sector separate First Choice and TUI Tourism incoming agencies have been combined in a number of key destinations, notably Spain.
Costs include amounts paid or provided for redundancy and integration remuneration costs, including the cost of the Value Creation Share Plan and rolled over First Choice share awards Note 5 D, property closures and onerous lease obligations, as well as professional fees relating to the integration project.
IFRS 3 business combination fair value adjustments in respect of First Choice customer deposits held at 3 September 2007 reduced deferred income by 14m at that date, with a corresponding reduction in statutory revenues for the year ended 30 September 2008 and the period ended 30 September 2007.
This amount is included within separately disclosed integration items for the year ended 30 September 2008 in order to better present the underlying trading performance of the Group in that year.
Restructuring expenses Costs incurred in the year ended 30 September 2009 relate to restructuring programmes which are not related to the business combination of First Choice and the TUI Tourism businesses.
The principal items are 16m relating to the closure of the Sunsail Clubs in Turkey and the Caribbean announced in March 2009, 13m for the ongoing restructuring of the French tour operator, Nouvelles Frontires, and 8m for restructuring the German source market as a consequence of the sale of TUIflys city charter operation to Air Berlin PLC.
Costs incurred in the year ended 30 September 2008 relate to restructuring programmes that were already underway in both the First Choice and TUI Tourism businesses prior to the business combination as well as subsequent restructuring activities across all Sectors.
Costs also related to the integration of acquired businesses into the Group.
Principal restructuring projects included the integration of the Sunsail and The Moorings businesses and the restructuring of Le Boat in TUI Marine, the rationalisation of the Nouvelles Frontires tour operator product and the Corsair scheduled flying programme in France and an impairment charge in respect of the Thomson Alfresco assets.
Aircraft Aircraft costs relate to the continuing restructuring of the aircraft fleet.
In the year ended 30 September 2009 there is a 124m impairment charge principally in respect of asset write downs of Boeing 747s operated by Corsair Note 11.
Costs of 32m were incurred relating to the transaction to sell TUIflys city charter business to Air Berlin PLC.
These costs include the income statement charge from discontinued hedge accounting on fuel and currency hedges which are no longer required, various contract cancellation penalties as well as legal and professional fees.
Foreign exchange losses on aircraft order book hedging of 16m have been offset by a gain of 23m from discontinued hedge accounting on the 10 Boeing 787 orders which have been cancelled, further details of which are set out in Note 25 I.
Net gains arising on the sale and leaseback of aircraft were 4m.
1m has been charged relating to the carrying value of aircraft held for sale Note 18.
In the year ended 30 September 2008, costs principally include sale and leaseback losses of 102m and write-downs on aircraft held for sale of 23m Note 11.
Other items include fuel and related currency option premium costs and losses on aircraft order book hedging Note 25 I, adjustments to prior period maintenance provision assumptions and other fleet reorganisation costs.
com 80 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Net financial expenses Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Financial income Bank interest receivable 6 42 Interest on pension scheme assets 64 68 Interest receivable in respect of loans to parent 4 Other financial income 2 8 Total 72 122 Financial expenses Bank interest payable on loans and overdrafts 11 45 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 81 72 Interest payable in respect of loans from parent 42 67 Finance lease charges on leases 10 12 Unwinding of discount on provisions 5 4 Other financial expenses 12 5 Total 161 205 Net financial expenses 89 83 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Net financial expenses as above 89 83 Less separately disclosed financial expenses 12 4 Net underlying financial expenses 77 79 The separately disclosed financial expenses relate to non debt items including the revaluation of a put option written by the Group in respect of a minority shareholder of LTUR Tourismus AG.
Further details are given in Note 19.
Employees Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 A Average number of employees Number Number By Sector Mainstream Sector 34,913 36,382 Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector 1,607 1,864 Activity Sector 4,659 4,199 Accommodation & Destinations Sector 7,673 6,951 Corporate 611 605 Total 49,463 50,001 The 2008 comparative numbers have been adjusted to ensure that they are in alignment with a revised method of allocating headcount to the various Sectors.
There is no change to the total number of employees.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 B Staff costs m m Wages and salaries 1,293 1,263 Social security costs 234 216 Pension costs 47 55 Share-based payments Note 5 D 17 15 Total 1,591 1,549 Included within wages and salaries are 65m 2008: 82m of redundancy and integration costs.
These related staff costs are included within separately disclosed items Note 3. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 81 C Pension costs The Group operates pension schemes for employees eligible and wishing to participate in the schemes.
These comprise both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Pension obligations vary reflecting the different legal and market conditions in each country of operation.
Defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to private and state-run organisations, whilst defined benefit schemes comprise both funded and unfunded schemes.
The assets of all the funded defined benefit schemes are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors Current contributions are recognised as an expense in the year, and once paid the Group has no further liability.
Pension costs of 20m 2008: 25m relating to defined contribution schemes were charged to the income statement.
Defined benefit pension schemes The movement of defined benefit pension obligations and assets is detailed below, summarised as UK, Germany and Other.
Other includes funded schemes in Ireland, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Norway, whilst the main unfunded arrangements are in Austria and France.
Almost all UK schemes are funded whilst German schemes are unfunded.
The principal funded schemes in the UK are shown in the table below.
These are closed to new members, with the exception of existing employees working towards their entry qualification date: Date of last full Average employee Scheme name actuarial valuation Average Group contribution rate contribution rate Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme 31 March 2006 37.9% plus 46.3m per annum 9.6% TUI Pension Scheme UK 31 March 2005 11.8% plus 16.4m per annum 5.3% Air 2000 Limited Retirement Benefits Scheme 1 November 2006 26.4% plus 1.4m per annum 9.8% Unijet Group Plc Final Salary Scheme 1 November 2006 24.7% plus 1.3m per annum 10.0% Where there is more than a single class of membership, contribution rates reflect weighted average values within the scheme.
Contribution rates are stated before adjustment for salary sacrifice arrangements where applicable.
The principal unfunded schemes in Germany are shown below.
These were all subject to a full actuarial valuation within three months preceding the balance sheet date: Scheme name Status Versorgungsordnung Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Open to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Deutschland GmbH Closed to new members Versorgungsordnung TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Closed to new members Valuations of the schemes are made by qualified actuaries using market-based valuations for the assets and the projected unit method for the liabilities.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains or losses in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and liabilities in each territory have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 1 4 UK per annum Germany per annum Other per annum 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 %% % % % % Inflation 3.2 3.6 1.8 N A 1.9 N A 2 2 3 3 Salary inflation 4.2 5.1 2.5 2.1-3.5 2.9 0.0-2.0 Discount Rate 5.5 6.9 5.25 6.75 4.8 4.1 1 Pension increases in the UK Schemes reflect the general inflation assumption, subject to minimum and maximum increase limits.
2 4.2% 2008: 5.1% is applicable across all UK Schemes with the exception of the Britannia Airways Limited Superannuation and Life Assurance Scheme which has assumed salary inflation of 3.7% plus 0.8% 2008: 4.6% plus 0.8% to reflect annual service increments.
3 In Germany and Other the prior year salary inflation assumption is a percentage increment relative to inflation.
4 The assumptions for Other are a weighted average.
com 82 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The mortality assumptions underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for each territory are set out in the tables below.
The mortality assumptions are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each territory: 2009 2008 UK life expectancy weighted average Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.9 22.9 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.2 24.1 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 25.2 25.3 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 26.4 26.3 2009 2008 Germany life expectancy Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.2 18.0 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.9 20.7 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.3 22.1 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.9 24.7 2009 2008 Other life expectancy weighted average Years Years Males Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.8 18.8 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 20.2 20.0 Females Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 21.8 21.7 Life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 22.5 22.4 The fair value of assets of the schemes in each territory are set out below: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Equities 457 427 46 38 503 465 Government debt 210 153 37 33 247 186 Corporate bonds 129 115 21 16 150 131 Property 15 15 1 1 16 16 Cash and cash equivalents 45 82 1 46 82 Other 86 18 31 26 117 44 Total 942 810 137 114 1,079 924 The expected rates of return on each category of assets in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 % % % % % % Equities 7.8 8.2 N A N A 8.0 8.0 Government debt 4.1 4.7 N A N A 4.2 4.3 Corporate bonds 5.5 7.3 N A N A 3.8 4.3 Property 6.0 8.2 N A N A 5.8 6.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 5.0 N A N A 0.5 N A Other 7.4 5.0 N A N A 2.5 2.5-4.7 Overall expected rate of return 6.2 7.0 N A N A 5.1 5.1 The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes investment portfolio.
The fair values of the schemes assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 83 Changes in the fair value of scheme assets in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 810 891 114 103 924 994 Expected return on scheme assets 58 62 6 6 64 68 Company contributions 86 69 6 2 92 71 Member contributions 6 6 1 1 7 7 Benefits paid 55 40 6 3 61 43 Experience gains losses 37 178 3 15 34 193 Amounts arising from transfers 4 4 Foreign exchange 19 16 19 16 Balance at end of year 942 810 137 114 1,079 924 Actual return on scheme assets 95 116 3 9 98 125 Employer contributions in the next year are expected to be 89m in respect of the UK and 5m in respect of Other.
The composition of the fair value of scheme assets in each territory is as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Schemes with surplus of assets 2 2 10 91 12 93 Schemes with deficit of assets 940 808 127 23 1,067 831 Total 942 810 137 114 1,079 924 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 1,015 1,144 50 48 113 97 1,178 1,289 Reclassification 18 18 Current service cost 20 25 3 2 4 4 27 31 Interest cost on obligation 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72 Benefits paid 55 40 3 2 8 4 66 46 Member contributions 6 6 1 1 7 7 Experience losses gains 272 184 13 8 20 5 305 197 Settlement and curtailment 1 1 Amounts arising from transfers 1 1 2 1 3 Foreign exchange 10 6 19 14 29 20 Balance at end of year 1,327 1,015 97 50 156 113 1,580 1,178 The reclassification within Germany relates to flight crew early retirement benefits which were previously disclosed in accruals.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement for the years ended 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008 for each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Current service cost 20 25 3 2 4 4 27 31 Gains on curtailments and settlements 1 1 Interest on defined benefit pension scheme obligation 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme 58 62 6 6 64 68 Total 31 27 8 5 5 2 44 34 www.
com 84 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued These amounts are included within the following expense income categories in the consolidated income statement: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Cost of sales 10 15 2 1 3 2 15 18 Administrative expenses 10 10 1 1 1 1 12 12 Financial expenses 69 64 5 3 7 5 81 72 Financial income 58 62 6 6 64 68 Total 31 27 8 5 5 2 44 34 The amounts recognised directly in equity for the year ended 30 September 2009 and for the year ended 30 September 2008 for each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Cumulative losses gains brought forward 204 210 8 1 10 195 200 Losses gains recognised during the year 235 6 13 8 23 10 271 4 Foreign exchange 2 1 2 1 Cumulative losses gains carried forward 439 204 5 8 24 1 468 195 Trend analysis information in respect of the UK, Germany and Other territories is as follows: UK 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 UK balance sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 942 810 891 781 698 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,327 1,015 1,144 1,125 1,181 Deficit 385 205 253 344 483 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 UK experience adjustments m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme assets 37 178 7 11 69 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 272 184 95 108 240 Germany 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Germany balance sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets Present value of scheme liabilities 97 50 48 53 49 Deficit 97 50 48 53 49 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Germany experience adjustments m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme assets Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 13 8 11 1 2 www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85 Other 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Other balance sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 137 114 103 91 77 Present value of scheme liabilities 156 113 97 87 80 Deficit surplus 19 164 3 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Other experience adjustments m m m m m Experience loss gain on scheme assets 3 15 1 3 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 20 51410 4 Total 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 All Territories balance sheet m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 1,079 924 994 872 775 Present value of scheme liabilities 1,580 1,178 1,289 1,265 1,310 Deficit 501 254 295 393 535 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 All Territories experience adjustments m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme assets 34 193 8 11 72 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 305 197 120 117 246 The movement in the net deficit for pensions is as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 205 253 50 48 2 8 253 293 Reclassification 18 18 Provisions made during the year 31 8 5 5 2 44 7 Provisions used during the year 86 42 3 2 8 2 97 46 Amounts arising from transfers in and out 1 1 2 1 1 Actuarial gain loss recognised in equity 235 6 13 8 23 10 271 4 Foreign exchange 10 6 2 10 4 Balance at end of year 385 205 97 50 18 2 500 253 The reclassification within Germany relates to flight crew early retirement benefits which were previously disclosed in accruals.
com 86 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and scheme assets to values recognised in the Balance Sheet: UK Germany Other Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 1,326 1,014 139 100 1,465 1,114 Fair value of scheme assets 942 810 137 114 1,079 924 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 1 1 97 50 17 13 115 64 385 205 97 50 19 1 501 254 Unrecognised past service cost 1 1 1 1 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligation 385 205 97 50 18 2 500 253 Analysed as: Retirement benefit non-current assets 1 17 1 17 Retirement benefit current liabilities 3 2 3 2 Retirement benefit non-current liabilities 385 205 94 48 19 15 498 268 Total 385 205 97 50 18 2 500 253 The sensitivity of the fair value of the defined pension deficit to the key financial and demographic assumptions is illustrated below.
UK Germany Other Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m Decrease in deficit from increasing discount rate by 0.25% 59 6 7 72 Increase in deficit from reducing discount rate by 0.25% 6277 76 Increase in deficit from increasing all life expectancies by 1 year 3874 49 D Share award schemes The Company operates three principal share award schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The schemes are the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS and the Value Creation Synergy Plan VCSP.
All three schemes are described in the Remuneration Report along with the relevant vesting criteria.
At 30 September 2009 the shares allocated and outstanding in respect of ordinary shares, were as follows: Share award scheme Number of shares Date due to vest Performance Share Plan 425,739 13 February 2010 1,208,158 13 February 2010 1,076,195 13 February 2010 1,822,352 13 September 2010 618,046 19 December 2010 2,848,557 19 December 2010 131,840 19 May 2011 1,045,662 28 November 2011 6,341,589 28 November 2011 Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 846,090 13 February 2010 2,642,069 19 December 2010 4,681,760 28 November 2011 Value Creation Synergy Plan 1,926,629 28 November 2010 Total 25,614,686 The number of share awards at the beginning and end of the year is as follows: Number of awards 30 September 2009 Outstanding at beginning of the year excluding deferred shares 14,540,872 Forfeited during the year 1,481,168 Exercised during the year 2,412,082 Granted during the year 14,967,064 Outstanding at the end of the year 25,614,686 In addition to the above shares, there are 1,830,960 2008: 714,937 deferred shares outstanding in relation to the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme.
These are due to vest between 19 December 2010 and 28 November 2011. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87 No material awards have been made to date under the Groups HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee share plan.
The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted during the year is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares awarded.
The fair value at the date the shares were awarded has been estimated using a binomial methodology for all schemes except where there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting, in which case a Monte Carlo simulation was used.
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 2009 2008 2007 Information relating to fair values of shares awarded Fair value at measurement date 1.34-1.82 1.05-2.42 1.09-2.71 Share price 2.05 2.51-2.70 2.60-2.86 Expected volatility 44.9% 30.4%-34.8% 25.7%-28.4% Award life 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividends 3.8% 3.6% 3.8% Risk free interest rate 2.73% 4.52%-4.75% 5.05%-5.35% Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting.
Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility indicated by publicly available information.
Shares were awarded under a service condition.
Employee expenses for the year Employee expenses for the current year and prior period relating to share-based schemes are: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Shares awarded in 2006 2 Shares awarded in 2007 4 6 Shares awarded in 2008 5 6 Shares awarded in 2009 7 Equity-settled 16 14 Expense arising for share appreciation rights 1 1 Total 17 15 Included in the charge for equity awards made in 2009 is 3m relating to the VCSP.
The shares this charge corresponds to will be awarded after the date of these accounts.
Of the 17m total employee expenses relating to share-based schemes incurred in the year ended 30 September 2009, 6m 2008: 9m is included within separately disclosed items Note 3 as relating to specific remuneration incurred for post-merger integration.
The future estimated expense for share award schemes outstanding at 30 September is: 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m To be incurred within one year 16 13 To be incurred after more than one year 9 11 Total 25 24 At 30 September 2009, 10,842,908 shares 2008: 11,875,944 shares were held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
E Remuneration of Directors Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Emoluments 10 12 Pensions and other retirement benefits 1 1 Total 11 13 Further information is provided in the Remuneration Report.
com 88 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Income, expenses and auditors remuneration Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 Included in the consolidated income statement for the year are the following credits charges: m m Operating lease income, aircraft 18 6 Operating lease rentals, land and buildings 163 167 Operating lease rentals, aircraft and other equipment 408 327 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 184 206 Amortisation of intangible assets 103 125 Charge for share-based payments 17 15 Profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 12 71 Gain loss on foreign currency retranslation 23 26 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 7 114 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 125 31 Operating lease rentals, land and buildings, includes 8m 2008: 19m of costs included in separately disclosed items Note 3 as provisions for onerous leases, primarily related to the closure of Sunsail Clubs in Turkey 4m and integration of the UK Thomson First Choice retail estate 4m.
Also within separately disclosed items is 1m of costs in relation to aircraft leases.
In addition to the operating lease rentals disclosed above, charges of 71m 2008: 77m were incurred in respect of hotel accommodation rentals which are disclosed as operating leases under IFRIC 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Auditors remuneration Auditors remuneration for these financial statements and other Group subsidiary financial statements pursuant to legislation 2 2 Other services pursuant to legislation including regulatory reporting 1 1 Other services 1 1 Auditors remuneration refers to fees paid to the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and its associates and does not include fees paid to other auditors who audit subsidiaries of the Group.
Other services are principally in respect of defined benefit pension scheme advice and tax compliance work in respect of certain overseas subsidiaries.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 89 7.
Taxation The tax credit charge can be summarised as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 i Analysis of credit charge in the year m m Current tax charge UK corporation tax on loss for the year 21 Non-UK tax on loss for the year 41 54 Adjustments in respect of previous years 3 1 17 55 Deferred tax credit Origination and reversal of timing differences: Current year UK 5 43 Current year non-UK 43 12 Adjustments in respect of previous years 11 59 55 Total income tax credit in consolidated income statement 42 ii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax credit for the year is higher 2008: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 29%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 m % m % Loss before tax reported in the consolidated income statement 52 267 Less share of profit in joint ventures and associates Note 12 9 12 61 279 Income tax on loss before tax excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates at the standard rate of UK tax of 28% 2008: 29% 17 28 81 29 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3 5 39 14 Income not taxable 4 6 Utilisation non-utilisation of tax losses 1 2 44 16 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 8 13 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 1 2 3 1 Adjustments to taxation in respect of previous periods 14 23 1 Total income tax credit in consolidated income statement 42 69 The underlying effective rate of taxation for the year ended 30 September 2009 is calculated based on the underlying profit before tax excluding separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3 business combination intangibles and goodwill impairment charges and is calculated at 28%.
The actual tax rate of 69% differs from the underlying effective tax rate due to the tax effect of separately disclosed items, amortisation of IFRS 3 business combination intangibles, goodwill impairment charges and the recognition in the current year of deferred tax assets on losses from prior years, due to a greater degree of certainty in the timing and method of their utilisation.
iii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity The following taxation credit charge has been recognised directly in equity within the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Cash flow hedges 39 58 Defined benefit pension plans 65 4 Other 1 Total 105 62 www.
com 90 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Discontinued operation The business of Socit dInvestissement Arien S. A. trading as Jet4You, is the Groups airline operation in Morocco and has been presented as a discontinued operation as it was acquired on 30 June 2008 exclusively with a view to its subsequent resale.
The business is also presented as a disposal group held for sale Note 18.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Revenue 80 26 Operating costs 86 25 Loss before tax of discontinued operation 6 1 Tax 1 Loss after tax of discontinued operation 6 Provision for loss on disposal 8 Loss for the year from discontinued operation 14 The provision for loss on disposal is based on the Directors assessment of the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group based on current sale negotiations.
Dividends The following dividends relate to ordinary shares which have been deducted from equity in the year: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Pence 2009 2008 per share m m Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2007 Interim dividend paid September 2007 2.5 Initial interim dividend paid April 2008 5.9 65 8.4 65 Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2008 Interim dividend paid October 2008 2.8 31 Final dividend paid April 2009 6.9 76 9.7 107 The interim dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2009 of 3.0p per share was paid on 1 October 2009 and this dividend of 33m will be recognised as a deduction from equity in the year ending 30 September 2010.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 7.7p per share 2008: final dividend of 6.9p per share payable on 1 April 2010 to the holders of relevant shares on the register at 12 March 2010.
The final proposed dividend amounts to 85m and will, after approval by shareholders, be recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2010.
The final ordinary dividend of 7.7p per share, together with the interim dividend of 3.0p per share, makes a total dividend of 10.7p per share relating to the year ended 30 September 2009.
A dividend reinvestment plan is in operation.
Those shareholders who have not elected to participate in this plan, and who would like to participate with respect to the 2009 final dividend, may do so by contacting Equiniti direct on 0871 384 2030.
The last day for election for the final proposed dividend is 18 March 2010 and any requests should be made in good time ahead of that date.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 91 10.
Intangible assets Customer Computer Software in Goodwill Brands relationships software Licences development Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2007 3,883 362 161 270 43 4 133 4,856 Additions 2 1 34 3 18 58 Acquisition through business combinations 82 30 23 6 3 144 Disposals 3 1 1 1 4 10 Foreign exchange 230 23 19 6 6 2 286 At 30 September 2008 4,194 415 203 309 57 18 138 5,334 Additions 3 55 4 23 85 Acquisition through business combinations 62 21 83 Disposals 1 15 2 4 22 Reclassification to assets held for sale 17 21 14 3 4 1 60 Foreign exchange 288 26 23 19 5 4 365 Reclassification of asset class 30 18 12 At 30 September 2009 4,530 441 211 395 42 29 137 5,785 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 October 2007 420 2 2 180 27 8 639 Amortisation for the year 20 14 38 4 49 125 Impairment loss 112 2 114 Disposals 1 1 2 Foreign exchange 23 1 1 3 1 29 At 30 September 2008 555 23 16 218 35 58 905 Amortisation for the year 25 17 47 4 10 103 Impairment loss 7 7 Disposals 14 2 3 19 Reclassification to assets held for sale 2222 8 Foreign exchange 41 2 3 14 60 Reclassification of asset class 1 15 16 At 30 September 2009 603 48 35 278 19 65 1,048 Net book value At 1 October 2007 3,463 360 159 90 16 4 125 4,217 At 30 September 2008 3,639 392 187 91 22 18 80 4,429 At 30 September 2009 3,927 393 176 117 23 29 72 4,737 Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
The goodwill impairment loss incurred in 2009 relates to Sunsail Clubs hotel operations in Turkey and Antigua which were closed during the year whilst the impairment losses incurred in 2008 relate primarily to TUIfly, the Groups airline in Germany.
Both impairment charges are disclosed within administrative expenses and shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles totalling 56m 2008: 87m shown on the face of the consolidated income statement relates primarily to the amortisation of brands, the order book shown within other above and customer relationships.
The remaining useful economic life of these assets is up to 18 years.
Amortisation of business combination intangibles and depreciation combined with amortisation of other intangible assets is disclosed by segment in Note 2.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by segment is also disclosed in Note 2. www.
com 92 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each principal cash generating unit CGU are as follows: 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 CGU Sector m m UK and Ireland Mainstream Northern Region 1,507 1,501 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation & Destinations 671 547 Germany Mainstream Central Europe Region 406 352 Nordics Mainstream Northern Region 273 243 Marmara & Nouvelles Frontires Mainstream Western Europe 230 200 Multiple CGUs All Sectors 861 805 Total goodwill 3,948 3,648 Of which: Goodwill included within intangible assets 3,927 3,639 Goodwill included in assets held for sale Note 18 21 9 3,948 3,648 Goodwill included in assets held for sale principally relates to the Canadian business and Jet4You.
Once every year or more frequently if events or a change in the economic environment indicate a risk of impairment, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to its CGUs as required by IAS 36: Impairment of assets.
The recoverable value of goodwill for all CGUs has been determined based on value in use.
The multiple CGUs not separately listed above do not individually represent more than 3% of total Group goodwill.
All CGUs have been tested for impairment.
IAS 36 requires that impairment tests are carried out on CGUs, following the level at which the Groups management measures returns on operations.
The calculation of recoverable amount uses the following assumptions: Cash flow projections based on the Groups latest approved five-year business plan.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using an inflationary only growth rate of between 1% and 3%.
The growth rate used is less than or equal to third party estimates of the medium term GDP growth rates of the key geographic markets in which the specific CGU operates at the time the projections are prepared.
Cash flows are discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted as appropriate for business specific factors of sector risk, business size and geographic risk.
Since determination of an appropriate Group weighted average cost of capital was judgemental, sensitivities also addressed how increases in the base Group weighted average cost of capital might impact the results of the impairment tests.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital was based on a selection of third party financial institutions with significant knowledge of the Groups operations.
Central group overheads are borne in full by CGUs and are allocated pro rata to the CGUs underlying operating profit.
Where draft 2010 budgets indicated lower or higher underlying operating profit than the five-year business plan for any CGU, cash flow projections were re-run based on the revised operating profit information to obtain a more up to date value in use.
The calculation of recoverable amount is sensitive to forecast future earnings and, particularly, the discount rates used: A percentage decrease of up to 20% in future planned earnings for both the year ending 30 September 2010 and the year ending 30 September 2011 would still result in significant headroom positions for all the principal CGUs detailed in the table above.
In addition to the decreased earnings noted above, an increase for the principal CGUs detailed above of up to 1.5 percentage points in the discount rates used would not change the conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill is supported by its recoverable amount.
The sensitivities disclosed immediately above do not take account of any mitigating action that management would take should earnings decrease.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 93 Other key assumptions are in respect of the short and medium term post-acquisition earnings of acquired operations within the Activity, Specialist & Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors.
The forecast earnings of these newly-acquired businesses are inherently more judgemental over these timeframes.
The pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU or group of similar CGUs are as follows: Pre-tax discount rate used Pre-tax discount rate used 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 Sector Cash generating units CGUs % % Mainstream UK and Ireland 10 8.5 Germany 11 9.5 Nordics 11 10.5 Marmara & Nouvelles Frontires 11 9.5 1 Other CGUs 11 10.5 1 Specialist & Emerging Markets European Specialist businesses 12 11 1 American Specialist businesses 12.5 11 1 Activity Marine businesses 12-13 11.5-12.5 1 Sport, Adventure, Student and Ski businesses 13 13 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation & Destinations 12.5 10.75-12.5 1 Multiple individual CGUs.
Based on the calculations undertaken, the Directors consider that the recoverable amount of goodwill in each CGU exceeds its carrying value subject to the impairments noted below.
Impairment charges Impairment charges have arisen in the current and prior year as a result of the Groups restructuring post business combination.
Sunsail Clubs Within the Activity Sector, an impairment charge of 7m has arisen following the closure of the majority of Sunsail Clubs operations during the current financial year.
In particular, the Turkish summer clubs were not opened in the Summer of 2009 and it has been decided not to reopen the Antiguan Colonna Club during Winter 2009 2010.
The goodwill impairment charge has been calculated based on the value in use of the remaining business using a discount rate of 13% 2008: 12.5%.
TUIfly In 2008 a 112m impairment charge in respect of goodwill in Germany was recorded relating to TUIfly, the Groups airline in the German source market, part of the Central European Mainstream Sector.
The goodwill impairment arose as a result of the reclassification of TUIfly as a disposal group held for sale as at 30 June 2008.
This reclassification was undertaken based on the plan to dispose of the airline into a new joint venture undertaking which would continue to provide flying capacity to the German source market tour operator.
The goodwill impairment charge was calculated based on the fair value less costs to sell of TUIfly under the terms of the planned joint venture arrangement, which was on a commercial arms length basis.
As at 30 September 2008, TUIfly was declassified as a disposal group held for sale and reclassified within the Groups ongoing non-current and current assets and liabilities.
This was on the basis that a disposal transaction was no longer considered sufficiently probable.
The impairment charge recorded during the year was not reversed at 30 September 2008, based on managements then ongoing strategic review of TUIfly.
com 94 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment Advance Yachts, payments for Land and motor boats and Aircraft and future delivery Computer Other buildings cruise ships equipment of aircraft equipment equipment Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2007 277 164 1,581 154 364 2,540 Foreign exchange 21 10 107 5 33 176 Acquisitions through business combinations 15 1 8 24 Additions 31 10 45 15 51 152 Disposals 15 9 749 3 29 805 Transferred to assets held for sale 5 103 16 124 At 30 September 2008 329 170 881 172 411 1,963 Foreign exchange 36 8 87 2 8 41 182 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 74 1 6 83 Transfers 80 22 102 Additions 16 14 31 33 5 53 152 Disposals 30 22 75 7 14 25 173 Reclassifications 5 1 11 3 14 Transferred to from assets held for sale 19 4 32 1 1 9 At 30 September 2009 339 241 967 108 168 495 2,318 Depreciation and impairment At 1 October 2007 140 41 698 112 232 1,223 Foreign exchange 12 2 20 10 14 58 Acquisitions through business combinations 11 3 14 Provided in the year 16 8 119 18 45 206 Disposals 9 3 396 4 20 432 Impairments 1 23 7 31 Transferred to assets held for sale 2 48 13 63 At 30 September 2008 170 47 416 136 268 1,037 Foreign exchange 19 3 41 7 26 96 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 36 4 41 Provided in the year 17 16 99 14 38 184 Disposals 18 12 66 11 22 129 Impairments 1 124 125 Reclassifications 3 2 1 Transferred to from assets held for sale 15 17 1 1 At 30 September 2009 175 87 633 146 313 1,354 Net book value At 1 October 2007 137 123 883 42 132 1,317 At 30 September 2008 159 123 465 36 143 926 At 30 September 2009 164 154 334 108 22 182 964 www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 95 Impairment charges Impairment charges in the year ended 30 September 2009 total 125m 2008: 31m and are for Aircraft, 124m 2008: 23m and Land and buildings relating to Sunsail Clubs, 1m 2008: nil.
The impairment charges are disclosed within cost of sales and as a separately disclosed item Note 3.
Segmental analysis of the impairment charge is presented in Note 2.
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft were disclosed as prepayments in the year ended September 2008 but have been transferred to property, plant and equipment in the current year.
There were 80m of advance payments for future delivery of aircraft at 30 September 2008, 73m within non-current prepayments and 7m within current prepayments.
The changes have been undertaken to align the Groups presentation with its parent company.
No restatement to comparative financial information has been recorded on the basis of materiality.
Interest of 2m 2008: nil has been capitalised during the year in relation to the advance payments for future delivery of aircraft at a rate of 6%.
Other equipment advance payments for maintenance of owned aircraft Advance payments for maintenance of owned aircraft were disclosed as prepayments at 30 September 2008 and have been transferred to property plant and equipment under construction within other equipment in the current year.
There were 22m of advance payments for aircraft maintenance at 30 September 2008, all within non-current prepayments.
Sale and leaseback transactions During the year ended 30 September 2009, there have been 11 aircraft sale and leaseback transactions.
Seven of these transactions were fully conducted within the year: the remaining four aircraft, which had been purchased during the prior year, were classified as held for sale at 30 September 2008 and were then sold and leased back in the current year.
Net gains arising on the sale and leaseback transactions in the year ended 30 September 2009 were 4m which is included within cost of sales and also within separately disclosed items Note 3.
During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group sold and leased back 24 aircraft on operating leases as part of its aircraft fleet strategy.
Of these aircraft, 20 were previously owned and held within Property, plant and equipment and the sale was accounted for as a disposal.
The remaining four aircraft were purchased, sold and leased back within the year.
The loss on sale and leasebacks of 102m, including the recognition of opening maintenance provisions, is included within cost of sales and also within separately disclosed items Note 3.
Future commitments in respect of aircraft fleet operating leases are disclosed in Note 27.
Assets held for sale At 30 September 2009, one aircraft classified as a non-current asset held for sale at 30 September 2008 has been reclassified to Property, plant and equipment.
A full depreciation charge has been recorded in the year.
Other disclosures Other property, plant and equipment with a combined net book value as at 30 September 2009 of 182m 2008: 143m includes 103m 2008: 95m of fixtures and fittings, 47m 2008: 20m of property, plant and equipment under construction and 30m 2008: 27m of motor vehicles.
Land and buildings comprise freehold and short leasehold properties with net book values of 108m 2008: 98m and 56m 2008: 61m respectively.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 30 September 2009 was 152m 2008: 193m.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment with restrictions on title, being pledged as security for bank loans, amounted to 29m 2008: 39m.
com 96 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments The Groups equity investment in its joint ventures and associates is recorded in the consolidated financial statements as follows: Share of net Share of net Total assets of assets of share of joint ventures associates net assets m m m Cost At 1 October 2007 64 12 76 Share of profits before tax for the year 15 15 Share of tax charge 3 3 Increase in investment 9 9 Dividends paid 7 2 9 Foreign exchange 718 At 30 September 2008 85 11 96 Share of profits before tax for the year 8 4 12 Share of tax charge 2 1 3 Acquisitions 88 Disposals 30 30 Dividends paid 8 2 10 Reclassifications and other movements 3 4 7 Foreign exchange 73 10 At 30 September 2009 57 19 76 Goodwill At 1 October 2007 12 4 16 Foreign exchange 112 At 30 September 2008 13 5 18 Acquisitions 93 12 Disposals 4 4 Reclassifications and other movements 7 7 Foreign exchange 213 At 30 September 2009 20 16 36 Net book value At 1 October 2007 76 16 92 At 1 October 2008 98 16 114 At 30 September 2009 77 35 112 The Groups share of joint venture and associate profit after tax was 9m 2008: 12m.
During the year, the Group acquired a 49.9% shareholding in TUI InfoTec GmbH and a 49% shareholding in Togebi Holdings Limited for consideration of 11m and 9m respectively.
The disposal relates to the Group acquiring the remaining 50% shareholding in Sunshine Cruises Limited for a consideration of 30m on 4 October 2008.
From this date, Sunshine Cruises ceased to be equity accounted and is instead fully consolidated as a subsidiary.
The principal joint ventures and associates and the proportion held are shown below: Country of registration Name of company % proportion held Nature of business incorporation Joint ventures Travco Group Holding SAE 50.0 Incoming agency Egypt Le Passage to India Tours and Travel Pvt Ltd 50.0 Incoming agency India Atlantica Hellas SA 50.0 Hotel operator Greece Atlantica Hotels and Resorts Ltd 50.0 Hotel operator Cyprus Togebi Holdings Limited 49.0 Tour operator Cyprus Associates Turismo Asia Company Limited 49.0 Incoming agency Thailand TUI InfoTec GmbH 49.9 IT Services Germany Togebi Holdings Limited operates in Russia and Ukraine.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 97 A summary of the results for the year ended 30 September 2009 and of the assets and liabilities at this date of the Groups joint ventures and associates is shown below: Joint ventures Associates Total 100% values m m m Revenue 459 346 805 Operating costs 441 333 774 Operating profit 18 13 31 Net interest payable 3 1 4 Profit before taxation 15 12 27 Taxation 3 2 5 Profit after taxation for the year 12 10 22 Non-current assets 182 34 216 Current assets 140 62 202 Total assets 322 96 418 Non-current liabilities 75 11 86 Current liabilities 130 49 179 Total liabilities 205 60 265 Net assets 117 36 153 Non-consolidated entities Trade and listed Non-consolidated investments entities Total m m m At 1 October 2007 23 30 53 Foreign exchange 33 At 30 September 2008 23 33 56 Additions 36 3 39 Disposals 9 9 Repayment of loan notes 2 2 Investments consolidated for the first time 8 8 Impairment during the year 2 2 Change in the fair value of available for sale financial asset 1 1 Foreign exchange 44 At 30 September 2009 47 30 77 Non-consolidated entities are recorded at cost and reflect the Groups net investment held in circa 100 subsidiaries which, due to the immaterial size of their revenues, result and financial position, have not been consolidated.
Balances between these entities and consolidated subsidiaries have not been eliminated.
Other investments Other investments of 77m comprise trade and listed investments and non-consolidated entities.
Trade and listed investments represent the Groups 14.3% shareholding in The Airline Group Limited, which in turn has a 42% shareholding in National Air Traffic Services Limited, a 9.9% shareholding in Air Berlin PLC and a 10% holding in the Atlantica Leisure Group Limited.
During the year, the Group announced a strategic cooperation between its German airline TUIfly and Air Berlin PLC.
As part of this transaction the Group prepaid an equity investment in Air Berlin PLC of 33m equating to a 9.9% shareholding.
This is included in trade and listed investments at 30 September 2009.
On 3 October 2009, full clearance was received from the German competition authorities in respect of the Groups investment in Air Berlin PLC.
During the year, a 1m loss on revaluation of the Air Berlin PLC investment to fair value has been recognised in equity.
No other material changes in the fair value of these investments have been recorded in the year.
Subsequent to the year end, on 24 October 2009 the city charter operation of TUIfly transferred to Air Berlin PLC, comprising 13 aircraft on wet lease contracts.
com 98 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Investments Acquisitions A Acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2009 Acquisitions were made in the year for a total of 92m, including 2m of acquisition expenses.
These acquisitions gave rise to provisional goodwill of 58m.
The principal acquired businesses and their acquisition dates were: Business Description Date Country Mainstream Sector Northern Region Sunshine Cruises Limited trading as Island Cruises Ltd Cruise vessel operator October 2008 United Kingdom Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector Travel Adventures, Inc Tour operator October 2008 USA Activity Sector Sport Abroad UK Limited Tour operator October 2008 United Kingdom Teamlink Travel Limited Tour operator October 2008 United Kingdom Edwin Doran Limited Tour operator November 2008 United Kingdom Master Yachting GmbH Tour operator November 2008 Germany 1 Student Skiing Limited trading as Off The Piste Limited Tour operator December 2008 United Kingdom Adventure Tours Australia Group Pty Limited Tour operator April 2009 Australia Williment World Travel Limited Tour operator May 2009 New Zealand Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc Tour operator June 2009 USA EAC Language Centres UK Limited Language Teaching July 2009 United Kingdom Accommodation & Destinations Sector Aragon Tours Limited Cruise services May 2009 United Kingdom 1 Formerly On The Piste.
In addition to the above, the Group acquired 15 individually insignificant businesses for a total consideration of 3m.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting equity instruments in respect of each acquisition completed during the year with the exception of Sunshine Cruises Limited trading as Island Cruises, where the Group previously held 50% and acquired all the remaining shares in the year.
The relative size of the acquisitions made is set out in the table below: Total T otal Consideration Number of consideration goodwill m acquisitions m m 0 5 61514 5 10 32019 10 15 22321 15 131 1 Total of businesses listed above 12 89 55 Other individually insignificant businesses 15 3 3 Total 27 92 58 www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 99 The total net assets liabilities acquired are set out below: Fair value of Book value Accounting net assets prior to policy Fair value liabilities acquisition adjustments adjustments acquired Note m m m m Net assets liabilities acquired Intangible fixed assets 1 3 18 21 Property, plant and equipment 2 53 1 10 42 Current assets excluding cash 3 34 2 36 Cash 34 34 Current liabilities excluding debt 3 53 1 54 Deferred tax provision 4 2 2 Other non-current liabilities excluding debt 5 7 3 10 Interest-bearing liabilities 3 3 61 3 64 Adjusted for carrying value of share of Sunshine Cruises Limited previously owned as a joint venture 30 Total 34 Total consideration 92 Less net assets acquired as above 34 Provisional goodwill arising 58 Goodwill reclassified from investments in joint ventures on acquisition of Sunshine Cruises Limited 4 Total goodwill in respect of acquisitions 62 All acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method, as required by IFRS 3.
It should be noted that certain fair value adjustments and the value of contingent consideration have necessarily been prepared on a provisional basis due to the recent timing of certain acquisitions and the periods over which contingent consideration may become payable.
Experience may result in revisions to fair values in the subsequent accounting period.
Accounting policy and fair value adjustments principally arise from: 1 Elimination of goodwill existing in balance sheets at acquisition and inclusion of the fair value of IFRS 3 business combination intangible assets comprising principally brands Note 10.
2 Fair valuation of property, plant and equipment principally relating to ship assets in Sunshine Cruises.
3 Accounting policy alignment for revenue recognition and associated operating costs.
4 Recognition of deferred taxation liabilities relating to other adjustments, including intangible assets recognised.
5 Provision for onerous lease contract on Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc.
The consideration payable is made up of: m Cash 67 Deferred consideration 1 Contingent consideration 20 Loan notes issued 2 90 Expenses 2 Total consideration 92 www.
com 100 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued B Cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions Total cash flows relating to acquisitions in the year, including amounts paid in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on prior period acquisitions are as follows: 2009 2009 Maximum Paid m m Acquisitions in the year 67 67 Deferred and contingent consideration arising and loan notes issued 23 Acquisition expenses paid in the year 22 Total consideration 92 69 Cash acquired with acquisitions 34 Cash paid relating to prior period acquisitions excluding loan notes 13 Net cash outflow in the year relating to acquisitions 48 Maximum consideration payable represents the maximum consideration that the Group would be obliged to pay if all contingent consideration were to become due.
Movements in deferred and contingent consideration in the year were as follows: Deferred Contingent Loan consideration consideration notes Total m m m m At 1 October 2008 29 40 8 77 Recognised in the year relating to current year acquisitions 1 20 2 23 Adjustments to amounts recognised in respect of prior period acquisitions 10 10 Cash paid 11 2 6 19 Foreign exchange 1326 At 30 September 2009 20 51 6 77 Further details of deferred and contingent consideration payable in less than one year and after more than one year is given in Notes 20 and 22 respectively.
The contingent consideration payable arising in the year is in respect of the acquisitions listed below.
It is dependent on the results of the businesses over the following periods or the balance of working capital at the acquisition date, and the Directors believe the amounts provided reflect the most likely outcome in each case: Basis of Period for calculation calculation Maximum of contingent of contingent contingent Acquisition consideration consideration consideration Sport Abroad UK Limited Earnings Up to 9 Oct 2011 GBP 1m Master Yachting GmbH Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2013 EUR 1m Adventure Tours Australia Group Pty Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2010 AUD 7m Williment World Travel Limited Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2011 NZD 14m Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc Earnings Up to 31 Dec 2011 USD 11m EAC Language Centres UK Limited Earnings Up to 30 Sep 2010 GBP 3m Total contingent consideration recognised in respect of current year acquisitions GBP 20m C Residual goodwill A consistent process is undertaken at each acquisition to identify the fair value of separable assets and liabilities acquired, including the fair value of intangible assets, being brands, order books, licences, customer relationships and other intangible assets.
The residual goodwill on acquisition represents the value of assets and earnings that do not form separable assets under IFRS 3 but nevertheless are expected to contribute to the future results of the Group.
Residual goodwill in respect of current year acquisitions represents principally: Market knowledge of particular geographic areas: Knowledge of particular market segments, for example sports travel and language training: Involvement of existing management and employees and transfer of their knowledge of the operation of the business model: Integration synergies particularly within UK Mainstream and the Activity Sector: and The ability to sell acquired product through existing channels and existing product through acquired channels, in all Sectors.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 101 D Consolidated income statement If the businesses that were acquired at various times during the year ended 30 September 2009 had been part of the Group since 1 October 2008, Group revenue and loss after tax would have been increased by 38m and 2m respectively including amortisation of business combination intangibles net of tax.
The acquired businesses contributed revenues of 141m and profit after tax including amortisation of business combination intangibles of 6m.
E Acquisitions post balance sheet date Subsequent to 30 September 2009, the Group has acquired Select World Pty Ltd for a total maximum consideration of AUD 14m GBP 8m.
The accounting under IFRS 3 revised for this acquisition has not yet been finalised.
F Prior period revisions to fair values In the year ended 30 September 2008, the Group acquired various businesses for a total consideration of 109m.
The finalisation of the acquisition balance sheets for these businesses has not led to revisions to the fair values that were presented in the 2008 accounts, and therefore no restatement of the results to 30 September 2008 or balance sheet as at 30 September 2008 has been presented in these accounts.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Intangible assets 26 3 212 190 186 187 Finance lease transactions 1 12 25 24 12 Property, plant and equipment 81 11 44 14 37 3 Receivables and other assets 5 4 5 8 4 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 85 27 80 50 5 23 Inventories 4 6 4 6 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 46 6 10 7 36 1 Retirement benefits 117 62 4 117 58 Other short term temporary differences 93 57 45 9 48 48 Tax value of losses carried forward 77 64 77 64 Total 535 252 421 282 114 30 Set off of deferred tax within the same jurisdiction 324 47 324 47 Net tax assets liabilities 211 205 97 235 114 30 The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses in individual tax jurisdictions based on forecast future taxable profits.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items reported at the applicable tax rate : 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Capital losses 42 3 Other losses 147 142 Total losses 189 145 These assets have not been recognised principally because the Directors are not certain of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future.
These losses are not subject to time expiry and are available for utilisation against profits arising in future periods in the territories in which they have arisen.
There are no other unprovided deferred tax liabilities nor unrecognised deferred tax assets.
com 102 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Movements in temporary differences during the current year: Balance at Recognised Recognised Balance at 1 October Arising on charged in charged in Foreign 30 September 2008 acquisition income equity exchange 2009 m m m m m m Intangible assets 187 1 15 1 14 186 Finance lease transactions 12 35 1 24 Property, plant and equipment 3 41 1 37 Receivables and other assets 4 3 1 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 23 10 39 1 5 Inventories 6 2 4 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1 39 2 36 Employee benefits 58 7 65 1 117 Other short term temporary differences 48 1 2 3 48 Tax value of losses carried forward 64 17 4 77 Total 30 2 59 105 18 114 Movements in temporary differences during the prior year are analysed as follows: Balance at Recognised Recognised Balance at 1 October Arising on charged in charged in Foreign 30 September 2007 acquisition income equity exchange 2008 m m m m m m Intangible assets 190 18 22 1 187 Finance lease transactions 7 3 2 12 Property, plant and equipment 32 32 3 3 Receivables and other assets 2 1 1 4 Financial instruments and foreign exchange 42 4 58 3 23 Inventories 5 1 6 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 1 1 1 Employee benefits 59 3 4 6 58 Other short term temporary differences 57 12 3 48 Tax value of losses carried forward 41 17 6 64 Total 16 18 55 62 11 30 Intangible asset temporary differences arise in respect of assets recognised on acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment temporary differences principally relate to tax depreciation in the UK, France and Germany.
Employee benefits temporary differences arise in respect of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities and future deductions available on the vesting of employee awards.
Financial instruments and foreign exchange temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments accounted for under IAS 39 and principally reflect the fair value at 30 September 2009 of cash flow hedging derivatives that will be settled against future transactions.
Other short term temporary differences relate to operating expenses and related accruals and provisions for which a tax deduction has not yet been recognised.
Inventories 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Marine inventories 17 16 Airline spares and operating equipment 21 20 Other operating inventories 13 15 Total 51 51 No inventory amounts are expected to be recovered after more than 12 months.
The write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 3m 2008: 1m.
The write-downs in 2009 and 2008 are both included within underlying operating profit in cost of sales.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 103 16.
Trade and other receivables 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total assets assets assets assets assets assets m m m m m m Trade receivables 658 658 630 630 Amounts owed by related parties 26 26 133 2 135 Other receivables 266 43 309 340 98 438 950 43 993 1,103 100 1,203 Prepayments 586 151 737 550 110 660 Total 1,536 194 1,730 1,653 210 1,863 The maximum exposure to credit risk for total loans and receivables at the reporting date by geographic region was: 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m United Kingdom 276 287 Germany 132 184 France 132 174 Other European countries 331 385 Rest of the World 122 173 Total 993 1,203 Trade and other receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is shown below.
30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 36 35 Foreign exchange 10 2 Charge to the consolidated income statement 23 1 Utilisation of provision 10 Total 59 36 The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was: 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 Gross Provision Net Gross m m m m Not overdue 750 1 749 1,016 Overdue 1 30 days 125 8 117 115 Overdue 31 90 days 50 3 47 53 Overdue 91 180 days 20 3 17 34 Overdue more than 180 days 107 44 63 21 1,052 59 993 1,239 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 36 Total 993 1,203 No individually material bad debt provision movements or changes have been recorded in the year.
Based on past experience and the post balance sheet period to the date of these consolidated financial statements, the Group considers that the impairment allowance recorded is adequate.
Within the impairment allowance there are no individually material amounts held.
Trade receivables not overdue and not impaired include amounts due from travel agencies, tour operators and hoteliers in respect of Mainstream, Specialist & Emerging Markets, Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors.
Credit exposure to individual passengers booking holidays directly is limited by the Groups policy that full payment is required before the issue of tickets and holiday departure.
com 104 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Cash in hand 34 12 Cash at bank 304 396 Deposits 452 722 Cash and cash equivalents 790 1,130 Cash and cash equivalents includes 60m 2008: 46m that is not available for immediate use by the Group.
This is made up of monies held to meet regulatory requirements plus cash balances on short term deposits held on a restricted basis by the Groups captive insurance funds as part of their ongoing operations.
Other current investments disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet comprise deposit balances held to meet regulatory requirements with a term exceeding three months.
Assets classified as held for sale 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Yachts and motor boats 4 3 Land and buildings 9 1 Aircraft 16 126 Disposal groups assets 93 24 Other 4 3 Total assets classified as held for sale 126 157 Disposal groups liabilities 59 22 Net assets classified as held for sale 67 135 The disposal group assets and liabilities held for sale comprise the Canadian Mainstream business at 30 September 2009 and Socit dInvestissement Arien S. A. Jet4You at 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008.
Jet4You is included within the Western Europe segment and the Canadian Mainstream Business is included in the Northern Region.
The Canadian Mainstream business is classified as held for sale on the basis of the announced joint venture transaction with Sunwing Travel Group Inc. Jet4You is presented as held for sale at the current and prior year end, based on the active disposal process for the business which is progressing and which the Directors expect to complete within 12 months.
Aircraft held for sale relate to the Northern Europe and Central Europe Mainstream segments.
In the year ended 30 September 2009, an impairment charge of 1m 2008: 31m has been taken to record these property, plant and equipment assets at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
The impairment charge is included within separately disclosed restructuring expenses and aircraft items Note 3.
During the prior year, four aircraft were purchased but were not sold and leased back until the first quarter of the current year ended 30 September 2009.
The four aircraft were therefore classified as held for sale at 30 September 2008 until their disposal for a total of 90m in the current year.
The disposal proceeds are included within Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment on the consolidated cash flow statement.
Assets held for sale are expected to be sold within 12 months.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Current liabilities Amounts owed to related parties 229 Bank loans and overdrafts 31 31 Loan notes 3 3 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 25 20 Other financial liabilities 39 45 Total 327 99 Other financial liabilities comprise the fair value of two put options written by the Group to the sole remaining minority shareholder in LTUR Tourismus AG LTUR that may require the Group to purchase the minority shareholding.
During the year, the Group increased its shareholding from 51% to 70% on the exercise of part of one of the options.
The remainder of this put option over 20% of the shares may be exercised at any time until 2015.
A further put option at a fixed price with no time limit has been written by the Group during the year to the same minority shareholder for the remaining 10% shareholding.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 105 Fair value changes in the put option liability are included within financial expenses or financial income.
30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Non-current liabilities Amounts owed to related parties 611 840 Bank loans 20 154 Loan notes 3 6 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 167 167 Total 801 1,167 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m The bank loans and loan notes are repayable: Within one year 34 34 Between one and five years 23 156 After five years 4 Total 57 194 Certain loans are secured on the underlying assets of the company in whose name the borrowings are made.
At 30 September 2009 and 30 September 2008, the related party loans were all repayable within five years.
Finance lease liabilities relate primarily to the leasing of aircraft and boats.
Group obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are payable as follows: Minimum Minimum lease lease payments payments 30 September 30 September Principal Interest 2009 Principal Interest 2008 m m m m m m In respect of aircraft, yachts and equipment payable within: One year 25 8 33 20 9 29 One to five years 164 6 170 158 15 173 After five years 3 3 9 9 Total 192 14 206 187 24 211 20.
Current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 1,363 1,142 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 B 23 20 Other payables 232 233 Amounts owed to related parties 134 77 Other taxes and social security costs 99 58 Accruals and deferred income 1,005 1,033 Client money received in advance 1,306 1,494 Total 4,162 4,057 www.
com 106 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Aircraft maintenance Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 October 2008 204 46 165 415 Provided in the year 240 24 93 357 Released in the year 15 25 40 Unwinding of discounted amount 4 1 5 Costs incurred 188 41 85 314 Foreign exchange 916 16 At 30 September 2009 254 30 155 439 Analysed as: Non-current 205 2 43 250 Current 49 28 112 189 254 30 155 439 At 30 September 2008 Analysed as: Non-current 154 1 25 180 Current 50 45 140 235 204 46 165 415 Aircraft maintenance In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other components based on total anticipated costs over the useful economic life of the asset calculated by reference to costs experienced and published manufacturers data.
The charge to the income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Neither the timing nor the value of the expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over a fleet.
The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled major overhaul.
Restructuring Restructuring relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are irrevocably committed and includes severance payments.
Further details of restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 3.
Other Other provisions relate to litigation including provisions for contingent liabilities recorded on acquisition of First Choice, onerous lease contracts that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is uncertain.
The majority of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, while the remainder is expected to be utilised within one to four years of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims is estimated and is inherently uncertain.
Non-current trade and other payables 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 1 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 B 48 49 Other payables 5 6 Accruals and deferred income 55 93 Total 108 149 www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 107 23.
Share capital 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Authorised 1,999,500,020 2008: 1,999,500,020 ordinary shares of 10p each 200 200 49,998 2008: 49,998 redeemable preference shares of 1 each Total 200 200 Allotted, called up and fully paid 1,118,010,670 2008: 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each 112 112 Total 112 112 As described more fully in Note 35, the ultimate parent company, TUI AG, is the beneficial owner of 52.54% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares on the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Primarily the shares are intended to be used for issuing shares under the Companys share award programme.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board: the Company does not have a defined share buy-back plan.
Capital and reserves Retained Share Merger Translation Hedging earnings Equity holders Minority capital reserve reserve reserve deficit of parent interest Total m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2007 112 2,490 45 107 83 2,623 7 2,630 Total recognised income expense for the year 187 134 271 50 5 55 Share-based payment 14 14 14 Acquisition of own shares 7 7 7 Acquisition in stages 8 8 8 Dividends 65 65 5 70 Acquisition of minority interest 16 16 2 18 At 30 September 2008 112 2,490 232 27 270 2,591 5 2,596 Total recognised income expense for the year 128 102 231 205 2 203 Share-based payment 16 16 16 Dividends 107 107 3 110 Acquisition of minority interest 12 12 1 13 At 30 September 2009 112 2,490 360 75 604 2,283 3 2,286 Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the business combination of TUI Travel PLC TUI Travel, First Choice Holidays PLC First Choice and the Tourism Division of TUI AG on 3 September 2007.
The merger reserve is non-distributable.
Acquisition of minority interest During the year ended 30 September 2009, the Group acquired a proportion of the minority interest shareholding in respect of a number of subsidiaries.
The principal acquisitions were in respect of the minority interest shareholdings in LTUR Tourismus AG Note 19, TUI Hellas Travel Tourism and Airlines AE and TUI Bulgaria OOD.
Acquisition in stages Equity adjustments in the year ended 30 September 2008 relating to acquisitions in stages were for the Groups acquisition of the remaining 50% shareholding in Socit Polynsienne Promotion Hotelire, a hotel operator within the Western Europe Mainstream Sector and the remaining 60% shareholding of Jet4You, a Moroccan airline.
Both were previously equity accounted entities for which a share of net liabilities had not been recognised under IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Acquisition of own shares During the year ended 30 September 2008, the Company purchased its own shares for 7m which was debited to equity.
The number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT at 30 September 2009 and at 30 September 2008 is disclosed in Note 5 D. The associated cash outflow was presented as a financing cash flow.
Other reserves Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the Groups reporting currency are recorded in the translation reserve.
Gains or losses arising on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedging reserve and are recycled to the consolidated income statement in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 1 F. The Group also has a capital reserve of 0.1m at 30 September 2009 2008: 0.1m and a revaluation reserve of 0.2m 2008: 0.2m.
The capital reserve is non-distributable.
com 108 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Financial instruments A Treasury risk overview The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: Market risk in respect of foreign currency rate risk, fuel price risk and interest rate risk : Liquidity risk in respect of the Groups ability to meet its liabilities : Credit risk in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group : and Capital risk in respect of its capital structure and cost of capital.
The Groups key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel price.
Currency risk results from the substantial cross-border element of the Groups trading, and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses.
The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts.
The Groups exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Groups floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk are considered in Notes 25 D, 25 F and 25 K respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework and to ensure that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces.
These form part of the Groups overall Risk Management Framework.
Incorporated within the frameworks terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness of those policies.
Group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis.
The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority applied to dealing and to approving the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures.
Transactions are only undertaken to hedge underlying exposures.
Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The Treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit, and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams and receives regular cash flow forecasts from each business unit to ensure hedges match the currency or fuel requirements of each operating business.
Reports and forecasts for the Group, showing hedges and forecast requirements, are submitted monthly to the Group Management Board and to each Board meeting of TUI Travel PLC.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored throughout the year its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions.
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
B Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses which are principally Sterling, Euro, US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Swedish Krona.
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is, winter season and summer season with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure forecast sales and purchases and related assets and liabilities for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan balances and deposits.
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The following significant exchange rates to the Groups Sterling presentation currency excluding the impact of hedged transactions are illustrative of the rates applied during the current and prior year: Average rate Mid-spot rate Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 1 GBP equivalent 2009 2008 2009 2008 US Dollar 1.560 1.992 1.600 1.801 Euro 1.149 1.324 1.094 1.256 Canadian Dollar 1.822 1.991 1.717 1.885 Swedish Krona 12.101 12.374 11.181 12.301 As at 30 September 2009, the Group has hedged forecast transactions for $3.5bn and 1.2bn for periods up until Winter 2010 principally relating to Winter 2009 and Summer 2010. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 109 C Commodity risk Fuel commodity risk arises from the Groups operation of aircraft in Europe and Canada.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being the winter and summer season with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using predominantly commodity swaps or options, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
As at 30 September 2009, the Group has hedged transactions for fuel of 1.8m metric tonnes 2008: 2.0m metric tonnes for periods up until Winter 2010.
During the prior year, the Group paid premiums on swaption and option instruments in order to manage short term volatility in respect of fuel hedging, whilst still continuing to apply the Groups documented hedging policies.
The charge for these option premiums is included in the comparative years separately disclosed items within cost of sales as it arose directly as a result of the exceptional fuel price volatility during 2008.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 25 I.
D Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for treasury and operating related credit exposures.
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board.
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties where applicable as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.
Financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with strong credit ratings of A1 P1.
Loans and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no material concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was: Carrying value Carrying value 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Trade and other receivables Note 16 993 1,203 Cash and cash equivalents Note 17 790 1,130 Derivatives contracts used for hedging 284 321 Trade and listed investments Note 12 47 23 Other investments Note 17 36 29 Total 2,150 2,706 Trade and other receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date and by geographic region as well as their ageing is disclosed in Note 16.
Cash, cash equivalents and other investments principally comprise money market deposits and other short term investments.
The investments are with counterparties with a strong credit rating of A1 P1.
At 30 September 2009, approximately 51% 2008: 48% of the Groups unrestricted cash and cash equivalents were invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom.
In addition, the Group makes prepayments for hotel accommodation.
Whilst such prepayments do not meet the definition of a financial asset under IAS 39, such prepayments give rise to a risk similar to credit risk due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment through full delivery of the related goods and services.
Prepayments from time to time can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which are based overseas.
The carrying amount of prepayments which are presented within current and non-current assets forms the maximum credit exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral held by the Group.
Where appropriate, the Group obtains security collateral over the related accommodation property to mitigate credit risk.
The Group leases out aircraft on operating leases on a short term seasonal basis, principally over the Winter season.
Lease income recognised in the year was 18m 2008: 6m.
Subsequent to the year end, on 24 October 2009, the Group commenced the long term wet lease to Air Berlin PLC of 13 aircraft, for an initial term of 10 years.
At 30 September 2009, prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was 151m 2008: 89m.
com 110 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued E Interest rate risk The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar, and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the Groups floating rate aircraft leases, and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and the Group does not designate derivatives interest rate swaps as hedging instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model.
The Groups loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the exception of put option liabilities which are carried at fair value: Face value Face value and carrying and carrying amount amount 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 Financial instrument Currency Nominal interest rate Year of maturity m m Shareholder loan EUR 3.0% 2011 840 840 Secured bank loans Sterling 2.2%-6.2% 2010-2018 19 24 EUR 5.1%-6.0% 2009-2015 1 1 USD 1.4% 2011 9 9 Unsecured bank loans USD N A N A 132 EUR 1.9%-5.7% 2009-2018 22 19 51 185 Finance leases EUR 2.6%-6.4% 2010-2015 187 180 USD 5.5% 2011-2013 2 5 MAD 5.9%-6.5% 2014-015 2 2 AUD 7.2%-11.8% 2009-2012 1 192 187 Loan notes Sterling 1.4% 2010-2011 1 3 USD 5.0%-6.0% 2010-2011 4 6 NZD 7.0% 2009-2010 1 6 9 Put option liabilities EUR 5.0% Current 39 45 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,128 1,266 Analysed between: Fixed rate instruments 215 208 Variable rate instruments 913 1,058 1,128 1,266 F Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.
The Groups liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and January.
To manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which principally comprise two main sources of long term debt funding: i the shareholder loan from TUI AG of 919m which is fully drawn and is repayable on: 1 April 2010: 250m, 1 December 2010: 509m and 30 April 2011: 160m: and ii the external bank revolving syndicated credit facilities totalling 910m 2008: 770m plus a bonding and letter of credit facility of 40m 2008: nil which mature in June 2012 and September 2010 respectively.
From these facilities, 144m has been utilised for letter of credit purposes at 30 September 2009 2008: 224m.
The Groups external bank revolving credit facility was increased by 140m with effect from 30 September 2009.
The external bank revolving credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Groups cash flows and liquidity.
Cash positions, liquidity and available facility headroom are monitored daily by the Group treasury department.
In addition to the above facilities, the Group issued a 350m convertible bond due 2014 on 1 October 2009 which was settled on 5 October 2009.
The coupon has been set at 6.0% per annum, and the conversion price has been set at 349.3p per share, which represents a premium of 33.0% over the volume weighted average price of TUI Travel PLCs ordinary shares from launch to pricing.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 111 The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in our external credit facilities, were met at the year end and throughout the year.
Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease rentals charge EBITDAR divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Both covenants are measured on an underlying basis as defined in Note 1 B ii.
In respect of the delivery of new aircraft, the Groups established strategy is to refinance new aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore the Group does not forecast to use internal cash resources for new aircraft purchases.
Details of aircraft purchase commitments at the year end are given in Note 28.
The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date: Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 30 September 2009 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Shareholder loan 840 865 249 616 Secured bank loans 29 31 6 10 15 Unsecured bank loans 22 27 15363 Finance leases 192 206 33 147 23 3 Loan notes 67511 Other financial liabilities 39 39 39 Trade and other payables 2,831 2,831 2,800 31 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 302 348 307 38 3 Total 4,261 4,354 3,454 846 48 6 Carrying Contractual Within 1-2 2-5 More than amount cash flows 1 year years years 5 years 30 September 2008 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Shareholder loan 840 998 52 53 893 Secured bank loans 34 42 8 7 15 12 Unsecured bank loans 151 186 8 9 151 18 Finance leases 187 211 29 30 143 9 Loan notes 9963 Other interest-bearing liabilities 45 45 45 Trade and other payables 2,607 2,607 2,554 53 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 228 211 166 37 8 Total 4,101 4,309 2,868 192 1,210 39 The actual repayment of revolving credit facilities will vary.
The timing reflected in the tables is based on the first date that the Group can be required to settle the liability.
Trade and other payables exclude customers monies received in advance, deferred income and deferred and contingent consideration.
At 30 September 2009, the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 806m 2008: 546m, comprising letters of credit, guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings.
Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Groups financing arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements.
The Group was in full compliance with its financial covenants throughout each of the periods presented.
Undrawn facilities presented below exclude the Groups 350m 6% convertible bond, issued on 1 October 2009.
Undrawn facilities throughout all years presented are analysed as follows: 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Expiring: Within one year 40 In more than one year but less than five years 766 546 Total 806 546 www.
com 112 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued G Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities The tables below set out the Groups IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities: Held for Available Loans and Amortised Total trading for sale receivables cost carrying value At 30 September 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 790 790 Borrowings due within one year 288 288 Borrowings due after more than one year 801 801 Derivative assets 284 284 Derivative liabilities 302 302 Other financial assets 47 1,029 1,076 Other financial liabilities 39 2,831 2,870 Total 57 47 1,819 3,920 2,111 Held for Available Loans and Amortised Total trading for sale receivables cost carrying value At 30 September 2008 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,130 1,130 Borrowings due within one year 54 54 Borrowings due after more than one year 1,167 1,167 Derivative assets 321 321 Derivative liabilities 228 228 Other financial assets 23 1,232 1,255 Other financial liabilities 45 2,607 2,652 Total 48 23 2,362 3,828 1,395 Other financial assets comprise trade receivables, other receivables which are receivable within and after more than one year as well as other investments due within one year.
Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable within and after more than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost comprising bank loans, loans from parent and finance lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 4.
Derivatives presented under Held for trading under IAS 39 classifications are analysed between cash flow hedges and economic hedges in Note 25 I. H Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2009 and at 30 September 2008, are as follows: 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 790 790 1,130 1,130 Borrowings Shareholder loan 840 840 840 840 Bank loans 51 51 185 185 Loan notes 6 6 9 9 Finance lease liabilities 192 188 187 179 Derivative financial instruments Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: assets 271 271 264 264 liabilities 173 173 112 112 Commodity contracts used for hedging: assets 13 13 57 57 liabilities 129 129 116 116 Other financial assets Trade receivables 993 993 1,203 1,203 Trade and listed investments 47 47 23 23 Other investments 36 36 29 29 Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities 39 39 45 45 Trade and other payables 2,800 2,800 2,554 2,554 Other long term payables 31 31 53 53 Total 2,111 2,107 1,395 1,387 The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1 Y to the consolidated financial statements.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 113 I Derivative instruments At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows: 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 Assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair value value value value value value m m m m m m Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forwards 238 167 71 229 87 142 Foreign exchange options 1 1 20 4 16 Commodity options 3 13 10 15 16 1 Commodity swaps 10 116 106 42 100 58 251 297 46 306 207 99 Economic hedges Foreign exchange forwards 33 5 28 15 21 6 Total 284 302 18 321 228 93 Analysed as: Current 271 284 13 273 178 95 Non-current 13 18 5 48 50 2 Total 284 302 18 321 228 93 All derivatives are held as cash flow hedges or to offset changes in the value of items recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Speculative positions are not undertaken.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives which are principally cash flow hedges are expected to occur: Projected cash flows Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years 30 September 2009 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 252 11 Commodity swaps 5 257 11 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 148 14 2 Commodity options 27 2 Commodity swaps 132 22 1 307 38 3 Total 50 27 3 Projected cash flows Less than Between Between Over 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years 30 September 2008 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 194 37 51 Foreign exchange options 3 Commodity options 8 Commodity swaps 42 2 247 39 51 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 68 19 8 Commodity options 8 3 Commodity swaps 90 15 166 37 8 Total 81 2 43 Ineffectiveness Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the income statement for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Ineffectiveness in the year ended 30 September 2009 comprised 5m 2008: 7m relating to fuel hedging and this is included within underlying operating profit.
com 114 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Aircraft order book derivatives In November 2008, US dollar cash flow hedges in connection with the Groups aircraft order books were fully unwound and settled early in a planned process.
This early settlement which resulted in a net cash gain, has arisen because post the business combination forming TUI Travel PLC, the Board has determined the Groups asset ownership strategy is asset right.
In terms of aircraft ownership and financing this means that the Groups preferred solution is to sell and leaseback new aircraft under operating leases at the time of delivery.
Consequently, payments for new aircraft in US dollars are now planned to be funded by way of proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions and future US dollar currency requirements are not required to be forward hedged.
The cumulative gain on aircraft order book derivatives from the period when these hedges were effective up until the termination of these hedges is recognised in the hedging reserve.
Net gains relating to aircraft orders delivered or cancelled in the year comprising 10 Boeing 787s have been recycled to the income statement immediately and are recorded in separately disclosed items Note 3.
A remaining amount of 11m net of deferred taxation remains in reserves and will be recycled to match the delivery of the related aircraft.
J Amounts recognised directly in equity The following amounts have been recognised directly in equity during the year: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Hedging reserve Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedge 60 163 Fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to the consolidated income statement 81 37 141 200 Translation Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations recorded in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 129 180 Net credit charge to equity 12 380 K Capital management The Boards policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long term value to shareholders with a return on invested capital greater than the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
Progress in achieving this objective has been made during this year, by improving underlying operating margins from 2.9% to 3.2% which increases return on invested capital ROIC to 9.2% 2008: 8.4%.
ROIC is defined as Underlying NOPAT Average Invested Capital Underlying NOPAT is underlying net operating profit less a tax charge at the effective annual rate.
Underlying as a measure of operating profit is defined in Note 1 B ii.
Average Invested Capital comprises an average of the net assets at the start and end of the year of the Group adjusted to add back net debt, cumulative goodwill impairment charges and defined benefit pension scheme net deficits.
There is also an adjustment to adjust net debt to reflect a seasonal average cash balance.
Calculations for the current and prior years are: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 Note m m Underlying operating profit Consolidated income statement 443 398 Taxation at the underlying effective rate of 28% 124 111 Underlying NOPAT 319 287 Net assets Consolidated balance sheet 2,286 2,596 Net debt 26 338 136 Adjustment for seasonal cash balances 300 300 Cumulative goodwill impairment charge 2009: Sunsail Clubs 7m 2008: TUIFly 112m 10 119 112 Defined benefit pension net deficit 5C 500 253 Invested Capital 3,543 3,397 Average Invested Capital 3,470 3,430 ROIC 9.2% 8.4% www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 115 The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
An analysis of net debt at the year end is in Note 26.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions.
Compliance with these regulations is mandatory for the relevant operating businesses in those countries in order that they are able to continue trading.
Key countries with such mandatory capital requirements are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Canada and Australia.
The capital requirements in these countries comprise maintaining minimum equity net asset levels in operating subsidiaries.
All such capital requirements were complied with as at 30 September 2009.
None of these requirements are individually or collectively significant to the overall Group and do not place any significant restriction on the Groups funding or operations.
L Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
The sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions: Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments: Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at fair value: Changes in market interest, currency and fuel rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all hedges are expected to be highly effective: and Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the income statement and equity of a 1% 100 basis points difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel prices, from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant.
Interest rate risk Under the above assumptions, a 100bp increase in interest rates would not result in any material change in the consolidated income statement or equity 2008: 5m.
Currency risk Similarly, under the above assumptions, with a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all principal exchange rates, loss before tax would have reduced by 4m September 2008: loss reduced by 24m or increased by 5m 2008: profit increased by 29m, respectively principally relating to the translation of the income statement of overseas subsidiaries.
Equity before tax would have decreased by 376m 2008: 204m or increased by 376m 2008: 249m, respectively.
Fuel price risk The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are more or less volatile.
Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy and appropriate pricing adjustments.
Equity before tax would increase by 70m 2008: 108m, or decrease by 70m 2008: 142m, respectively.
M Litigation risk The Group has a policy to mitigate the financial risk of litigation and disaster through the use of captive insurance companies and insurance with third party providers.
The Groups exposure to risk is capped by single event and aggregate limits, with insurance in place for exposures above these limits.
The Group provides for outstanding claims, including settlement expenses, using a consistent methodology based upon historical claims patterns, average claims amounts, external legal advice and future expectations.
com 116 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Movements in cash and net debt CashAmounts Other and cash due to financial equivalents related parties Bank loans Loan notes Finance leases liabilities Total m m m m m m m At 1 October 2007 1,959 1,400 553 28 178 37 237 Cash movement 951 778 400 21 26 274 Non-cash movement 23 1 11 4 39 Foreign exchange 122 195 17 1 24 4 119 Arising on acquisition 15 15 At 30 September 2008 1,130 840 185 9 187 45 136 Cash movement 352 91 143 6 22 23 67 Non-cash movement 4 29 2 12 11 Foreign exchange 16 120 8 1 26 5 144 Arising on acquisition 1 1 2 At 30 September 2009 790 840 51 6 192 39 338 Non-cash movements in respect of other financial liabilities arise from the issue of a put option in respect of minority interest shares Note 12.
Operating lease commitments Total Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows: Land Aircraft, Land Aircraft, and yachts and and yachts and buildings equipment buildings equipment 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 190 406 153 341 Between one and five years 444 962 414 825 Later than five years 240 230 275 166 Total 874 1,598 842 1,332 Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings principally comprise commitments in respect of the Groups retail estate.
The future commitment under the Groups floating rate aircraft operating leases at 30 September 2009 was 120m 2008: 34m.
The increase in total aircraft lease commitments year-on-year reflects the movement in the US$ exchange rate since September 2008, and the extension of eight leases on the Thomson aircraft fleet.
In total the Group operates 128 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2009 2008: 128 aircraft.
Yachts are held on operating leases in TUI Marine as part of the Groups Sunsail and The Moorings fleets.
Capital and other commitments Capital commitments 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 The Groups capital commitments are as follows: m m Contracted but not provided for 22 60 In addition to the above items, at the year end the Group had contracted to purchase 50 aircraft with initial deliveries to start in the last quarter of the calendar year 2010.
At list price, the total order value was US$6,156m.
On 3 October 2009, a Group company signed a contract which cancelled 10 of the aircraft which had been on order.
The remaining 40 aircraft, at list price, have a total order value of US$4,316m.
The Group intends to refinance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore does not expect to use its own cash resources for their purchase.
The Groups joint ventures and associates had no material capital commitments at 30 September 2009 2008: nil.
Other commitments On 29 September 2009, the Group announced a joint venture transaction with Sunwing Travel Group Inc.
Under the terms of the deal, TUI Travel will contribute its Canadian operations plus CAD101m and Sunwing will contribute its operations to the joint venture.
TUI Travel will receive a 49% interest in the joint venture with Sunwings owners receiving 51%.
The deal is subject to regulatory and competition approvals which are in the process of being sought.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 117 29.
Contingent liabilities The Group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.
No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2009 are expected to have a material effect on these accounts.
The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
Related party transactions Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, TUI Travel PLC, in carrying out its ordinary business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate parent company, TUI AG.
These companies delivered services to companies in the Group.
The Group also undertook transactions with its joint ventures and associated companies.
These transactions related primarily to incoming agencies and hotel companies used by the Groups tour operators.
The income and expenses arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are included within the appropriate sector revenue or costs as presented in the segmental analysis.
All transactions with related parties were executed on an arms length basis and under normal conditions of trade with independent third parties.
Shareholder loan A shareholder loan was advanced to the Company by TUI AG on 3 September 2007.
The loan bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, currently 1.5% per annum, increasing six-monthly by 0.2% to a maximum of 2.0% per annum.
The Company can make voluntary repayments at any time during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of 10m and the giving of 30 days notice.
The drawn balance of the loan at 30 September 2009 was 919m 30 September 2008: 1,019m, not including accrued interest payable.
It is repayable in three instalments: 1 April 2010, 250m: 1 December 2010, 509m and 30 April 2011, 160m.
Hotel Framework Agreement As part of the relationship arrangements between the Company and TUI AG at the time of the business combination, both parties entered into the Hotel Framework Agreement, which governs the commercial relationship between TUI AG and the Company in respect of the distribution of hotel beds forming part of the hotel portfolio interests retained by TUI AG.
Under the Hotel Framework Agreement, TUI Deutschland TUI Travel German tour operating business continues to have access to the Robinson hotel portfolio and to the distribution of such portfolios hotel beds in Europe on the basis of the existing levels of exclusivity and seasonal arrangements between TUI Deutschland and Robinson, as practised prior to the business combination.
In addition, TUI Deutschland agrees to provide the same services in relation to the distribution of the beds as it did prior to the business combination and shall be entitled to use certain Robinson trademarks in connection with these services.
The Hotel Framework Agreement expires on 31 October 2011, provided that one year prior to such expiry the parties shall discuss in good faith and endeavour to agree a replacement agreement.
Trademark Licence Agreement The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI Tourism Group in relation to TUI Tourisms use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AGs portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI Tourisms business.
Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02% of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee under the relevant trademarks measured over a three-year period.
Total licence fees charged in the year ended 30 September 2009 were 3m 2008: 3m.
Each licences standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on the same terms.
Details of transactions with related parties and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below: Revenue Expenses Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Related party Ultimate parent TUI AG 7 4 71 78 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 5 2 384 349 Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 8 19 63 31 Joint ventures and associates of the Group 7 18 151 21 Total 27 43 669 479 www.
com 118 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Receivables outstanding Payables outstanding Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Related party Ultimate parent TUI AG 6 107 885 840 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG 1 3 56 52 Other subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG 6 5 14 12 Joint ventures and associates of the Group 13 20 19 13 Total 26 135 974 917 Payables outstanding with related parties are reported in Notes 19 and 20 and receivables outstanding are reported in Note 16.
In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group and the Group Management Board were related parties whose remuneration had to be listed separately.
The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel including Directors was as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Short term employee benefits 17 18 Post-retirement benefits 2 2 Share-based payments 10 7 Total 29 27 Details of Directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
Key accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under Adopted IFRSs requires the Group to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the year.
The Group evaluates its estimates and judgements on an on-going basis.
Such estimates and judgements are based upon historical experience and other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from estimates.
Management has discussed with the Audit Committee the development, selection and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates and the applications of these policies and estimates.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in respect of the following areas: A Estimates Intangible assets goodwill carrying value A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangibles balances held across the Group on a cash generating unit basis.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
Further details, including sensitivity analysis, are given in Note 10 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 P. Defined benefit pension plans A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Groups obligations under defined benefit pension schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions.
These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the long timescales involved.
In particular, the valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation.
In reviewing the work of the qualified independent actuary management were required to exercise judgement to satisfy themselves that appropriate weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the actual assumptions used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in Note 5 C. Derivative financial instruments Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast transactions, both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments can also involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value of such items.
Details of sensitivity analysis are set out in Note 25 L. www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 119 B Judgements Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Such items are included within the income statement caption to which they relate Notes 3 and 4.
Other asset carrying values Management perform an assessment at each balance sheet date of all material assets across the Group for signs of impairment.
Key judgement areas include the carrying values of land and buildings, aircraft, ships, yachts and motorboats, trade receivables and prepaid accommodation.
The recovery of these assets is dependent on estimated future cash flows receivable and the provision of future services or goods by third parties.
Useful economic lives and residual values are subject to regular management review.
Business combinations Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets, being brands, orders books and customer databases, and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets.
Judgement and estimation is also required in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions.
Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 13.
Liabilities In accounting for provisions, judgement is required in determining occurrence probability, maturity and level of risk.
Judgement and estimation is required in determining aircraft maintenance, restructuring and onerous lease provisions.
Due to the volume of transactions and the materiality of period end accruals, judgement is also required in respect of the recognition and derecognition of airline and accommodation operating accruals.
Details of provisions made and the basis on which the provision has been calculated is disclosed in Note 21 and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 T. Share-based payments Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the awards term, the risk-free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of the Companys shares.
Details of share-based payments and the assumptions applied are disclosed in Note 5 D and the accounting policy is set out in Note 1 Y ix.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale The classification of non-current assets and disposal groups as held for sale requires judgement in determining whether the planned disposal is highly probable and able to be realised within 12 months.
The measurement of held for sale assets at their fair value less costs to sell can also require significant judgement if there is no active market.
Lease accounting Judgement is required in the initial classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, in respect of finance leases, determining the appropriate discount rate implicit in the lease to discount minimum lease payments.
In respect of certain leases classified as finance leases, it has not been possible to reliably estimate lessors residual values and management has been required to independently estimate an appropriate discount rate.
Judgement is also required in respect of the treatment of gains and losses arising on the sale and leaseback of assets Note 11.
The accounting policy for leases is set out in Notes 1 G, 1 H and 1 Q.
Taxation The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising from trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas jurisdictions.
After taking appropriate external advice, the Group makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measurable.
Judgement is also required in the assessment of the future recoverability of tax losses and recognition of deferred tax assets.
Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14.
Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments Judgements have been made in respect of the volumes of future trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in order to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments made to those hoteliers.
com 120 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Principal operating subsidiaries Other than as stated below, all the principal operating subsidiaries listed are wholly owned.
Principal operating subsidiaries are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Groups results and net assets during the year.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Group as a whole.
All of the subsidiaries have only ordinary share capital except for First Choice Canada Inc. which also has unlimited preference shares all of which are owned by the Group.
TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream Sector, Northern Region to reflect its principal operations but the Company also includes certain UK Activity and Specialist businesses at 30 September 2009.
Subsidiary Country Nature of business Mainstream Sector Mainstream Northern Region Falcon Leisure Group Overseas Limited Eire Tour operator First Choice Holidays Finance Limited United Kingdom Treasury operation First Choice Canada Inc Canada Tour operator Sunshine Cruises Limited trading as Island Cruises Ltd United Kingdom Cruise vessel operator Thomson Airways Limited United Kingdom Airline TUI Nordic Holding AB Sweden Tour operator TUI UK Limited United Kingdom Tour operator TUI UK Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden Airline Mainstream Central Europe Berge und Meer Touristik GmbH Germany Tour operator Hapag-Lloyd Express GmbH Germany Airline Hapag-Lloyd Fluggesellschaft mbH Germany Airline LTUR Tourismus AG 70% Germany Tour operator TUI Suisse AG Switzerland Tour operator TUI Austria Holding GmbH Austria Tour operator TUI Aviation GmbH Germany Leasing company TUI Deutschland GmbH Germany Tour operator TUI Leisure Travel GmbH Germany Travel agent TUI sterreich GmbH Austria Tour operator Mainstream Western Europe Groupe Marmara SAS France Tour operator Groupe Nouvelles Frontires S. A. S. France Tour operator JetAir N. V. Belgium Tour operator Socit dInvestissement Arien S. A. Jet4You Morocco Airline TUI Airlines Belgium N. V. Belgium Airline TUI Airlines Nederland B. V. Netherlands Airline TUI Travel Belgium N. V. Belgium Tour operator TUI Nederland N. V. Netherlands Tour operator Jet4You is held for sale at 30 September 2009.
Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector Aventuria SA France Tour operator Caradonna Dive Adventures, Inc USA Tour operator Citalia Holidays Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Country Walkers, Inc USA Tour operator Educational Tours, Inc USA Tour operator EEFC, Inc USA Tour operator Hayes & Jarvis Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator I Viaggi del Turchese Srl Italy Tour operator International Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Les Tours Jumpstreet Tours Inc Canada Tour operator Meon Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator National Events Inc. USA Tour operator Royal Vacaciones SL Spain Tour operator Starquest Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator StudentCity.
com, Inc USA Tour operator TCS Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Tourinter SA France Tour operator TRAVCOA Corporation USA Tour operator Travel Adventures, Inc. USA Tour operator Travelmood Limited United Kingdom Long haul travel Your Man Tours, Inc USA Tour operator www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 121 Subsidiary Country Nature of business Activity Sector Adventure Tours Australia Group Pty Limited Australia Tour operator Australian Sports Tours Pty Ltd Australia Tour operator CHS Tour Services Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Crown Blue Line Limited United Kingdom Tour operator EAC Language Centres UK Limited United Kingdom Language teaching Edwin Doran Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Exodus Travels Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Gullivers Sports Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Mariner International Travel, Inc USA Tour operator MyPlanet International A S Denmark Tour operator Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd Australia Tour operator Quark Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Real Travel Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sportsworld Group Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Student Skiing Limited formerly On The Piste.
com Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Sunsail Worldwide Sailing Limited United Kingdom Tour operator The Moorings Limited British Virgin Islands Tour operator Williment World Travel Limited New Zealand Tour operator World Challenge Holdings Limited United Kingdom Tour operator Yachts International Limited British Virgin Islands Tour operator Zegrahm Expeditions, Inc USA Tour operator Accommodation & Destinations Sector Hotelbeds SLU Spain Online accommodation Hotelbeds Spain SLU Spain Destination services Hotelbeds Product, SLU Spain Online accommodation Hotelbeds USA, Inc USA Destination services Late Rooms Limited United Kingdom Late accommodation Tantur Turizem Seyahat A. S. Turkey Destination services TUI Espaa Turismo S. A. Spain Destination services TUI Hellas Travel Tourism and Airlines AE.
com 122 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Loss earnings per share The basic loss earnings per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share ownership trusts.
The diluted earnings per share is calculated on the result attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes account of the outstanding share awards, where their conversion is dilutive.
The additional earnings per share measures have been given to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations is as follows 2009 2008 Loss Weighted average Loss earnings Loss Weighted average Loss earnings earnings number of shares per share earnings number of shares per share m Millions Pence m Millions Pence Basic and diluted loss per share 11 1,107 1.0 271 1,109 24.4 Amortisation of business combination intangibles, and impairment of goodwill net of tax 47 4.3 174 15.7 Separately disclosed items net of tax 227 20.5 323 29.1 Basic underlying earnings per share 263 1,107 23.8 226 1,109 20.4 Effect of dilutive options 11 0.3 9 0.2 Diluted underlying earnings per share 263 1,118 23.5 226 1,118 20.2 Basic and diluted loss per share from the discontinued operation is as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted average Loss Weighted average Earnings Loss number of shares per share Earnings number of shares per share m Millions Pence m Millions Pence Basic and diluted loss per share 14 1,107 1.3 1,109 For statutory measures of loss per share, in both the current and prior year the effect of options is anti-dilutive.
The anti-dilutive effect is not taken into account and basic loss per share and diluted loss per share are both disclosed as 1.0 p 2008: 24.4 p for continuing operations and 1.3 p 2008: nil p for the discontinued operation.
The diluting effect of options in 2009 and 2008 is included solely to calculate diluted underlying earnings per share.
Post balance sheet events The following events after 30 September 2009 are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements: Acquisitions: details of acquisitions since the balance sheet date are set out in Note 13: Trade investments: details of the investment in Air Berlin are set out in Note 12: Convertible bond issue: details are provided in Note 1 B v and Note 25 F Funding and liquidity: and Capital commitments: on 3 October 2009 an agreement was reached with Boeing to cancel 10 of the B787 aircraft the Group had on order.
Details are provided in Note 28.
Ultimate parent company The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover Federal Republic of Germany.
At 30 September 2009 TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 52.54% of the ordinary share capital of the Company on a fully diluted basis.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group.
The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 30 September previously 31 December.
Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered office of this company situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
