124 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the Companys financial statements A.
Accounting policies Investments In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are Basis of preparation stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Dividends received and The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in receivable are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less Accounting convention attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any applicable UK accounting standards and under the historical cost differences between cost and redemption value being recognised convention.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an concern basis, which assumes that the Company will continue in effective interest rate basis.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Classification of financial instruments issued The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and only to the extent that they meet the following conditions: they loss account.
The loss after tax included in the financial statements include no contractual obligation upon the Company to deliver cash of the Company determined in accordance with the Act, was 33m or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial 14-month period ended 30 September 2008: profit of 376m.
liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially Under Financial Reporting Standard No 1 revised, the Company is unfavourable to the Company and: where the instrument will or may exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement as its be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a cash flows are included within the published consolidated statement non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of cash flows of TUI Travel PLC.
of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
FRS 8 and has not therefore disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of its Group.
Derivative financial instruments The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or FRS 29 and has not provided the required financial instruments loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in disclosure on the basis that the Groups consolidated financial the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge statements include consolidated IFRS 7 disclosures which are accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the compliant with the requirements of FRS 29. nature of the item being hedged.
Foreign currencies Share-based payment Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign The Company operates share-based payment schemes for the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets employees of its subsidiaries.
The fair value of shares awarded to and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with date are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at a corresponding increase in equity.
The employee expense is recharged that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are to fellow Group subsidiaries.
The Company grants awards of its own recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and shares to the employees of its subsidiaries and as such recognises liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the the equity-settled share-based payment charge recognised in its transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in subsidiaries financial statements with the corresponding credit being foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to recognised directly in equity.
The fair value is measured at the award Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values date and is spread over the period during which the employee were determined.
becomes unconditionally entitled to the awards.
Calculating the fair value takes into account various factors including the expected Leases volatility of the shares, the dividend yield and the risk free interest Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding rate.
Further information on the share schemes is provided in Note 5 future lease obligations are shown in payables.
Operating lease rentals to the consolidated financial statements.
are charged to the profit and loss account on a straightline basis over The increase in investments and credit to equity for the year ended the period of the lease.
30 September is 16m 14-month period ended 30 September Operating lease income is recognised in the profit and loss account on 2008: 14m.
a straightline basis over the period of the lease.
Transactions of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are included in the Companys financial statements.
In particular, the trusts purchases and sales of shares in the Company are debited and credited directly to equity.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 125 Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit or loss for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise when items of income and expenditure are included in tax computations in periods different from their inclusion in the financial statements.
Dividend on shares presented within shareholders funds Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability and deducted from equity in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Auditors remuneration The Companys 2009 audit fee was 25,000 2008: 25,000.
Directors remuneration and employees Details of Directors remuneration, gains made by them on vesting of share awards, amounts receivable by them under long term incentive schemes and pension entitlements in the current year and prior period are contained in the audited section of the Remuneration Report and in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Company had nine employees 2008: nine.
Details of all share awards issued by the Company are given in Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements.
C. Dividends Details of dividends paid and proposed by the Company in the current year and prior period and details of dividends proposed subsequent to the balance sheet date are given in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.
D. Investments Shares in subsidiaries m Cost At 1 October 2008 706 Acquisitions 9 Additions 16 Recapitalisation of group companies 184 Disposals 4 At 30 September 2009 911 Provision for diminution in value At 30 September 2008 and at 30 September 2009 Net book value At 30 September 2009 911 At 30 September 2008 706 Additions represent share-based payment liabilities incurred.
The costs of the share-based schemes, which are operated for employees of the Companys subsidiaries, are borne by the subsidiaries, subject to local accounting standards.
The Company recognises an increase in the investment in the subsidiary and a credit to retained earnings, in accordance with FRS 20: Share-based Payment.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries held directly and indirectly by the Company and of companies acquired in the year ended 30 September 2009 can be found in Notes 13 and 32 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Recapitalisation of Group companies relates to 184m invested in Touraventura S. A. during the restructure of certain of the French companies to combine two existing tax groups during the year.
E. Debtors 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Amounts owed by group undertakings 234 546 Other receivables 1 Total 234 547 www.
com 126 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements Notes to the Companys financial statements continued F. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Loan notes 2 Amounts owed to group undertakings 55 61 Amounts owed to ultimate parent company 252 Deferred and contingent consideration 4 4 Accruals and deferred income 3 Total 311 70 G. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Loan notes 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 132 Amounts owed to group undertakings 3 Amounts owed to ultimate parent 611 840 Deferred and contingent consideration 20 22 Total 631 998 Amounts owed to the ultimate parent at 30 September 2009 comprise a shareholder loan from the ultimate parent, TUI AG, which is being repaid in instalments over the period to April 2011 and bears interest at EURIBOR plus a margin, currently 1.5% per annum, increasing six-monthly by 0.2% to a maximum of 2.0% per annum.
The Company can make voluntary repayments at any time during the term of the loan subject to a minimum repayment of 10m and the giving of 30 days notice.
The drawn balance of the loan at 30 September 2009 was 919m of which 669m is due in more than one year 2008: 1,019m, all due in more than one year, not including accrued interest payable.
All balances repayable after more than one year are due within one to two years.
Capital and reserves Share Profit capital and loss Other Total account account reserve m m m m At 1 August 2007 Profit for the period 376 376 Issue of shares 112 112 Share issue costs 24 24 Share-based payment costs 14 14 Shares acquired to satisfy share-based payment schemes 20 20 Dividends paid 65 65 At 30 September 2008 112 267 14 393 Loss for the year 33 33 Share-based payment costs 16 16 Dividends paid 107 107 At 30 September 2009 112 127 30 269 At 30 September 2009, shareholders funds are all due to equity shareholders.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 127 J.
Operating lease commitments The Companys obligations under operating lease contracts are as follows: Aircraft Aircraft 30 September 30 September 2009 2008 m m Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: After five years 7 Total 7 All operating lease commitments relate to aircraft.
Aircraft leased by the Company are sub-leased to subsidiary undertakings on similar terms.
On 9 June 2009 all aircraft leases were novated to a fellow group company, TUI Aviation Finance Limited, which was incorporated for this purpose.
K. Contingent liabilities Under the terms of guarantees given to the Civil Aviation Authority and other relevant authorities by the Company in respect of certain subsidiaries, in the event of default the Company could be held liable to the extent of the subsidiaries net trading liabilities at the time of default.
The Company, and its subsidiaries, is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.
No actions which are outstanding at 30 September 2009 are expected to have a material effect on these accounts.
The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
L. Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events relevant to the Company and its Group are given in Note 34 of the consolidated financial statements.
