Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued Mauritania and Senegal Other Africa operations Gross production from the offshore Chinguetti Equatorial Guinea field averaged approximately 10,750 bopd for 2009.
Gross combined production from the Okume Production has declined in line with expectations Complex and Ceiba fields averaged approximately through the year and has recently stabilised due 106,000 bopd in 2009.
Two rigs drilled five development to high facilities uptime and prudent reservoir wells on the Okume Complex during the year in order management.
Potential for further drilling in 2010 to maintain plateau production.
Drilling activities are and beyond continues to be evaluated.
Work is expected to continue into the second half of 2010 ongoing to review the development options that with nine wells planned.
A time-lapse 4-D seismic would allow commercialisation of the Banda gas survey is planned for 2010 over both fields to identify field.
The development options are currently under infill targets and optimise well locations.
discussion with the Mauritanian Government to ensure that they meet both partner and Gabon Government objectives.
Net production from Tullows Gabon assets averaged 12,000 bopd in 2009.
During the year Tullow exercised A planned break in exploration drilling has provided its back-in rights on the Ebouri and Onal fields thereby time to complete a thorough two-year regional basin adding 1,200 bopd of net production.
Production was and prospectivity review.
From this review numerous also supported by successful workovers on the Echira plays, leads and prospects have emerged.
The new and Niungo fields.
Niungo production is expected to prospects are unrelated to the established thin be further enhanced during 2010 with four horizontal Miocene reservoir plays, such as at Chinguetti, infill wells planned.
In total, 39 production wells are which were pursued by previous operators and planned on the Groups Gabon assets in 2010 and which proved difficult to develop.
Instead, Tullow net production is expected to average 12,400 bopd.
is drawing on its Equatorial Atlantic successes to target high-impact Cretaceous prospectivity.
Tullow completed the acquisition of a 1,300 sq km 3D seismic survey in the Kiarsseny block and In Mauritania two exploration wells are planned for 2010 ahead of further exploration activity seismic reprocessing and interpretative work in the Azobe block where the Noix fide Coco prospect planned for 2011 and 2012. has been identified for drilling in 2010.
In February Tanzania the Maroc-Nord-1 exploration well discovered 50 Tullow has interests in the onshore Lindi and metres of net oil pay in an emerging under-explored Mtwara blocks in the frontier Ruvuma Basin in stratigraphic trap play which will be brought into the southern Tanzania.
Following interpretation of newly Onal area development and followed-up through reprocessed seismic data, Likonde-1 was selected as further exploration and appraisal drilling.
the first well to establish the potential of a possible Cte dIvoire new oil play fairway.
The well commenced drilling in Gross production from the East and West Espoir January 2010 and a result is expected in late March fields was in line with expectations in 2009, averaging 2010.
Further evaluation planned for 2010 includes 23,550 boepd.
A planned upgrade to the processing reprocessing the seismic dataset and incorporating capacity of the FPSO was deferred in 2009 and and interpreting the new drilling results, the is now scheduled for mid-2010.
The upgrade will outcome of which will influence the forward provide capacity for future incremental production exploration programme.
projects including an infill drilling campaign Namibia planned for 2011 12.
In Namibia, progress is being made to reinvigorate Congo Brazzaville the development of the 1.3 tcf offshore Kudu field.
An active reservoir management programme on Inter-governmental talks between Russia, Namibia the onshore MBoundi field was initiated in 2008 and and South Africa have taken place in an attempt to continued throughout 2009 focusing on development move forward the development via a gas-to-power drilling and a water injection upgrade.
This has resulted in Gazprom announcing land rigs, a total of 18 producers and five injection its plans to build an 800 MW power station.
Eskom, wells were drilled during the year and the water the South African power utility, will be the targeted injection rate was increased from 46,000 to 60,000 buyer of electricity that is surplus to Namibias bwipd.
Gross field production during 2009 averaged requirements.
Tullow fully supports this initiative 39,500 bopd.
In 2010, the combination of the 35 new to commercialise Kudu gas and is working with wells and an increase in water injection capacity the Ministry, Gazprom and the existing partners to 200,000 bwipd by the end of the second quarter, to progress this new initiative.
Should this initiative is expected to increase gross average production proceed as planned, Tullow will be Upstream Operator to 42,000 bopd.
and will reduce its equity to around 30%.
com 47 Directors Report: Business review Jonathan Leather, Geologist Dublin Nhlanhla Kubheka, Geophysicist Cape Town Dublin office, Ireland 5 Developing a significant asset base worldwide We have important assets in Europe, South Asia and South America which contribute to Group production and cash flow and form part of an exploration portfolio that offers longer-term growth opportunities.
Europe 51 Tullow has mature production in the UK Southern North Sea and hopes to leverage its understanding of this play in the adjacent Carboniferous province offshore the Netherlands.
South Asia 52 The demand for energy in Asia is strong and this region has excellent growth potential through exploration.
Tullow has good opportunities in Pakistan, where the Group has a significant non-operated position.
South America 53 We are seeking to replicate the success of the Jubilee field throughout the Equatorial Atlantic region with a focus on the Transform Margin stretching from Guyana through Suriname to French Guiana.
