Supplementary information Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Electronic communication All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification Shareholders have the option to receive shareholder of change of address, loss of a share certificate or dividend communications including annual reports and notices of payments should be made to the Companys registrars, meetings electronically.
Tullow actively supports Woodland Trust, Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
Computershare, details are as follows: together with Woodland Trust, has established eTree, an environmental programme designed to promote electronic Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholder communications.
Under this programme, the The Pavilions Company makes a donation to eTree for every shareholder Bridgwater Road who registers for electronic communication.
To register for Bristol this service, simply visit www.
com tullowoilplc with BS99 6ZZ your shareholder number and email address to hand.
co. uk contactus Once registered, shareholders will be emailed when an annual report or notice of meeting is available for Telephone number UK shareholders: 0870 703 6242 viewing on the Tullow website.
Telephone number Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 216 3744 Telephone number other shareholders: 00 44 870 703 6242 Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any unsolicited A range of shareholder frequently asked questions and practical financial advice: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of help on transferring shares and updating details is available free company reports.
More detailed information can be found online in the Shareholder Services section located in the at www.
uk and in the Shareholder Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Computershare online enquiry service Computershare provides a range of services through its online ShareGift portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge If you have a small number of shares whose value makes at www.
This service, accessible from it uneconomical to sell you may wish to consider donating them anywhere in the world, enables shareholders to check details to ShareGift.
Any shares donated to ShareGift will be aggregated of their shareholdings or dividends, download forms to and sold when possible with the proceeds donated to a wide notify changes in personal details, and access other range of UK charities.
The relevant share transfer form may relevant information.
Further information about the scheme is available at www.
Payment of dividends Shareholders can have their dividends paid directly into Financial calendar a UK sterling or Irish euro bank account and have the tax Financial year end 31 December 2009 voucher sent directly to their registered address.
You can 2009 Full-year results announced 10 March 2010 register your account details in Investor Centre or, Annual General Meeting 12 May 2010 alternatively download a dividend mandate form.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2010 Overseas shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid 2009 Final dividend payable 21 May 2010 in a local currency can use the Global Payments Service that 2010 Half-yearly results announced 25 August 2010 Computershare has established.
Details of the service can be accessed in the Shareholder Services section of the Investors 2010 Interim dividend payable November 2010 area of the Tullow website: www.
Interim Management Statement November 2010 Share dealing service A telephone share dealing service has been established for shareholders with Computershare for the sale and purchase of Tullow Oil shares.
Shareholders who are interested in using this service can obtain further details by calling the appropriate telephone number below: UK shareholders: 0870 703 0084 Irish shareholders: 00 353 1 41 270 3203 Other shareholders : 00 44 141 270 3203 Further details of the terms applying to the service can also be obtained from the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area of the Tullow website: www.
Kindly note, this service cannot be offered to residents of any territories where such offers are not permitted by local securities regulations or other regulatory requirements.
It is the responsibility of shareholders outside the European Union who wish to use this service to ensure compliance with local law and regulatory requirements.
If you are in any doubt you should consult an appropriate professional advisor.
