Section 3: Financial statements 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2009 1.
General information United Business Media Limited UBML is a company incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The address of the registered office is Whiteley Chambers, Don Street, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBML is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 3.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised for issue on behalf of the Board of Directors and signed on the Boards behalf by David Levin on 5 March 2010.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all amounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been restated for acquisition accounting adjustments which have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions made in 2008.
The comparative information has been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The impact of this restatement is to increase goodwill, property, plant and equipment, cash and cash equivalents and accruals and deferred income by 0.8m, 0.7m, 0.2m and 1.6m respectively, with a corresponding reduction in prepayments and accrued income by 0.1m.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
Management continually evaluate these estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available information and experience.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity include business segments, deferred tax assets, intangible assets and retirement benefit obligations.
The areas requiring management estimates include current tax liabilities, impairment of goodwill and provisions.
Changes to the composition of the Group Year ended 31 December 2009 The Group has made a number of acquisitions in the year as disclosed in Note 29.
These acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Year ended 31 December 2008 On 1 July 2008, as part of a reorganisation of the corporate structure of the Group, UBML was created as a new holding company and parent company of the Group.
UBML is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with its tax residence in the Republic of Ireland.
United Business Media plc UBM plc became a subsidiary of UBML.
The former UBM plc shareholders were issued new shares in UBML on a one-for-one basis following a Scheme of Arrangement the Scheme under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 which was approved by UBM plc shareholders.
Immediately following the Scheme, the former shareholders of UBM plc held the same economic interest in UBML as they held in UBM plc immediately prior to its implementation.
The acquisition of UBM plc by UBML falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Following the guidance regarding the selection of an appropriate accounting policy provided by IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors, the transaction was accounted for in the comparative period of these financial statements using the pooling of interests method, which reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRIC interpretations.
The financial statements are prepared in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of UBML and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Contingent consideration is recognised if, and only if, the Group has a present obligation, the economic outflow is more likely than not and a reliable estimate is determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration affect the recorded goodwill.
The minority interest is measured as the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Where an additional share of a subsidiary is purchased, the Group uses the entity concept method to account for the additional interest.
The difference between the cost of the additional interest and the carrying value of the minority interests share of net assets on the date of acquisition is reflected in equity as a transaction between owners and does not affect previously recognised goodwill.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 62 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued b Associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
These are entities in which the Group has significant influence by the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The financial statements of the associates are used by the Group to apply the equity method.
The reporting dates of the associates and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associates.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
c Joint ventures The Groups interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
These are entities over which the Group has entered into a contractual agreement with a third party to share control.
The reporting dates of the joint ventures and the Group are identical and the accounts are prepared on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
Under the equity method, the income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the Group recognises its share of any changes.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables that form part of the net investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: The Group has adopted a number of new, revised and amended IAS, IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2009.
Adoption of the following new and revised standards has affected the presentation and disclosure in the financial statements of the Group, but has had no effect on the amounts reported: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial statements revised IAS 36 Impairment of Assets part of Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendment IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 Operating Segments amendment The principal effects of these changes are as follows: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised The Group adopted this revised standard on 1 January 2009.
The revision separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity includes only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income to be presented either as a single statement, or as two linked statements.
The Group has elected to present two statements.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets When discounted cash flows are used to estimate fair value less costs to sell, additional disclosure is required about the discount rate, consistent with disclosures required when discounted cash flows are used to estimate value in use.
For those cash-generating units where the Group is required to compute the recoverable amount, fair value less costs to sell is used on an earnings multiples approach.
Where the fair value less costs to sell test does not demonstrate that the recoverable amount is in excess of the carrying amount, the cash-generating unit is tested under value in use.
This improvement does not have any impact on the presentation of the financial statements in the current year.
Additional disclosures will be included in the future where applicable.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures As of 1 January 2009, the Group adopted this amendment which requires increased disclosures about fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
Fair value measurements related to items recorded at fair value are to be disclosed by source of inputs using a three-level fair value hierarchy, by class, for all financial instruments recognised at fair value.
The amendments also clarify the requirements for liquidity risk disclosures with respect to derivative transactions and assets used for liquidity management.
The fair value measurement and liquidity risk disclosures are presented in Note 21.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in the amendment.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments The Group adopted IFRS 8 as of 1 January 2009.
This new standard requires disclosure of information about the Groups operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Group.
Adoption of this Standard did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group determined that the four operating and reportable segments are Events, Data, Services and Online, Print Magazines and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring.
Additional disclosures about each of these segments are shown in Note 3.
Significant accounting policies continued Changes in accounting policies continued IFRS 8 Operating Segments amendment The Group has adopted early the amendment to IFRS 8 as of 1 January 2009.
The amendment was issued as part of the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009.
It removes the requirement to present segment asset information if it is not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker.
Adoption of this amendment did not have any effect on the financial position or performance of the Group: disclosure of segment assets is not given in the financial statements.
Further details are given in Note 3.
The standards and interpretations adopted in these financial statements which have had no effect on the amounts reported, presentation or disclosure are: IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements amendment IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation amendments IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations amendment IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives amendment IFRIC 15 Agreements for Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 Those standards listed above which have resulted in a change in accounting policy are: IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised The revised IAS 23 requires capitalisation of borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Groups previous policy was to expense borrowing costs as they were incurred.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of the revised IAS 23, the Group has adopted the standard on a prospective basis.
It applies to borrowing costs arising on qualifying assets where the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009.
It did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group in 2009.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations amendment This amendment specifies that only service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
It also prescribes that all cancellations should result in an acceleration of the vesting period.
The Group has adopted the revised standard on 1 January 2009: it did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The interpretation provides guidance to be applied prospectively on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment.
It provides guidance on identifying foreign currency risks that qualify for hedge accounting in a net investment hedge: which entity in the Group can hold the hedging instruments used in the hedge of a net investment: and how an entity should determine the amount of foreign currency gain or loss, relating to both the net investment and hedging instrument, to be recycled on disposal of the net investment.
The Group has adopted IFRIC 16 on 1 January 2009, it did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 In May 2008, the IASB issued a collection of amendments to its standards, primarily to remove inconsistencies and to clarify wording.
Most of the improvements are effective from 1 January 2009 and there are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: assets and liabilities classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not always required to be presented as current in the statement of financial position.
The Group has assessed whether this would result in any reclassifications of financial instruments between current and non-current in the statement of financial position and determined that it would not.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment: replaces the term net selling price with fair value less costs to sell.
The Group has applied this improvement, although it did not result in any changes to the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 23 Borrowing costs: the definition of borrowing costs is revised to consolidate the two types of items that are considered components of borrowing costs into one the interest expense calculated in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group has amended its accounting policy accordingly which did not result in a change to the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 38 Advertising and promotional activities: the improvements clarify that an entity is permitted to recognise a prepayment asset for advertising or promotional expenditure only up to the point at which the entity has the right to access the goods purchase or services received.
Mail order catalogues have been specifically identified as a form of advertising and promotional activities.
Clarification of this standard has not resulted in any changes to the financial position or performance of the Group.
Other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied and for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the prevailing monthly exchange rate throughout the year.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity, which was set to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services, net of trade discounts, VAT, other sales related taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: For sales of services, revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to stage of completion of the specific transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
For sales of goods, revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Events: Revenue is recognised upon event completion.
Advance deposits are recorded as deferred income on the balance sheet.
Data, Services and Online: Directories: Linage and advertising revenue is recognised on delivery of the directory and copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the directory.
Data services: Revenue from data subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Revenue from data projects for immediate delivery is recognised on delivery of the data.
Revenue from data projects is recognised on a percentage completion basis over the life of the project.
Online: Revenue is recognised at the point of delivery or fulfilment for single discrete services and over the life of subscriptions for subscription services.
Print Magazines: Advertising revenue is recognised on publication.
Revenue from subscriptions is recognised over the life of the subscription.
Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring: Revenue from news releases is recognised on message delivery.
Interest and other income a Interest income Income is recognised as the interest accrues using the effective interest rate method: that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
b Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
c Rental Income Rental income arising from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease terms on ongoing leases.
Borrowing costs From 1 January 2009, borrowing costs as calculated under the effective interest method directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
This policy applies to borrowing costs arising on qualifying assets where the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after 1 January 2009.
Borrowing costs arising on qualifying assets where the commencement date for capitalisation is prior to 1 January 2009 have been expensed when incurred.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less any depreciation and any impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on all items except freehold land.
Depreciation rates are calculated so that assets are written down to residual value in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives, which are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property Up to 70 years Leasehold improvements Term of lease General plant, machinery and equipment 520 years Computer equipment 35 years Motor vehicles 35 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the year the asset is derecognised.
The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of the assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each financial year end.
Goodwill and intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination including directly related professional fees over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit CGU.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The impairment review requires management to undertake certain judgements, including estimating the recoverable value of the CGU to which the goodwill relates, based on either fair value less costs to sell or the value in use, in order to reach a conclusion on whether it deems the goodwill to be recoverable.
Estimating the fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available, and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The valuation methods are based on an earnings multiple approach.
The earnings multiple approach uses transaction multiples, obtained from comparable businesses in the professional media sector.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of return on capital employed required in each CGU which is subject to a value in use calculation.
Management is assisted by the work of external advisors in calculating the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs.
Further details are given in Note 12.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and part of the CGU is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposal is included in the net assets attributed to the disposal when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
b Intangible assets Website development costs relating to the application and infrastructure development, graphical design and content development stages incurred with third parties are recognised as assets and measured at cost.
All other internally generated intangible assets, including internally generated software, are recognised as an expense in the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are measured at cost or fair value at the date of acquisition less any amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives as follows: Useful lives Method Brands 10 years Straight line Software 56 years Straight line Customer contracts and relationships 110 years Straight line Subscription lists 25 years Straight line Trademarks 10 years Straight line Databases 210 years Straight line Website development costs 3 years Straight line Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 66 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets that do not individually generate cash flows are assessed as part of the cash-generating unit to which they belong.
Cash-generating units are the lowest levels for which there are cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are valued on the first in first out basis at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises materials and directly attributable production costs.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.
Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
The Group does not have any finance leases.
The Group is also not involved in any arrangements which fall within the scope of IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
a Group as a lessee Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
b Group as a lessor Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Financial instruments Financial assets in the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss derivative financial liabilities or financial liabilities at amortised cost borrowings and trade and other payables.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, and in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, after taking account of directly attributable transaction costs.
a Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 3090 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no expectation of recovery.
For more details refer to Note 18. b Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, deposits and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts which are shown within borrowings.
c Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised at original cost.
d Borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost, and any difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
e Other investments The Group classifies its investments at initial recognition as available-for-sale financial assets.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Listed and unlisted investments are stated at fair value except in respect of unquoted equity investments where there is no active market and where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured at cost less any impairment.
Gains and losses on remeasurement to fair value are included in equity until the investment is disposed of or deemed to be impaired when they are transferred to profit or loss.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market rates of interest.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: or as a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised directly in equity.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
See Note 21 for more details on the Groups cash flow hedges.
In relation to fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the income statement.
Net investment hedges take the form of foreign currency borrowings and forward currency contracts.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and included in cumulative translation differences.
Borrowings and forward currency contracts used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
See Note 21 for more details on the Groups net investment hedges.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in equity are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
g Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset is derecognised where: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to pay.
Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or purchased option including a cash-settled of similar provision on the transferred asset, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the Group may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put option including a cash-settled option or similar provision on an asset measured at fair value, the extent of the Groups continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as derecognition of the original liability and recognition of a new liability, and the difference between the carrying amounts of the original liability and the fair value of the new liability is recognised in the income statement.
Tax The income tax expense represents both the current tax payable, based on profits for the year, and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement or statement of comprehensive income except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the income tax is also charged or credited to equity.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
The Group is a multi-national Group with tax matters in many geographical locations.
This inherently leads to complexity to the Groups tax structure and requires estimation and judgement.
The timing of resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement and tax payments.
The Group has an accrual for tax liabilities which is measured at the directors estimate of tax that may become payable.
These tax accruals are estimates and the actual amounts and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period such determination is made.
For more details refer to Note 9.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pensions The Group sponsors a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
For the defined contribution schemes, the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of employee service rendered during the accounting period are recognised as an expense in that period.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the liability for the benefits earned by employees in return for service rendered in the current and prior periods is determined using the projected unit credit method as determined annually by independent qualified actuaries.
This is based upon a number of financial assumptions, the determination of which is significant to the balance sheet valuation.
These are set out and discussed in Note 24.
The following is charged to operating profit: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the current period: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities as a result of benefit improvements over the period during which such improvements vest: and gains and losses arising on settlements curtailments.
A credit in respect of the expected return on the schemes' assets and a charge in respect of the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes' liabilities because the benefits are one period closer to settlement are shown in the income statement as financing income pension schemes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Defined benefit pension surpluses are recognised where scheme rules indicate that such surpluses are recoverable by the Group in the form of either an unconditional right to refund if the scheme were to be wound up or reductions in future contributions.
Surpluses are expected to be recoverable under all of the UK defined benefit pension schemes.
The minimum funding requirement of the UK defined benefit schemes is included in the assessment of whether an IAS 19 surplus is expected to emerge.
Future tax payable on surplus refunds is shown as an irrecoverable surplus.
Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments Employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
Equity-settled transactions The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to all grants of equity instruments made after 7 November 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the equity instruments granted.
The fair value is determined by an external advisor using the Black Scholes or Monte Carlo methods as appropriate.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the periods in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition or a non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense or increase in equity is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions ie.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the entity or the employees are not met.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, as appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions are estimates and the actual cost and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Management reassesses the amounts of these provisions at each balance sheet date in order to ensure that they are measured at the current best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Any difference between the amounts previously recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Further details are given in Note 23.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Management continually evaluate these judgements, estimates and assumptions based on available information and experience.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity in order to apply the Groups accounting policies are: Business segments see Note 3 Deferred tax assets see Note 9 Intangible assets see Note 13 Retirement benefit obligations see Note 24 The areas requiring management estimates are: Current tax liabilities see Note 9 Impairment of goodwill see Note 12 Provisions see Note 23 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Future changes in accounting policies The following revised IFRSs and IAS have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2009 and are expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised which makes a number of significant changes to the treatment of acquisition costs and contingent consideration relating to an acquisition and provides an option the full goodwill method to recognise 100% of the goodwill of an acquired entity not just the acquiring entitys portion of the goodwill, with corresponding increases to goodwill and minority interests.
This revised standard becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and so the Group will apply it prospectively to all business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010.
The impact of the revised standard is expected to lead to changes in the Groups accounting treatment of acquisition costs, which are currently included within the cost of acquisition, but will need to be expensed.
The standard will also require the Group to estimate contingent consideration at the date of acquisition and include that amount in the cost of acquisition and, hence, affect goodwill.
Any revisions to estimates of contingent consideration are currently reflected with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
However, on adoption of the revised standard, these revisions will be recorded in the income statement.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on the financial statements of the Group.
The new standard becomes effective from 1 January 2013.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised which no longer restricts the allocation to non-controlling interests of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the non-controlling equity investment in the subsidiary.
A partial acquisition or disposal of equity interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a gain or loss of control will be accounted for as an equity transaction and will have no impact on goodwill nor will it give rise to any gain or loss.
Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary, any retained interest will have to be remeasured to fair value, which will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
This revised standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and will be adopted by the Group with IFRS 3 from 1 January 2010.
The impact of the revised standard is expected to lead to changes in the Groups accounting treatment for subsidiary interests.
The following IASs, IFRS and IFRICs have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2009 and are not expected to impact the Groups financial statements upon adoption: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation classification of rights issues, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible hedged items amendment, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 2 Share based Payment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions amendment, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction amended, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009, generally effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
Segment information Business segments The chief operating decision maker CODM for the purpose of IFRS 8 reporting is the executive management team the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The Group considers there to be four reportable operating segments organised around products and services.
The Group operates in a number of different markets and communities and considers that presentation of financial results on a products and services basis is the most appropriate way to demonstrate the performance of the Group.
For the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of performance, the CODM regularly reviews information based on the products and services at a revenue and adjusted operating profit level.
Events which provide face-to-face interaction in the form of exhibitions, trade shows, conferences and other live events: Data, Services and Online which provide a range of services including data-based workflow products, intellectual property consultancy and analytical services, sales lead generation programmes, website sponsorships and banner advertising as well as print and online directory products: Print Magazines which publishes magazines and trade press to specialist markets: and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring which operates in the targeting and distribution of company information and the evaluation of its impact on targeted audiences.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
The Groups management reporting and controlling systems use the accounting policies that are the same as those referred to in Note 2.
Segment information continued Segment measures The Group measures the performance of its operating segments through a measure of segment profit or loss which is referred to as adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit, as defined in the footnote to the Income Statement, represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on results of joint ventures and associates.
This measure is reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of performance.
Interest income, interest expense and income tax expense are not included in the adjusted operating profit measure which is reviewed by the CODM.
Intersegment revenue is recorded at values that represent estimated third party selling prices.
Segment assets and liabilities are not regularly provided to the CODM.
The Group has elected as provided under IFRS 8 Operating Segments amended not to disclose a measure of segment assets or liabilities where these amounts are not regularly provided to the CODM.
With respect to geographical regions, revenue is generally allocated to countries based on the location where the products and services are provided.
Non-current assets are disclosed according to the location of the businesses to which the assets relate.
Year ended 31 December 2009 Depreciation including amortisation Share of Segment of website pre-tax results adjusted External Intersegment Total development from JVs and operating 1 costs revenue revenue revenue associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 287.5 0.4 287.9 3.6 0.8 87.2 Data, Services and Online 232.9 232.9 2.9 0.1 37.9 Print Magazines 165.8 165.8 2.1 0.2 8.9 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 161.4 0.5 161.9 4.2 1.1 44.8 Total segments 847.6 0.9 848.5 12.8 2.2 178.8 Other corporate 0.4 0.5 7.6 Eliminations 0.9 0.9 847.6 847.6 13.2 2.7 171.2 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions 26.8 Impairment charge 153.0 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 16.5 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.7 Group operating loss 25.8 Interest income 1.8 Interest expense 14.8 Financing income 6.9 Financing income other 2.9 Financing expense other 6.7 Loss before tax 35.7 1 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Total corporate costs for 2009 were 15.5m 2008: 15.1m.
The corporate costs are offset by a level of internal cost recoveries from the Groups operating businesses and by sundry income which is not attributable to any of the Groups operations.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 3.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2008 Depreciation including amortisation Share of Segment of website pre-tax results adjusted External Intersegment Total development from JVs and operating 1 revenue revenue revenue costs associates profit loss m m m m m m Events 291.8 0.2 292.0 3.8 0.8 82.2 Data, Services and Online 225.3 225.3 3.0 31.1 Print Magazines 215.6 215.6 2.8 0.5 23.9 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 154.3 154.3 2.9 0.9 43.3 Total segments 887.0 0.2 887.2 12.5 2.2 180.5 Other corporate 0.4 0.4 7.0 Eliminations 0.2 0.2 887.0 887.0 12.9 1.8 173.5 Amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisitions 26.1 Exceptional reorganisation and restructuring costs 37.5 Other exceptional items 1.6 Share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates 0.7 Group operating profit 107.6 Interest income 4.6 Interest expense 11.0 Financing income 4.4 Financing income other 0.3 Financing expense other 4.6 Profit before tax 101.3 1 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Segment information continued Revenue by products and services Revenue from external customers analysed by products and services is given in the above segment tables.
The Groups reportable segments are organised around products and services provided to external customers.
Geographic information Revenues from external customers Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m United Kingdom 129.6 178.3 Foreign countries 1 United States 386.6 421.6 Other Americas 6.1 5.0 Europe and Middle East 163.8 154.1 China 101.4 75.8 Japan 18.5 18.4 Other Asia Pacific 41.6 33.8 718.0 708.7 Total revenue 847.6 887.0 1 United States revenue also includes Canada due to the integrated nature of the business in North America.
Non-current assets 2009 2008 m m United Kingdom 236.6 252.6 Foreign countries 1 United States 426.1 583.0 Other Americas 33.9 44.8 Europe and Middle East 248.8 314.3 China 7.2 8.2 Japan 6.1 13.0 Other Asia Pacific 28.6 32.6 750.7 995.9 Total non-current assets 987.3 1,248.5 1 United States non-current assets also includes Canada due to the integrated nature of the business in North America.
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 4.
Operating expenses 2009 2008 m m Amortisation of website development costs see Note 13 0.9 1.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment see Note 14 12.3 11.5 Employee costs see Note 6 308.8 309.9 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 8.1 10.3 Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense 24.8 19.3 Auditors remuneration 1.5 1.9 Publishing direct costs 86.8 62.5 Event production costs 109.1 66.8 Cost of advertising and promotion 44.4 51.9 Other cost of sales and administration costs 92.1 190.0 688.8 725.5 Included within other cost of sales and administration costs is a charge of 4.0m 2008: 3.1m in relation to the provisions for irrecoverability of trade receivables.
Auditors remuneration 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 1.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Tax services 0.4 0.2 1.5 1.9 Details of the Group policy on non-audit work undertaken by the auditors is given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 51.
Employee costs 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 257.2 254.0 Social security costs 43.3 41.2 Directors and employees share-based payments 2.9 8.4 Pension costs defined contribution plans 4.4 4.7 Pension costs defined benefit plans see Note 24 1.0 1.6 308.8 309.9 Employees The number of persons employed in the Group, including directors, was as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Average Year end Average Year end Location United Kingdom 1,415 1,239 1,527 1,482 Americas 2,423 2,328 3,323 2,733 Europe and Middle East 747 736 747 752 Asia Pacific 1,509 1,512 1,366 1,445 6,094 5,815 6,963 6,412 Business segments Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 1,062 1,051 1,584 1,107 Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines 4,941 4,672 5,261 5,205 Corporate operations 91 92 118 100 6,094 5,815 6,963 6,412 1 Employees are not allocated to individual segments between Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines.
Directors remuneration 2009 2008 m m Fees 0.6 0.5 Remuneration and benefits in kind 1.1 1.0 Bonuses 0.9 1.5 Contributions to pension schemes 0.2 0.2 2.8 3.2 Details of executive and non-executive directors remuneration and their interest in shares and options of the Company are shown within the directors remuneration report in the sections Directors remuneration, Directors pension provision, Awards under long term incentive plans and Directors interests in shares.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are presented separately as, due to their nature or for the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, this allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, to facilitate comparison with prior periods, and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
2009 2008 m m Charged to operating loss profit Reorganisation and restructuring costs Vacant property costs 3.9 11.4 Redundancy 10.5 16.8 Restructuring and business reorganisation costs 2.1 5.1 Change of domicile 4.2 16.5 37.5 Other exceptional items 1.6 Impairment of goodwill see Note 12 149.8 Impairment of joint ventures and associates see Note 15 1.9 Impairment of other investments see Note 16 1.3 Total charged to operating loss profit 169.5 39.1 Charged to loss profit before tax Fair value adjustment early settlement of interest rate swap contracts 6.7 Credited to profit after tax Taxation relating to exceptional items 1.6 Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Total credited to profit after tax 135.2 1.6 Total charged to profit for the year 41.0 37.5 Charged to operating loss profit Year ended 31 December 2009 During 2009, UBM continued to actively manage its product portfolio.
This included the closure and merging of a number of print titles, and a headcount reduction of approximately 500 people.
The exceptional charge of 16.5m includes 10.5m relating to redundancy, 2.1m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation costs and 3.9m relating to vacant property.
The redundancy and restructuring and business reorganisation costs will be substantially incurred by 31 December 2010, and the amount relating to vacant property will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
Total impairment losses of 153.0m have been recognised during the year of which 149.8m relates to goodwill: details are given in Note 12.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates and other investments have been impaired by 1.9m and 1.3m respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2008 In April 2008, UBM announced that it was undertaking a reorganisation of the corporate structure of the Group which would create a new holding company which is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with tax residency in the Republic of Ireland.
The scheme was approved by shareholders on 2 June 2008 and was formally implemented on 1 July 2008.
The exceptional charge of 4.2m represents the professional fees and other costs arising in connection with this change of domicile.
In November 2008, the CPhI India and P-MEC India events were cancelled as a result of the terrorist attacks in Mumbai.
The irrecoverable costs incurred by CMP Asia and CMP Information, which total 1.6m, have been recorded as an exceptional item, classified within other exceptional items.
During the year, UBM reorganised its core operations, replacing the historic divisional structure with a much flatter, market-focused organisation.
In February, UBM Technology was reorganised into four separate market-focused businesses, followed by CMP Information into five businesses in June and Commonwealth Business Media into two businesses in December.
UBM also implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects across the Group.
The objectives of these projects are to achieve greater alignment of product portfolios and organisational structure to the changing needs of customers, to better position the businesses to take advantage of higher growth areas and to improve profitability.
This involved closure and merger of some print titles and a headcount reduction of over 500 people.
The exceptional charge of 33.3m includes 16.8m relating to redundancy costs and 5.1m relating to restructuring and business reorganisation.
Of the amount charged, 8.4m has been incurred in 2008 and the balance is expected to be incurred in 2009.
The charge also includes 11.4m of vacant property and other property costs which will be incurred over the remainder of the lease terms.
Exceptional items continued Charged to loss before tax Year ended 31 December 2009 The fair value adjustment relates to early settlement of six interest rate swap contracts which were previously designated as cash flow hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi-option facility.
Further details are given in Note 8.
Credited to profit after tax Year ended 31 December 2009 As a consequence of the resolution of a large number of outstanding taxation items, in various jurisdictions, there was a net exceptional tax credit of 135.2m.
Further details are given in Note 9.
Year ended 31 December 2008 There is a 1.6m tax credit in relation to the 5.5m of redundancy and restructuring costs incurred by UK companies.
Finance income expense 2009 2008 Before 2009 2009 Before 2008 2008 exceptional Exceptional Total exceptional Exceptional Total m m m m m m Interest income Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 1.8 4.6 4.6 Interest expense Borrowings and loans 13.2 13.2 9.3 9.3 Other 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 14.8 14.8 11.0 11.0 Financing income Pension schemes 2.2 2.2 4.4 4.4 Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 4.7 4.7 6.9 6.9 4.4 4.4 Financing income other Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts 1.0 1.0 Ineffective portion of net investment hedges Note 21 0.3 0.3 Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges Note 21 0.1 0.1 Net foreign exchange gain 1.3 1.3 Other fair value adjustments 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 2.9 2.9 0.3 0.3 Financing expense other Fair value adjustments early settlement of interest rate swap contracts Note 21 6.7 6.7 Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges Note 21 0.3 0.3 Net foreign exchange loss 4.3 4.3 6.7 6.7 4.6 4.6 Net finance expense 3.2 6.7 9.9 6.3 6.3 In December 2009, the Group settled early six interest rate swap contracts which were previously designated as cash flow hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi-option facility.
Following the issue of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds in November 2009, that $300m of borrowings was repaid.
Three of the swap contracts totaling $150m were due to mature in January 2011 with the other three contracts totalling $150m were due to mature in July 2012.
The early settlement resulted in a loss of 6.7m which has been included as an exceptional item.
Foreign exchange gain on forward contracts within financing income represents realised gains on foreign currency contracts against profits of the overseas operations.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 78 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 9.
Taxation Major components of income tax income for the year ended 31 December 2009 are: 2009 2008 m m Consolidated income statement Current tax Current tax charge 24.2 24.8 Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6.5 6.2 Income tax credit charge in the consolidated income statement 117.5 18.6 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income Current tax Deferred tax Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income Factors affecting tax credit charge for the year A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to loss before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Loss profit before tax 35.7 101.3 Loss profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in Republic of Ireland of 12.5% 2008: 12.5% 4.5 12.7 Effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 23.7 4.0 Tax effect of items not recognised in consolidated financial statements 9.1 9.8 Origination and reversal of temporary differences not recognised 9.5 4.8 Different tax rates on overseas earnings 19.3 19.1 Share of results from associates and joint ventures after tax 0.6 0.3 Non-taxable income 1.6 2.3 Exceptional taxation net credit 135.2 Income tax credit charge reported in the consolidated income statement 117.5 18.6 The amounts relating to current tax recognised in the statement of financial position are: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2009 237.2 227.6 Current tax charge 24.2 24.8 Exceptional tax net credit 135.2 Tax paid 16.5 18.7 Foreign exchange and other movements 0.7 3.5 At 31 December 2009 109.0 237.2 Section 3: Financial statements 79 9.
Taxation continued Factors affecting tax credit charge for the year continued At 31 December 2008 the current tax liability of 237.2m included an assessment of the Groups uncertain tax positions in various jurisdictions, including the dispute with HMRC in relation to the sale of the Regional Newspapers business in 1998 where the tax in dispute was estimated at 80m.
During the year the Group has resolved a large number of outstanding items in various jurisdictions.
This included: i the dispute in relation to the sale of the Regional Newspapers business, for which a payment including interest of 36.4m is due to be paid in March 2010: ii other UK issues for accounting periods up to 31 December 2007 for which a payment including interest of 10.1m is due to be paid in March 2010, and iii other non-UK issues for which a payment of 3.0m was made during the year.
The 46.5m due to be paid in March 2010 is included in the current tax liabilities at 31 December 2009.
The amounts included in the current tax liability at 31 December 2008 in relation to these issues, over and above the amounts paid and payable above, have therefore been released.
As a consequence there was a net exceptional tax credit of 135.2m.
The Group does not expect the tax cash outflow in 2010 in respect of this creditor to exceed 10m in addition to the 46.5m referred to above.
Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December 2009 relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated of financial position income statement 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Deferred tax Intangible assets acquired 26.0 33.4 6.4 6.4 Other temporary differences 1.7 1.8 0.1 0.2 27.7 35.2 6.5 6.2 At 31 December 2009, there was no recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries as the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised amount in aggregate to 5.3bn 2008: 13.1bn.
There are no income tax consequences to the Group arising from the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
2009 2008 m m The movement in the net deferred tax liability was as follows: Net liability at 1 January 35.2 30.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries see Note 29 1.3 3.0 Amounts credited to net profit 6.5 6.2 Currency translation 2.3 7.6 Net liability at 31 December 27.7 35.2 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 59.2m relating to deductible temporary differences and 105.5m of which 63.9m will expire between 2019 and 2029 relating to unused tax losses 2008: 80.1m and 63.6m of which 50.6m will expire within 2018 and 2028 respectively.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these amounts due to the unpredictability of future taxable profit streams.
The Group also has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 52.3m 2008: 52.3m relating to unused capital losses which can only be utilised against future capital gains.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 10.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year reflecting the movements set out in Note 25.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year adjusted for the effects of dilutive options.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on adjusted Group operating profit net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders, less amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Certain exceptional items, net financing expense other, taxation related to exceptional items and deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets are excluded from this calculation, as due to their nature and the infrequency of the events giving rise to them, separate presentation allows shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance for the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends of financial performance.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2009 2008 Weighted 2009 Weighted 2008 2009 average Earnings 2008 average Earnings Earnings no.
of shares per share Earnings no.
of shares per share m million p m million p Adjusted Group operating profit 171.2 173.5 Net interest expense 13.0 6.4 Financing income 6.9 4.4 Adjusted profit before tax 165.1 171.5 Taxation 24.8 27.3 Minority interests 6.6 6.3 B share dividend 0.5 Adjusted earnings per share 133.7 243.1 55.1 137.4 241.2 57.0 Adjustments Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions 26.8 11.0 26.1 10.8 Deferred tax on amortisation of intangible assets 6.4 2.6 6.4 2.6 Adjustments in respect of non-tax exceptional items 169.5 69.8 39.1 16.2 Tax exceptional item 135.2 55.6 Taxation relating to exceptional items 1.6 0.7 Net financing expense other 3.8 1.6 4.3 1.8 Basic earnings per share 75.2 243.1 30.9 75.9 241.2 31.5 Dilution Options 3.4 0.4 5.1 0.7 Diluted earnings per share 75.2 246.5 30.5 75.9 246.3 30.8 Adjusted earnings per share as above 133.7 243.1 55.1 137.4 241.2 57.0 Options 3.4 0.9 5.1 1.2 Diluted adjusted earnings per share 133.7 246.5 54.2 137.4 246.3 55.8 The Group has one category of dilutive potential ordinary shares: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
The impact of dilutive securities in 2009 would be to increase weighted average shares by 3.4 million shares 2008: 5.1 million shares for employee share options.
The weighted average number of shares excludes ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP and the Quality Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST.
Dividends 2009 2008 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2008 of 18.20p 2007: 16.76p 44.2 40.4 Interim dividend for 2009 of 6.00p 2008: 5.60p 14.6 13.5 Equity dividends B shares 0.5 58.8 54.4 Proposed not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Second interim dividend for 2009 of 18.20p 2008: 18.20p 44.3 44.0 The proposed second interim dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan DAP arrangements put in place as part of the Scheme of Arrangement, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the DAP election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own the shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the DAP arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make a DAP election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made a DAP election, or are deemed to have made a DAP election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
4 Formerly B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 12.
The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2008 see Note 1.
Financial results of cash-generating units The tables below show the revenue and adjusted operating profit measures of each cash-generating unit CGU in the current and prior year.
The amounts are shown to provide additional financial information in respect of the financial performance of these CGUs and as a context for the reasons for impairment set out below.
The same measures for the Groups reportable segments of Events, Data, Services and Online, Print Magazines and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring are set out in Note 3.
31 December 2009 Targeting, Commonwealt Distribution UBM UBM UBM UBM h Business and Technology Medica Asia Information Media RISI Monitoring Total m m m m m m m m External revenue 162.2 178.7 117.6 154.1 58.2 15.4 161.4 847.6 Inter-CGU revenue 0.4 0.5 0.9 Total CGU revenue 162.2 178.7 118.0 154.1 58.2 15.4 161.9 848.5 Eliminations 0.9 Total revenue 847.6 1 CGU Adjusted operating profit 15.1 28.4 39.7 38.5 10.5 1.8 44.8 178.8 Other corporate 7.6 1 Total adjusted operating profit 171.2 1 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill continued 31 December 2008 Commonwealth Targeting, UBM UBM UBM UBM Business Distribution and Technology Medica Asia Information Media RISI Monitoring Total m m m m m m m m External revenue 194.0 182.3 91.1 190.0 60.9 14.4 154.3 887.0 Inter-CGU revenue 0.2 0.2 Total CGU revenue 194.0 182.3 91.3 190.0 60.9 14.4 154.3 887.2 Eliminations 0.2 Total revenue 887.0 1 CGU Adjusted operating profit 29.3 29.1 26.2 43.4 7.7 1.5 43.3 180.5 Other corporate 7.0 1 Total adjusted operating profit 173.5 1 Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has historically been recorded at the level of business units, which have comprised the Groups CGUs.
The CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill has not been sub-allocated to three of the Groups reportable segments Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines.
Accordingly, the 2009 annual impairment review has been undertaken using the Groups seven CGUs.
A summary of the goodwill allocation to the Groups CGUs is given in the above tables.
Management tests goodwill annually for impairment as at 30 September each year, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of a CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In calculating the fair value less costs to sell and value in use of its CGUs, management is assisted by the work of external advisors.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is not re-computed annually by management if all of the following criteria are met: The component assets and liabilities of the CGU have not changed significantly since the last recoverable amount calculation: The previous assessment of recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount of the CGU by a substantial margin: and Based on an analysis of events that have occurred and circumstances that have changed since the most recent recoverable amount calculation, the likelihood that a current recoverable amount determination of the CGU would be less than its carrying value is remote.
Management has considered all of the above criteria in conjunction with the financial results for the CGUs in 2009 and the forecast results for 2010 and future years, along with consideration of events that have taken place, and any changes to economic conditions that have occurred, since the previous goodwill impairment test.
Management consider that three CGUs Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring, UBM Asia and RISI meet all three of the carry forward criteria, and the results of prior year calculations of the recoverable amounts of these CGUs, based on fair value less costs to sell, have been rolled forward for the purpose of the 2009 impairment test.
Fair value less costs to sell has been applied for UBM Information and value in use has been applied for UBM Technology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media as the most appropriate test basis for each CGU.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 12.
Goodwill continued Impairment charges recognised The impairment charges in respect of goodwill recognised in the consolidated income statement as a separate line item within operating loss are as follows: 2009 2008 Cash-generating unit Segment m m 1 UBM Technology Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines 47.0 1 UBM Medica Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines 67.0 1 Commonwealth Business Media Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines 35.8 149.8 1 Assets including goodwill and liabilities of the CGUs have not been allocated to the three business segments within Events, Data, Services and Online, and Print Magazines.
UBM Technology During the year ended 31 December 2009, the goodwill in relation to UBM Technology was impaired by 47.0m, mainly due to the continued decline in print revenue and operating profit within the technology sector.
Over the past few years, UBM has actively managed the print magazine portfolio to adapt to the long term structural shifts in the media environment.
A number of titles have either been discontinued, consolidated or the frequency of publication reduced, resulting in a significant decline in print-based revenue and operating profit, further accelerated in 2009 by the difficult economic climate.
UBM Medica The goodwill in relation to UBM Medica was impaired by 67.0m during the year ended 31 December 2009.
This was primarily due to reduced print magazine revenue and operating profit.
A number of UBM Medica titles were discontinued in 2009, resulting in a significant decline in print-based revenue and operating profit, further accelerated by the reduction in General Practitioner advertising revenue reflecting the difficult economic climate.
In addition, regulatory change in the US has resulted in reduced spending by the pharmaceutical companies for Continuing Medical Education, resulting in the cancellation of a number of planned meeting series.
Commonwealth Business Media During the year ended 31 December 2009, the goodwill in relation to Commonwealth Business Media was impaired by 35.8m.
As with UBM Technology and UBM Medica, the charge is mainly attributable to the decline in print magazine and print directory revenue and operating profit.
Both magazines and directories within the trade and transportation sector have been impacted by the long term structural shift away from print media towards digital and face-to-face media.
This decline has been accelerated in 2009 as a result of the difficult economic environment, particularly in the US.
Value in use impairment test The recoverable amounts for the UBM Technology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media CGUs were determined using value in use.
The value in use tests for each CGU have been based on the estimated future cash flows which are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects managements estimate of the CGUs weighted average cost of capital.
The key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculation for the above mentioned CGUs which are considered to be most sensitive were: Forecast EBITA Forecast EBITA is based upon the financial projections approved by management covering a five-year period.
The projections have been determined by using a combination of past experience, long term trends, industry forecasts and management estimates.
Managements estimates and long term trends reflect the following factors: The continued rebalancing of the product portfolio, away from print to digital and face-to-face media.
Margin improvements due to restructuring and business reorganisation plans, that have taken place during 2008 and 2009 within each CGU.
Each restructuring programme aims to either rebalance the product portfolios to better meet the future needs of customers and audiences, or to ensure the support platforms and divisional structures are cost efficient.
This was undertaken by a combination of cost reductions and investment in organic product development and acquisitions.
The EBITA projections take into account these margin improvements and do not include any cash flows relating to restructuring not provided at the time of the annual impairment test.
Management has considered industry specific growth rates in their calculation of the five-year EBITA forecast, together with exceptions specific to the healthcare, trade and transportation and technology industries.
Discount rate The discount rate for each CGU is based on the risk-free rate for 20-year government bonds in the respective market, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the increased risk of investing in equities, the systematic risk of the specific CGU and taking into account the relative size of the CGU and the specific territories in which it operates.
The increased risk of investing in equities is assessed using an equity market risk premium which reflects the increased return required over and above a risk-free rate by an investor who is investing in the whole market.
Management has used an equity market risk premium based on studies by independent economists and historic equity market risk premiums.
The risk adjustment for the systematic risk, beta, of each CGU reflects the specific risk relating to that CGU relative to the market as a whole.
This has been determined by management using an average of the betas of comparable companies within respective sectors.
Goodwill continued Perpetuity growth rates The cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period are based upon the weighted average projected real gross domestic product growth rate in 2013 of each of the territories in which the CGUs operate.
Growth rates for each territory have been weighted based on contribution to 2010 budgeted revenue.
The key assumptions for discount rate and perpetuity growth rate used in the most recent value in use calculation in the year ended 31 December 2009 are as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Pre-tax Perpetuity Pre-tax Perpetuity discount rate growth rate discount rate growth rate UBM Technology 12.0% 2.5% n a n a UBM Medica 12.6% 2.6% 12.6% 2.3% Commonwealth Business Media 13.3% 2.3% n a n a Value in use calculation not performed in 2008.
Following the charge for impairment, the estimated recoverable amount of the UBM Technology, UBM Medica and Commonwealth Business Media CGUs are equal to their carrying value at 31 December 2009.
Consequently, any adverse change in key assumption would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
The table below shows the increase decrease in the aggregate impairment loss of a reasonably possible change in each assumption: UBM UBM Commonwealth Technology Medica Business Media m m m EBITA forecasts Decrease by 10% 19.0 22.9 7.5 Increase by 10% 19.0 22.9 7.5 Pre-tax discount rate Increase by 20 basis points 3.8 4.1 1.3 Decrease by 20 basis points 3.9 4.3 1.3 Perpetuity growth rate Increase by 0.5 percentage point 7.0 7.5 2.2 Decrease by 0.5 percentage point 6.3 6.8 2.0 Fair value less costs to sell impairment test The recoverable amount of the UBM Information CGU has been determined using fair value less costs to sell.
The estimate of fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available and refers to the amount at which the CGU could be sold in a current transaction between willing parties.
The valuation method is based on an earnings multiple approach using transaction revenue and EBITA multiples obtained from comparable businesses and transactions in comparable businesses in the professional media sector.
A discount to the multiples from the peer group has been applied due to the smaller size of UBM Information compared to the peer group.
The calculation uses actual sales and EBITA results for 2009 and forecast sales and EBITA for 2010, based upon financial budgets approved by management.
Costs to sell are estimated to be 3% of the value of a CGU, based on experience of prior disposals by the Group.
In the determination of fair value less costs to sell, the calculation of fair value is most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of UBM Information.
In 2008, impairment tests for UBM Technology and Commonwealth Business Media were also performed under the fair value less costs to sell methodology, as described above.
The multiples ranged from 1.0 to 1.8 for revenue and 8.0 to 11.0 for EBITA.
The calculation used actual sales and EBITA results for 2008 and forecast sales and EBITA for 2009, based upon financial budgets approved by management.
In the determination of fair value less costs to sell in 2008, the calculation of fair value is most sensitive to the precedent transaction multiples used.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the deterioration in the economic climate and fall in equity markets has resulted in lower sales and EBITA multiples across the Group.
Management conducted a sensitivity analysis in relation to multiples used in the impairment test.
For UBM Technology, if there was a further reasonably possible decline in multiples of companies in the professional media sector of 20% to 25%, the sensitivity analysis shows that the recoverable amount would continue to exceed the carrying value of the CGU.
The fair value for Commonwealth Business Media, which was acquired in 2006, exceeded its carrying value by approximately 15m.
A reasonably possible decline in multiples could reduce the fair value less costs to sell of the Commonwealth Business Media CGU to a level comparable with its carrying value.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 13.
For intangible assets arising on acquisitions, the associated amortisation charge is included in a separate line item in the income statement since these charges do not form part of adjusted Group operating profit as defined below the income statement.
The average remaining useful lives for the brands and customer contracts and relationships intangible assets is seven years and four years respectively 2008: seven years and four years respectively.
The average remaining useful lives for the other classes of intangible assets is six years 2008: six years.
The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2008.
Property, plant and equipment 31 December 2009 Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 43.2 113.5 156.7 Additions 1.4 13.1 14.5 Acquisitions see Note 29 0.1 0.1 Disposals 2.3 5.4 7.7 Currency translation 1.7 8.3 10.0 At 31 December 2009 40.6 113.0 153.6 Depreciation At 1 January 2009 27.2 89.4 116.6 Charge for the year 1.6 10.7 12.3 Disposals 2.2 4.8 7.0 Currency translation 1.3 5.2 6.5 At 31 December 2009 25.3 90.1 115.4 Carrying value At 1 January 2009 16.0 24.1 40.1 At 31 December 2009 15.3 22.9 38.2 31 December 2008 restated Plant, Land and machinery buildings and vehicles Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 36.9 82.2 119.1 Additions 2.5 11.8 14.3 Acquisitions see Note 29 1.0 1.0 Disposals 1.5 1.9 3.4 Currency translation 5.3 20.4 25.7 At 31 December 2008 43.2 113.5 156.7 Depreciation At 1 January 2008 22.9 67.3 90.2 Charge for the year 1.6 9.9 11.5 Disposals 1.2 1.9 3.1 Currency translation 3.9 14.1 18.0 At 31 December 2008 27.2 89.4 116.6 Carrying value At 1 January 2008 14.0 14.9 28.9 At 31 December 2008 16.0 24.1 40.1 2009 2008 m m Land and buildings at net book amount comprise: Freehold 0.7 0.7 Long leasehold 0.9 0.9 Leasehold improvements 13.7 14.4 Carrying value 15.3 16.0 The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2008.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates a Carrying amount Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m At 1 January 14.7 9.1 23.8 12.2 12.4 24.6 Share of profit loss after tax 1.9 0.1 2.0 1.8 0.7 1.1 Share of items taken to other comprehensive income 3.9 3.9 3.3 3.3 Additions 0.4 0.4 Impairment charge see Note 7 1.0 0.9 1.9 Currency translation 1.2 0.3 1.5 3.6 0.7 4.3 Dividends received 1.5 1.5 3.3 3.3 At 31 December 12.9 4.1 17.0 14.7 9.1 23.8 Investments in joint ventures and associates at 31 December 2009 include goodwill of 8.3m and 6.0m respectively 2008: 10.7m and 6.8m respectively.
Investments in joint ventures and associates include amortisation of intangible assets of nil 2008: nil.
b Joint ventures 2009 2008 m m The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in joint ventures assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 7.5 8.2 Non-current assets 0.2 0.1 Current liabilities 3.2 4.3 Non-current liabilities Income 11.5 13.6 Expenses 9.6 11.8 The principal joint ventures at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Country of Type of incorporation and Class of Share holding Accounting Company Segment business operation shares held interest year end ANP Pers Support BV Targeting, Distribution News Distribution Netherlands Ordinary 50.0% 31 December and Monitoring CMP Weka Verlag GmbH Print Magazines Publications Germany Ordinary 50.0% 31 December eMedia Asia Limited Events, Data, Exhibitions, Barbados Asia Ordinary 39.9% 31 December Services and Online publications and Print Magazines and online Guangzhou Beauty Fair Events Exhibitions China Ordinary 27.5% 31 December Securex Events Exhibitions South Africa Ordinary 50.0% 31 December Section 3: Financial statements 89 15.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued c Associates 2009 2008 m m The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 10.0 11.0 Non-current assets 7.1 8.4 Current liabilities 10.3 11.2 Non-current liabilities 8.8 5.9 Income 36.8 34.9 Expenses 36.7 35.6 The following represents the summarised total financial information of the Groups associates assets, liabilities, income and expenses: Current assets 52.8 57.6 Non-current assets 39.2 45.7 Current liabilities 54.8 59.2 Non-current liabilities 45.9 31.5 Income 195.9 186.9 Expenses 196.0 191.2 Details of the Groups associates at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Country of incorporation Type of Class of Share holding Accounting Company Segment business registration shares held interest year end Axilog S. A.
Data, Services and Online Publications France Ordinary 25.1% 31 December eXalt Solutions Inc Data, Services and Online Online services United States A preferred 25.0% 31 December Independent Television News Corporate Operations Broadcasting Great Britain Ordinary 20.0% 31 December Limited PA Group Limited Corporate Operations News distribution Great Britain Ordinary 17.0% 31 December PR Newswire do Brazil Targeting, Distribution and News distribution Brazil Ordinary 38.0% 31 December Monitoring 16.
Other Investments 2009 2008 m m Unlisted shares 0.6 2.0 The unlisted shares are measured at cost less any provision for impairment as there is no active market for these investments and their fair values cannot be reliably measured.
The Group classifies its other investments as available for sale.
During 2009, other investments were impaired by 1.3m.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 17.
Inventories 2009 2008 m m Raw materials and consumables paper stock 2.3 3.2 Work in progress 5.1 5.9 Finished goods and goods for resale 0.3 0.2 Total inventories 7.7 9.3 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 8.1m 2008: 10.3m.
The total write-down of inventories included in cost of sales is nil 2008: nil.
Trade and other receivables As restated 2009 2008 m m Trade receivables 121.9 144.3 Less: provision for impairment on receivables 4.7 6.9 Trade receivables net 117.2 137.4 Other receivables 21.9 31.3 Prepayments and accrued income 27.2 29.7 Pension prepayments defined contribution schemes 3.5 3.6 169.8 202.0 The amounts shown for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of acquisition accounting adjustments relating to certain acquisitions made in 2008.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 6.9 4.2 Provision for receivables impairment 4.0 3.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 4.3 5.1 Acquisitions 0.4 1.2 Currency translation 2.3 3.5 At 31 December 4.7 6.9 The creation and release of provision for impaired trade receivables have been included in other cost of sales and administration costs in the income statement see Note 5.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
There is no provision for other receivables.
As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 4.7m 2008: 6.9m were impaired.
The amount of the provision was 4.7m at the balance sheet date 2008: 6.9m.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Under three months 1.4 0.5 Under six months 3.3 6.4 4.7 6.9 As of 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 31.2m 2008: 63.9m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Under three months 25.9 52.7 Under six months 5.3 11.2 31.2 63.9 Section 3: Financial statements 91 19.
Financial assets 2009 2008 m m Financial assets noncurrent Available-for-sale financial assets 0.6 2.0 Other financial assets current Forward currency contracts see Note 21 0.3 Interest rate swaps see Note 21 0.3 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments as fair value through profit and loss.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
See Note 21 for further details.
The values of the derivatives are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with major banks of high quality credit standing and with which it has a lending relationship.
As restated 2009 2008 m m Cash and short term deposits Cash at bank and in hand 61.9 33.5 Short term deposits 97.0 138.9 158.9 172.4 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months and earn interest at the respective short term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2009 is 158.9m 2008: 172.4m.
The Group only deposits surplus cash with major banks of high quality credit standing.
The Group classifies all its cash and short term deposits as loans and receivables.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 61.9 33.5 Short term deposits 97.0 138.9 158.9 172.4 Bank overdrafts see Note 21 0.1 3.7 158.8 168.7 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 20.
Financial liabilities 2009 2008 m m Current Bank overdrafts 0.1 3.7 Interest rate swaps see Note 21 2.1 7.9 Forward currency contracts see Note 21 8.8 3.0 Current instalments due on bank loans 0.2 50.9 7.75% US bonds 3.9 11.2 69.4 Non-current Non-current instalments due on bank loans 64.2 299.3 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 245.8 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 385.0 374.3 The Group classifies all its derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss and its bank overdrafts, bank loans, fixed rate bonds, floating rate reset bonds and 7.75% US bonds as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The Group enters into derivative contracts only with major banks of high quality credit standing.
Bonds 250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016 On 23 November 2009 the Group issued 250m fixed rate sterling bonds at 99.384% of par.
The bonds pay an annual interest coupon of 6.5% on 23 November until maturity in 2016.
The coupon of 6.5% would be increased by 1.25% in the event the Groups long term credit rating were to be reduced below investment grade by either Standard and Poors below BBBor Moodys below Baa3.
The proceeds were used to repay outstanding bank debt.
The Group entered into currency and interest rate swaps so that approximately 150m has been swapped into floating rate US dollars, at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.14% see Note 21 for further details.
The Group also entered into currency swaps so that approximately 100m has been swapped into fixed rate US dollars, at a rate of 6.34% see Note 21 for further details.
75m floating rate reset bonds In 2008, the Group raised 75.0m through the issue of 20-year floating rate reset bonds.
The bonds bear interest at six-month LIBOR plus 0.68% until 26 September 2011.
Thereafter the interest rate will be 4.70% plus a credit spread which will be reset every three years by auction.
Bondholders may put the bonds back to the issuer, at par, on 26 September 2011 and on each triennial interest reset date thereafter.
The Group may call the bonds at fair market value on interest payment dates from September 2011.
If not put or called, the bonds will mature in 2028.
Bank loans 2009 2008 m m 53.1m floating rate reset loan 2012 47.2 53.1m variable rates loan 2009 50.9 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 14.7 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility 2010 0.8 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 16.8 283.3 Other 0.4 0.5 64.4 350.2 Section 3: Financial statements 93 20.
Financial liabilities continued 31 December 2009 53.1m floating rate reset loan due 2012 During 2008, the Group borrowed 53.1m under floating rate reset loans.
These loans bear interest at six-month LIBOR plus 1.80% until 16 March 2012.
Thereafter the interest rate will be 4.16% plus a credit spread which will be reset every three years by auction.
Lenders may put the loans back to the Group, at par, on 16 March 2012 and on each triennial interest reset date thereafter.
The Group may call the loans at fair market value on interest payment dates from March 2012.
If not put or called, the loans will mature in 2024.
CAD26.0m variable rates loan due 2010 This loan was repaid and the facility cancelled in 2009.
CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 This loan was repaid and the facility cancelled in 2009.
325m variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 This 325m multi-currency unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 July 2012 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%.
Drawings under the facility are as follows: Currency of borrowing mm Japanese yen 2,530.0 16.8 16.8 The undrawn portion of this facility is 308.2m.
31 December 2008 53.1m variable rates loan due 2009 This unsecured loan was repayable on 16 March 2009 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75%.
This loan was refinanced through the issuance of 53.1m floating rate reset loan due 2012.
CAD26.0m variable rates loan due 2010 This unsecured loan is repayable on 27 May 2010 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.3%.
CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility due 2010 This unsecured revolving facility is repayable on 27 May 2010 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.3%.
At 31 December 2008, CAD1.5m of this loan was drawn leaving CAD4.5m undrawn.
Drawings from the facility are as follows: Currency of borrowing mm US dollar 380.0 261.3 Japanese yen 2,900.0 22.0 283.3 The undrawn portion of this facility is 41.7m.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 21.
Financial instruments An explanation of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies and the Groups policies on capital management are set out in the discussion of Treasury policies on pages 2627 in the Operating and Financial Review.
Fair values The table below compares the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments.
2009 2008 Carrying 2009 Carrying 2008 amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 158.9 158.9 172.4 172.4 Available-for-sale investments 0.6 0.6 2.0 2.0 Interest rate swaps Forward currency contracts 0.3 0.3 159.8 159.8 174.4 174.4 Financial liabilities 7.75% US bonds 3.9 4.0 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 245.8 255.0 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 78.9 75.0 75.0 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 3.7 3.7 53.1m floating rate reset loan 2012 47.2 49.1 53.1m variable rates loan 2009 50.9 50.9 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 14.7 14.7 CAD6.0m variable rate multi-option facility 2010 0.8 0.8 325m variable rate multi-option facility 2012 16.8 16.8 283.3 283.3 Interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 7.9 7.9 Forward currency contracts 8.8 8.8 3.0 3.0 Other 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 396.2 411.2 443.7 443.8 The variable rate multi-option facility due 2012 and the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016 are subject to the hedging disclosed below.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts are calculated by the external counterparties to the contracts and verified using present value of future cash flows at discount rates implied by the forward curve.
Market values have been used to calculate the fair value of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds due 2016, the 75m floating rate reset bonds and the 53.1m floating rate reset loan due 2012.
The fair value of cash at bank and deposits approximates to their book value due to their short maturity.
For all other financial assets and liabilities the carrying amount has been used.
Financial instruments continued Fair value hierarchy The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly e. g. prices or indirectly e. g. derived from prices.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Forward currency contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 Forward currency contracts 8.8 8.8 10.9 10.9 During the reporting period ending 31 December 2009, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 measurements.
The fair value of interest rate swaps and forward currency contracts are determined by using valuation techniques as they are not traded in an active market.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
As all the significant inputs required to fair value these instruments are observable, the instruments are included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Hedges Cash flow hedges 2009 2008 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 7.9 Forward currency contracts 7.9 Interest rate swaps At 31 December 2009, the Group held an interest swap contract designated as a hedge of expected payments under 2,100m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi-option facility.
Under this swap contract, the Group will receive three-month Yen LIBOR and pay 1.13% until March 2010.
This hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2009 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts of 0.1m transferred to financing expense other.
The fair value of this derivative at 31 December 2009 was less than 0.1m.
The six interest rate swap contacts which were previously designated as hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility were settled early in December 2009 following the issue of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds and repayment of $300m of floating rate debt.
The loss on early settlement is included within financing expense other see Note 8.
At 31 December 2008, the Group held six interest rate swap contracts designated as hedges of expected payments under $300m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility.
Under three of the swap contracts totalling $150m the Group will receive three month US dollar LIBOR and pay an average rate of 2.91% until January 2011.
Under a further three swap contracts totalling $150m the Group will receive six month US dollar LIBOR and pay an average rate of 3.34% until July 2012.
The Group also held an interest rate swap contract designated as a hedge of expected payments under 2,100m of borrowing from the Groups 325m variable rate multi option facility.
Under this swap contract, the Group will receive three month yen LIBOR and pay 1.13% until March 2010.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2008 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts transferred to financing expense other see Note 8.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 21.
Financial instruments continued Forward currency contracts At 31 December 2009, the Group had one forward currency hedging contract designated as a hedge of 0.6m of sterling equivalent customer receipts in US dollar.
This hedge was assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2009.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had three forward currency hedging contracts designated as hedges of 0.3m of sterling equivalent customer receipts in euro, US dollar and South African rand.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2008.
The fair value of these derivatives at 31 December 2008 was less than 0.1m.
Net investment in foreign operations 2009 2008 m m Forward currency contracts derivative financial assets 0.1 Forward currency contracts derivative financial liabilities 8.4 3.0 8.3 3.0 At 31 December 2009 the Group held two forward currency contracts designated as hedges of $43m of net investment in the United States operations within the Groups PR Newswire business.
Upon maturity of these forward exchange contracts in January 2010, the Group received 26.7m and paid $43.0m.
These forward currency contracts were being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
At 31 December 2009 the Group held four cross currency interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the net investment in the Group US technology and Global Trade businesses.
Under two of the contracts totalling $166.7m the Group will pay annual interest of 6.336% and receive annual interest of 6.5% on 100.0m until 23 November 2016.
Under the other two contracts totalling $250.1m the Group will pay annual interest of US LIBOR plus 3.14% and receive GBP LIBOR plus 2.90% on 150m until 23 November 2016.
Included in borrowings at 31 December 2009 was a borrowing of 2,100.0m 2008: 2,900.0m with a fair value of 2,100.0m 2008: 2,884.1m of which 1,100.0m 2008: 1,900.0m has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Japanese subsidiary CMP Japan and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on this investment.
At 31 December 2008 the Group held two forward currency contracts designated as hedges of $43m of net investment in the United States operations within the Groups PR Newswire business.
Upon maturity of these forward exchange contracts in January 2009, the Group received 26.4m and paid $43.0m.
Gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings and the mark to market of the forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net investment in these subsidiaries.
These hedges were assessed to be highly effective at 31 December 2009 and 2008 with the ineffective portion of the hedging contracts transferred to financing expense other see Note 8.
Fair value hedges 2009 2008 m m Interest rate swaps derivative financial liabilities 2.1 2.1 Interest rate swap valuations at 31 December 2009 include floating rate swaps for 150m matched against 150m of the 2016 250m bond.
Under these swaps the Group receives 6.50% to match the bond coupon and pays six month sterling LIBOR plus 2.90%.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The following tables set out the carrying amount, by maturity, of the Groups financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk: 31 December 2009 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Forward exchange contracts 3.5 3.5 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 98.8 98.8 102.3 102.3 Floating rate Cash 158.9 158.9 Bank overdraft 0.1 0.1 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 53.1m floating rate reset loan 2012 47.2 47.2 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 16.8 16.8 Interest rate swaps 2.1 2.1 Forward exchange contracts 4.9 4.9 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 147.0 147.0 Other 0.2 0.2 0.4 158.6 75.2 64.0 154.0 134.6 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is repriced at set intervals of less than one year.
The effect of the interest rate swaps is discussed below.
31 December 2008 Within Between Between Between Between Over 1 year 1 2 years 2 3 years 3 4 years 4 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m m Fixed rate Cash 40.0 40.0 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 222.3 222.3 Interest rate swaps 0.1 2.9 4.9 7.9 Forward exchange contracts 3.0 3.0 7.75% US bonds 3.9 3.9 33.1 0.1 2.9 227.2 197.1 Floating rate Cash 132.4 132.4 Bank overdraft 3.7 3.7 75m floating rate reset bonds 75.0 75.0 53.1m variable rates loan 2009 50.9 50.9 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 14.7 14.7 CAD6.0m variable rate multi option facility 2010 0.8 0.8 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 61.0 61.0 Other 0.5 0.5 77.8 16.0 75.0 61.0 74.2 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 21.
Financial instruments continued The following table demonstrates the impact on the Groups loss before tax had possible changes in interest rates occurred during the year, with all other variables held constant.
Gains losses recorded in Effect on loss before tax equity Increase in 2009 basis points m m Sterling 100 0.2 US dollar 100 1.1 Euro 100 0.4 Japanese yen 100 Canadian dollar 100 The above table reflects the year end position.
A decrease in equivalent basis points would result in the exact opposite effect on loss before tax.
The average position for the year would show a lower effect on profit before tax due to interest rate cash flow hedges on $300m of floating rate borrowing held until 14 December 2009.
On 23 November 2009 the Group put in place $150m of fair value interest rate swaps to decrease the exposure to interest rates following the issuance of the 250m fixed rate sterling bonds.
Fair value swaps do not impact gains losses recorded in equity.
Cash flow interest rate hedges remove some of the exposure to interest rates from the floating rate borrowings.
During 2009, the Group had cash flow hedges averaging 188.9m of the amount borrowed from the 325m revolving credit facility.
The impact of the cash flow hedges was to fix floating rate borrowings at an average of 2.96%, excluding borrowing margin.
Gains losses Effect on profit recorded in Increase in before tax equity 2008 basis points m m Sterling 50 US dollar 100 0.3 6.0 Euro 100 0.3 Japanese yen 50 0.1 Canadian dollar 100 0.1 Cash flow interest rate hedges remove some of the exposure to interest rates from the floating rate borrowings.
During 2008, the Group had cash flow hedges averaging 208m of the amount borrowed from the 325m revolving credit facility.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group manages its credit risk in relation to its operating activities trade receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments.
Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits The following financial instruments and cash deposits are exposed to credit risk: 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 61.9 33.5 Short term deposits 97.0 138.9 Forward currency contracts 0.3 159.2 172.4 The Group deposits surplus cash only with major banks of high quality credit standing.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups financial instruments and cash deposits is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 19.
Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit management.
Credit limits are established for all customers and are based inter alia on bank references and credit checks.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The maximum credit risk associated with the Groups trade receivables is equal to their carrying value as set out in Note 18.
Financial instruments continued Foreign currency risk The following table demonstrates the sensitivity during the year to a possible change in the US dollar, euro and Japanese yen exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups loss before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and forward currency contracts and the Groups equity due to changes in the fair value of forward currency hedges and net investment hedges.
31 December 2009 Effect Gains losses Currency on loss recorded value before tax in equity falls by m m US dollar 10% 28.7 Euro 10% 1.1 Japanese yen 10% 0.9 1.0 Canadian dollar 10% 31 December 2008 Effect Gains losses Currency on profit recorded value before tax in equity falls by m m US dollar 10% 0.3 20.1 Euro 20% 3.8 Japanese yen 10% 0.6 0.9 Canadian dollar 5% Liquidity risk The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
31 December 2009 On Due within Due between Due 5 years demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m 250m fixed rate sterling bonds 2016 16.3 65.0 280.9 362.2 75m floating rate reset bonds 1.6 76.6 78.2 Bank overdrafts 0.1 0.1 53.1m floating rate reset loan 2012 1.5 49.7 51.2 325m variable rate multi option facility 2012 0.2 17.0 17.2 Other 0.2 0.2 0.4 Derivative financial liabilities 1.7 3.8 8.3 10.4 Trade payables 50.0 50.0 Other payables 33.5 2.0 35.5 Deferred consideration 14.3 10.8 25.1 0.1 115.9 225.1 289.2 630.3 31 December 2008 On Due within Due between Due 5 years demand 1 year 1 and 5 years and beyond Total m m m m m 7.75% US bonds 4.1 4.1 75m floating rate reset bonds 2.9 80.0 82.9 Bank overdrafts 3.7 3.7 53.1m variable rates loan 2009 51.4 51.4 CAD26.0m variable rates loan 2010 0.3 14.8 15.1 CAD6.0m variable rate multi option facility due 2010 0.9 0.9 325m variable rate multi option facility due 2012 5.8 299.5 305.3 Other 0.2 0.8 1.0 Derivative financial liabilities 7.9 7.9 Trade payables 66.5 66.5 Other payables 46.8 3.2 50.0 Deferred consideration 17.2 21.4 38.6 3.7 195.2 428.5 627.4 The above tables include an estimate of interest on the Groups financial liabilities based on the forward interest rate curve and assume the liabilities are in place until their maturity dates.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 21.
Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk continued The table below is an analysis of movement in net debt: At At 1 January 31 December Non-cash Exchange 2009 items movement 2009 Cash flow m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 172.4 6.2 7.3 158.9 Bank overdrafts 3.7 3.6 0.1 Net cash 168.7 2.6 7.3 158.8 Bank loans due in less than one year 50.9 47.0 3.7 0.2 Loan notes due in less than one year 3.9 3.5 0.4 Bank loans due in more than one year 299.3 204.0 31.1 64.2 Loan notes due in more than one year 75.0 1.3 247.1 320.8 Net debt 260.4 1.3 4.8 27.9 226.4 At At 1 January 31 December Non-cash Exchange 2008 items Cash flow movement 2008 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 95.0 56.0 21.4 172.4 Bank overdrafts 0.3 3.3 0.1 3.7 Net cash 94.7 52.7 21.3 168.7 Bank loans due in less than one year 39.0 11.9 50.9 Loan notes due in less than one year 2.9 1.0 3.9 Bank loans due in more than one year 210.3 7.1 96.1 299.3 Loan notes due in more than one year 2.9 2.9 75.0 75.0 Net debt 157.5 15.2 87.7 260.4 22.
Trade and other payables As restated 2009 2008 m m Current Trade payables 52.4 66.5 Other payables 33.5 46.8 Deferred consideration 14.3 17.2 Other taxes and social security 12.5 16.3 Accruals and deferred income 203.1 209.4 315.8 356.2 Non-current Other payables 2.0 3.2 Deferred consideration 10.8 21.4 Accruals and deferred income 0.1 0.1 12.9 24.7 Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Deferred consideration includes the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration relating to a number of acquisitions made in recent years.
Details are given in Note 29.
Provisions Reorganisation Former Prior and financial period restructuring Properties services disposals Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 20.6 46.5 0.7 10.8 78.6 Arising during the year 12.5 3.7 16.2 Utilised in the year 22.0 12.9 0.6 5.8 41.3 Net present value accretion 1.2 1.2 Currency translation 1.3 3.4 4.7 At 31 December 2009 9.8 35.1 0.1 5.0 50.0 Current 9.8 12.5 0.1 1.0 23.4 Non-current 22.6 4.0 26.6 At 31 December 2009 9.8 35.1 0.1 5.0 50.0 Reorganisation Former Prior and financial period restructuring Properties services disposals Total m m m m m At 1 January 2008 5.9 46.7 0.8 16.1 69.5 Arising during the year 22.4 11.4 33.8 Utilised in the year 12.5 23.4 0.1 5.3 41.3 Net present value accretion 1.7 1.7 Currency translation 4.8 10.1 14.9 At 31 December 2008 20.6 46.5 0.7 10.8 78.6 Current 20.6 20.0 2.5 43.1 Non-current 26.5 0.7 8.3 35.5 At 31 December 2008 20.6 46.5 0.7 10.8 78.6 Liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring As discussed in Note 7, the Group has implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
With the exception of amounts relating to vacant properties see liabilities on properties below, the provision is expected to be substantially utilised within one year.
Liabilities on properties The Group has lease obligations in respect of the continuing costs of vacant property, the quantification of which depends upon the ability to exit the leases early or sublet the properties, and for dilapidations on certain leasehold properties which are dependent principally on actual reinstatement costs on expiry of the leases.
The provision in respect of these obligations at 31 December 2009 has been determined following external professional advice and will be utilised over the period of the leases in question, which range from one to five years.
The provision is discounted at an appropriate cost of capital.
The amounts discussed under liabilities for reorganisation and restructuring relating to vacant property have been included within liabilities on property.
Liabilities arising from former financial services activities A subsidiary of the Group was formerly engaged in the selling of personal pensions prior to 1996.
As a result of the industry-wide review into pension mis-selling by the Personal Investment Authority, the Group is exposed to actual and potential future claims by investors in respect of policies found to have been mis-sold.
Although work continues to progress with respect to the identification and review of all pension policies sold, the number and amount of such claims cannot be finally determined until all potential compensation costs have been agreed.
The amount of the provisions at 31 December 2009 has been determined on the basis of independent financial advice.
Liabilities relating to disposals in prior periods The Group has made a number of disposals of businesses in prior years.
Warranty and other claims may be brought against the Group in relation to these disposed businesses generally over periods of up to seven years after the date of disposal.
The provision in respect of these items has been determined based upon the contract terms of each disposal and are reassessed on an annual basis over the period during which claims may be brought against the Group.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 24.
Retirement benefit obligation The Group operates a number of funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
The charge for the year in relation to defined contribution schemes was 6.0m 2008: 4.7m.
The defined benefit pension schemes included in the following disclosures are i UK schemes: the United Pension Plan, the United Magazines Final Salary Scheme, the defined benefit section of the United Group Pension Scheme UGPS, The Builder Group Pension Scheme which was transferred to the UGPS during 2008, the United Newspapers Executive Pension Scheme, the OAG Pension Scheme, ii US schemes, being the CMP Media LLC Cash Balance Retirement Plan and the CMP Post Retirement Medical Plan, and iii Retirement Indemnity Plans in France.
The most recent actuarial funding valuations for the majority of the UK scheme liabilities were carried out in 2008 and updated to 31 December 2009 by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 415.6 23.6 439.2 382.1 23.2 405.3 Benefit obligation 431.1 32.2 463.3 335.6 38.8 374.4 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 2.5 2.5 16.3 16.3 Liability asset in the statement of financial position 18.0 8.6 26.6 30.2 15.6 14.6 Any surplus on the UK schemes ultimately repaid by the Trustees would currently be subject to a 35% tax charge prior to being repaid.
Two of the UK schemes are in surplus at 31 December 2009.
The application of IFRIC 14 is such that this tax is shown as irrecoverable surplus.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Current service cost 0.7 0.3 1.0 1.2 2.0 3.2 Past service cost 0.5 0.5 Curtailments 2.1 2.1 0.7 0.3 1.0 1.7 0.1 1.6 Interest cost 21.9 1.8 23.7 23.5 1.8 25.3 Expected return on plan assets 24.4 1.5 25.9 27.8 1.9 29.7 2.5 0.3 2.2 4.3 0.1 4.4 Total pension credit charge 1.8 0.6 1.2 2.6 0.2 2.8 Of the total pension credit charge, a 1.0m charge and a 2.2m credit 2008: 1.6m charge and 4.4m credit were included in Operating expenses and Financing income respectively.
The total pension credit for 2010 is currently expected to be 2.1m 2009: 1.5m.
The main UK schemes are closed to new members, hence under the projected unit credit method, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of the salaries of the remaining members will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
Following finalisation of the 2008 funding valuations in 2009, the Group agreed to make special contributions to the UK pension schemes over the next five years of 3.1m per annum plus a one-off contribution in 2009 of 1.3m and to arrange letters of credit to be issued to the scheme trustees from one or more of the Companys bankers to make up the difference between the valuation and 100% while this funding takes effect.
The value of the letters of credit issued to the scheme trustees in 2009 is 13.0m 2008: 26.0m.
The main conditions under which these letters of credit could be drawn relate to events which would imperil the interests of the scheme, such as insolvency, or the Group failing to make agreed payments.
Pension deficit contributions of 3.7m 2008: 1.7m were made to the UK schemes during the year and nil 2008: nil were made to other schemes during the year.
The Group expects to contribute 3.1m to its defined benefit pension plans in 2010.
Retirement benefit obligation continued The movement in the liability asset recognised in the statement of financial position is as follows: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m At 1 January 30.2 15.6 14.6 26.2 4.1 22.1 Total income expenses recognised in the income statement 1.8 0.6 1.2 2.6 0.2 2.8 Net actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 67.8 3.9 63.9 1.5 10.8 9.3 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 13.8 13.8 2.2 2.2 Contributions paid by UBM 4.0 2.5 6.5 2.1 2.0 4.1 Currency translation 1.2 1.2 2.9 2.9 At 31 December 18.0 8.6 26.6 30.2 15.6 14.6 The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups schemes are shown below: UK Other UK Other Schemes schemes Schemes schemes 2009 2009 2008 2008 % % % % Discount rate 5.70 5.39 6.70 5.55 Future salary increases 3.75 2.00 3.75 3.41 Weighted average pension increases 2.96 n a 2.50 n a Inflation assumption 3.30 2.45 2.50 2.47 Expected return on scheme assets: Equities 8.90 9.50 9.30 9.50 Bonds 5.70 5.50 6.70 5.50 Gilts 4.40 n a 3.80 n a Other 0.50 3.00 2.00 2.00 The mortality assumptions used at 31 December 2009 for UK schemes are consistent with those applied at 31 December 2008.
The death rates used are 130% of the 2000 series standard tables based on the year of birth of scheme members, which is currently on average 1939 for pensioners 2008: 1935 and 1956 for non-pensioners 2008: 1957.
Allowances for future reductions in death rates were assumed to be in line with the medium cohort standard actuarial projection.
These projections allow for life expectancy to improve over time due to improvements in medical treatments and other lifestyle factors such that younger members who have not yet reached pensionable age are expected to live longer than current pensioner members.
The assumed average life expectancy of current pensioner members when they were aged 65 is 19.4 years for males and 21.8 years for females 2008: 19.0 years and 21.4 years respectively.
For current non-pensioner members who have not yet reached pensionable age, the assumed average life expectancy when they reach age 65 is 20.6 years for males and 22.9 years for females 2008: 20.6 years and 22.9 years respectively.
The average rate of improvement underlying the standard tables is an increase of approximately 0.7 years life expectancy in every 10 years.
For the valuation of US scheme liabilities, RP 2000 tables are used in both years for all members.
The life expectancy for a 65-year-old male is 18.8 years 2008: 18.8 years and a 65-year-old female is 20.8 years 2008: 20.8 years.
Additional assumptions used for valuing the UK scheme liabilities are an allowance for between 6080% 2008: 6680% of non-pensioners to exchange 32% 2008: 32% of pension for tax-free cash on retirement.
Plan assets mainly consist of equity instruments and fixed income investments.
The expected rate of return on equities at 31 December 2009 is based on an expected long term outperformance of equities over government bonds of 4.5% p. a.
Management has used judgement to determine the assumptions used in calculating the pension obligations.
The assumed discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions.
Impact on deficit increase m 0.25 percentage point decrease to discount rate 16.0 0.25 percentage point increase to inflation including pension increases linked to inflation 8.0 Additional one year increase to life expectancy 15.0 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 24.
Retirement benefit obligation continued Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 3.3 0.3 3.0 11.5 0.5 11.0 Actuarial losses gains on plan liabilities due to assumptions 89.5 0.4 89.9 73.5 0.2 73.3 Experience gains losses on plan assets 25.0 4.0 29.0 83.5 10.1 93.6 Effect of irrecoverable element of pension surplus 13.8 13.8 Total loss gain 54.0 3.9 50.1 1.5 10.8 9.3 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is 21.1m 2008: 71.2m.
UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2008 2008 2009 2008 % % % % % % Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 0.8 0.9 0.6 3.4 1.3 2.9 Experience gains losses on plan assets 6.0 16.9 6.6 21.9 43.5 23.1 History of experience gains and losses: UK UK UK UK UK Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 431.1 335.6 415.6 445.2 453.2 Plan assets 415.6 382.1 455.9 445.0 411.2 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus 2.5 16.3 14.1 Deficit surplus in statement of financial position 18.0 30.2 26.2 0.2 42.0 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities 3.3 11.5 4.2 2.2 22.8 Experience gains losses on plan assets 25.0 83.5 1.5 7.9 37.0 Other Other Other Other Other Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes Schemes 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 32.2 38.8 29.0 31.9 32.2 Plan assets 23.6 23.2 24.9 28.3 27.4 Irrecoverable element of pension surplus Deficit surplus in statement of financial position 8.6 15.6 4.1 3.6 4.8 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 0.3 0.5 0.7 2.0 0.2 Experience gains losses on plan assets 4.0 10.1 0.4 1.1 0.1 Experience gains losses on plan assets: UK Other UK Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Expected return on assets 24.4 1.5 25.9 27.8 1.9 29.7 Actual return on assets 49.4 5.5 54.9 55.7 8.2 63.9 25.0 4.0 29.0 83.5 10.1 93.6 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 25.
Share capital 2009 2008 m m Authorised 1,217,124,740 2008: 1,217,124,740 ordinary shares of 10p each 121.7 121.7 23 Nil 2008: nil B shares of 8 44 p each 121.7 121.7 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares B shares B shares Total Number m Number m m Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2008 243,542,509 82.4 3,809,932 0.3 82.7 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 279,246 0.1 0.1 At 30 June 2008 pre capital reorganisation 243,821,755 82.5 3,809,932 0.3 82.8 Capital reorganisation 58.1 58.1 Capital reorganisation repurchase of B shares 3,809,932 0.3 0.3 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 260,617 At 31 December 2008 244,082,372 24.4 24.4 Issued in respect of share option schemes and other entitlements 92,116 At 31 December 2009 244,174,488 24.4 24.4 Capital reorganisation and new holding company On 1 July 2008, as part of a reorganisation of the corporate structure of the Group, United Business Media Limited UBML was created as a new holding company and parent company of the Group.
Immediately following the Scheme, the former shareholders of UBM plc held the same economic interest in United Business Media Limited as they held in UBM plc immediately prior to its implementation.
The effect of the Scheme was to increase share premium by 885.4m from 362.2m at the date immediately preceding the scheme, eliminate UBM plcs capital redemption reserve of 52.1m and create a merger reserve with a negative debit balance of 833.3m.
Also on 1 July 2008, UBM plc reduced and repaid its entire issued B share capital for total consideration of 9.4m being 245p per share plus the relevant proportion of dividends outstanding.
The effect of the reduction and repayment of UBM plcs B share capital of 9.4m was to reduce share capital by 0.3m, increase the capital redemption reserve by 0.3m, reduce retained earnings by 9.3m in relation to the redemption of the B shares and to record the 0.1m B share dividend for the period to the redemption date.
71 On 4 July 2008, the Jersey Court approved the reduction of capital of UBML, whereby the nominal value of each ordinary share was reduced from 33 p to 10p 88 and the balance of UBMLs share premium account was transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
The effect of the reduction of capital was to reduce share capital by 58.1m, reduce share premium by 1,247.6m and increase the profit and loss reserve by 1,305.7m.
Share repurchases The Group did not repurchase and cancel any of its own ordinary shares during the year 2008: nil.
The total amount paid to acquire the ordinary shares was nil and, as described above, nil was paid to acquire B shares 2008: nil for ordinary shares and 9.4m for B shares.
B shares The return of capital to shareholders undertaken in 2001 took the form of a subdivision and consolidation of the existing Company ordinary shares.
On 23 April 23 21 2001, each of the existing 507,901,885 ordinary shares of 25p then in issue were subdivided into one share of 8 p B Shares and one share of 16 p and 44 44 21 25 25 immediately following such subdivision every issued share of 16 44p was sub-divided into 29 shares of 44p.
Every 44 shares of 44p each resulting from such subdivision were then consolidated into one ordinary share of 25p.
The subdivision created a class of B shares with a total value of approximately 1.25bn.
UK shareholders had the option to sell these shares back to the Company for 245p per share, to receive a single dividend of 245p per share, or to retain the B shares and receive a continuing dividend linked to LIBOR.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, as described above, 3,809,932 shares were purchased by the Company for consideration of 9.4m.
Cumulatively to 1 July 2008, 375,417,690 B shares had been purchased by United Business Media plc for consideration of 919.8m.
At 31 December 2009, no B shares remain in issue 31 December 2008: no B shares.
B shareholders were entitled to a non-cumulative preference dividend.
On winding up, the B shareholders were entitled to 245p per share and the relevant proportion of the dividends outstanding.
B shareholders did not have any voting entitlements except in a resolution relating to a winding-up of the Company or if the B share dividend has been outstanding for more than six months.
Company share schemes The ESOP Trust and QUEST Trust see Note 27 own 0.27% 2008: 0.91% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group and their dependants.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
Share premium 2009 2008 m m In issue at 1 January 1.0 361.3 Premium on shares issued, net of costs 0.2 1.9 Capital reorganisation see Note 25 362.2 In issue at 31 December 1.2 1.0 The Company received 0.2m 2008: 2.0m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of options awarded under various share option plans.
Share-based payments The Group has an Employee Share Ownership Plan the ESOP.
The ESOP has purchased in the open market Company shares which are held on trust for employees participating in the plans listed below.
The purchase of shares in the open market is financed through contributions in cash by the Company and, for awards under the Bonus Investment Plan, through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives.
The Group also has a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust the QUEST, which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of UK employees including executive directors of the Group in connection with the exercise of SAYE options.
The Group maintains eight share-based payment arrangements: 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme, 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan, UK Save As You Earn Option Scheme, International Save As You Earn Scheme, Medium Term Incentive Plan, Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan.
As at 31 December the holdings over the ESOP and the QUEST were as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Number Market value Number of Market value of shares m shares m ESOP Ordinary shares 667,047 3.1 2,212,815 11.3 QUEST Ordinary shares Executive Share Option Scheme On 18 April 2000 the Group established a share option programme for full-time directors and certain employees.
All participants in the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2000 Executive scheme must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Grants are no longer made under the 2000 Executive scheme.
Options may be exercised after the third anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death.
On 2 June 2008 the Group adopted the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2008 Executive scheme for full-time directors and certain employees.
All participants in the 2008 Executive scheme must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 Executive scheme in 2009.
The number of options granted to a participant under the 2008 Executive scheme is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The number of shares that may be allocated under the 2008 Executive scheme on any day cannot, when added to the aggregate of the number of shares allocated in the previous ten years under the 2008 Executive scheme and any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company, exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately before that day.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The price shall not be lower than the closing middle market price of shares of that class as listed on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the day prior to the grant date or the average closing middle market price of shares of that class on the three days prior to the grant date if so decided by the Remuneration Committee.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average 2009 average average 2008 exercise price remaining life Number exercise price remaining life Number Exercise price p p years of shares p years of shares 247.3 277.2 261.4 3.0 265,045 258.4 4.0337,000 410.0 574.0 478.8 7.5 6,514,364 526.2 7.54,502,713 724.8 867.2 767.8 2.2 946,211 770.6 3.01,106,211 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 27.
Share-based payments continued 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan In April 2000 the Group established a share option programme for certain directors and employees.
All participants in the 2000 Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan SEEPP must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Shares are purchased on the open market and financed through bonuses sacrificed by senior executives the Bonus Option under the terms of SEEPP.
Options may be exercised after the fourth anniversary of the grant date subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
One-third of Matching options vest subject to adjusted earnings per share EPS see Note 10 growth exceeding retail price index RPI growth plus 3%: one-third of options vest subject to adjusted EPS growth exceeding RPI growth plus 5% per annum over four years: the final third is not subject to performance criteria.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year were 0.2m which have an exercise price of nil, and an average weighted remaining life of five years.
The SEEPP has now been closed and no further grants will be made under the scheme.
Save As You Earn Option Schemes In May 2004, the Group established the 2004 Sharesave Scheme 2004 SAYE for directors and certain employees.
Under the 2004 SAYE scheme participants must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
Grants are no longer made under the 2004 SAYE.
Options may be exercised after either the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the grant date in accordance with each employees Savings Contract.
Options must normally be exercised within six months of the date the options are exercisable or within 12 months in the case of death.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or, at the absolute discretion of the Board, redundancy.
In June 2008 the Company adopted the 2008 Sharesave Scheme 2008 SAYE for directors and certain employees.
Under the 2008 SAYE scheme participants must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
The number of options granted to a participant under the 2008 SAYE scheme is at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Options were granted for the first time under the 2008 SAYE in 2009.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the 2008 SAYE scheme in any year may not be more than 10% of the ordinary share capital on issue at the time of granting options.
The exercise price to be paid by a participant when exercising options granted will be determined by the directors and shall not be less than the greater of 80% of market value of the shares at the date of invitation to enter the SAYE scheme or the nominal value of unissued shares.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following exercise prices: 2009 2009 2008 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average 2009 2008 exercise price remaining life Number exercise price remaining life Number Exercise price p p years p years of shares of shares 160.5 160.5 0.9 22,120 160.5 1.9 33,180 367.0 497.2 381.0 2.6 1,527,250 418.4 3.11,011,424 640.1 640.1 1.2 139,948 640.1 2.3241,354 Medium Term Incentive Plan Medium Term Incentive Plan MTIP participants must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the options.
The number of options granted to a participant under the MTIP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Only market-purchased shares may be used for awards under the MTIP.
The value of the MTIP award is based on a percentage of salary as determined by the Remuneration Committee each year, following assessment of the employee company performance over the prior financial year the performance year.
The number granted is based on dividing the value of the award by the average share price in December preceding the performance year.
There is no monetary consideration payable for the options granted and shares subsequently acquired under the plan to directors and employees, these are granted by Deed only.
Options may be exercised in two stages: 50% of options may be exercised in January of the second financial year after the year in which they were granted: the remaining 50% may be exercised in January of the third financial year after the options were granted.
Options may only be granted subject to satisfactory completion of performance conditions.
Options must normally be exercised before the expiry of seven years from the date of the grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
The exercise price of the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2009 is nil 2008: nil, and the weighted average life of the share options is four years.
Share-based payments continued Performance Share Plan In 2005 the Group established an incentive plan for full-time directors and senior executives.
All participants in the Performance Share Plan PSP must be employed by United Business Media Limited or one of its subsidiaries at the time of granting the awards.
The value of awards granted to a participant under the PSP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, but may not exceed 1.5 times base salary, save that in exceptional circumstances awards of up to 2 times base salary may be made.
Grants were made during the year under the PSP to full-time directors and senior executives, which requires United Business Medias total shareholder return TSR to outperform a comparator group of companies over a three year period.
25% of the award will vest if TSR is at median position subject to a maximum value of 25% of base salary and 100% if TSR is in the top decile.
In between these positions, the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The awards are made in the form of options exercisable on payment of a nominal value of 1.
The number of ordinary shares over which an award is made is calculated by dividing the monetary value of the award by the price of UBM ordinary shares at the time of grant.
The number of ordinary shares over which awards may be granted under the Performance Plan may not result in more than 10% of the ordinary share capital being issued or issuable under the Companys incentive plans in any ten-year period.
It is expected that market purchased shares will generally be used to satisfy awards under the PSP.
Bonus Investment Plan In 2005 the Group established the Bonus Investment Plan BIP, which replaced the SEEPP.
This enables participants to defer part of their annual bonus into United Business Media Limited ordinary shares and provides the opportunity to earn further shares.
25% of any annual bonus award will be automatically be deferred into shares to be held for three years, and the participant may also elect to defer up to a further 25% into shares for the same period.
At the end of three years if the employee remains in service with the Company then the participant could receive a matching award of up to two additional shares for every share held if the Companys adjusted earnings per share have grown by more than an average of at least 8% per annum above UK retail price index growth over the three-year period.
A lower ratio of matching shares may be earned if earnings per share have grown by between 3% and 8% per annum above UK retail price index growth.
Awards are made in the form of options which are exercisable on payment of a nominal 1.
The number of ordinary shares which may be placed under option under the BIP depends on the monetary value of the bonus awarded to an employee during the year.
The amount of bonus depends upon employee company performance over the prior financial year the year of performance measurement.
For the element which is mandatorily paid in shares, the number is calculated by dividing 25% of the monetary value of the bonus by the average December share price in the year preceding the year of performance measurement.
For any further element which the employee elects to defer into shares, the number is calculated by dividing the relevant monetary value by the share price at the time of the award.
Options, once vested, must normally be exercised before the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
Options may be exercised earlier in the event of death, or ceasing to be employed due to retirement, injury, disability or redundancy.
A reconciliation of option movements over the year for all plans is as follows: 2009 2009 2009 ESOS 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise price price price of options of options of options p p p m m m At 1 January 6.0 556.5 0.2 1.3 453.4 Granted 2.7 410.8 1.2 367.0 Forfeited Exercised 0.1 247.2 0.1 Expired 0.9 569.0 0.8 435.2 7.7 506.8 0.1 1.7 399.6 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 3.3 585.0 0.1 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 27.
Share-based payments continued 2009 2009 2009 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price of options exercise price m p m p m p At 1 January 0.4 2.7 1.4 Granted 0.9 0.3 Forfeited Exercised 0.2 1.1 0.4 Expired 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.1 1.9 1.0 Exercisable at 31 December 2009 0.4 There are periodic share option exercises throughout the year and the average UBM share price in 2009 was 445.8p 2008: 527.7p.
2008 2008 2008 ESOS 2000 SEEPP SAYE Weighted Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price of options exercise price m p m p m p At 1 January 4.5 582.4 0.3 1.1 479.4 Granted 2.2 506.0 0.9 409.9 Forfeited Exercised 0.3 499.7 0.1 0.2 236.3 Expired 0.4 605.4 0.5 555.1 6.0 556.5 0.2 1.3 453.4 Exercisable at 31 December 2008 3.7 573.9 0.1 2008 2008 2008 MTIP PSP BIP Weighted Weighted Weighted Number average Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price of options exercise price m p m p m p At 1 January 0.5 3.0 1.0 Granted 0.1 0.3 0.5 Forfeited Exercised 0.2 0.3 Expired 0.3 0.1 0.4 2.7 1.4 Exercisable at 31 December 2008 0.2 0.4 Section 3: Financial statements 111 27.
Share-based payments continued Valuation of share-based payments Options granted under the 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme and the SAYE plan were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing models.
Nil cost options and restricted shares excluding the PSP awards with TSR-based performance conditions were valued based on the share price at grant date less the value of any dividends foregone during the period to exercise.
The following table provides the weighted averages of the assumptions used to value options granted during the year ended 31 December 2009: 2009 2008 Dividend yield 5.0% 4.5% Expected volatility 20.0% 20.0% Risk-free rate 1.9% 3.8% Forfeiture assumptions % per year : All plans excluding SAYE 5.0% 5.0% SAYE 10.0% 10.0% Weighted average share price at grant date: Options 430p 526p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 434p 600p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 438p 511p Weighted average fair value at grant date: Options 51p 81p Nil cost options share awards without TSR condition 514p 540p Nil cost options share awards with TSR condition 256p 181p Expected life Equal to vesting period Equal to vesting period The expected volatility is based on a forward looking long term management view.
A Monte Carlo simulation model was used for valuing PSP awards which have a performance condition based on the ranking of UBM TSR growth relative to a group of media-related comparator companies.
The additional assumptions made for this purpose are that the average correlation of TSR growth between companies is 19% 2008: 19% and the average of the individual volatility assumptions used for each comparator company is 46% 2008: 30%.
The total charge for the year relating to the employee share-based payment plans was 2.9m 2008: 8.4m.
Of this amount, 2.4 m 2008: 7.9m related to equitysettled share-based payment transactions.
The remaining 0.5m 2008: 0.5m relates to that 25% of cash bonus earned which may be deferred for shares under the BIP at the option of the employee, which is treated as cash-settled liability at 31 December 2009 until the actual deferral amount is known.
At 31 December 2009, the cash-settled liability was 0.5m 2008: 0.5m.
The total charge for the year includes an amount in relation to 0.6 million nil cost BIP options that are expected may be issued in 2010 based on services provided and performance over 2009.
The weighted average fair value for these awards is 387p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2009.
The expense will be adjusted in 2010 where appropriate to allow for the actual number of awards granted and fair value at grant date.
In the 2008 total charge for the year it was expected that 0.7 million nil cost MTIP and BIP options were to be issued in 2009 with a weighted average fair value of 487p and the awards are expensed over four years starting in January 2008.
The Group has adopted the exemption in IFRS 2 Share-based payments to fair value options granted from 7 November 2002 onwards.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 28.
Other reserves Foreign Capital currency Merger redemption translation ESOP Other Total other Retained Minority reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves earnings interests Total m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 101.1 51.8 40.3 24.0 129.1 217.7 301.3 5.7 77.9 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 107.1 11.7 95.4 61.6 9.0 166.0 Capital reorganisation 833.3 52.1 885.4 1,305.7 420.3 Capital reorganisation repurchase of B shares 0.3 0.3 9.3 9.0 Share-based payment 7.9 7.9 Equity dividends 54.4 54.4 Minority interest dividends 7.1 7.1 Shares awarded by ESOP 4.5 4.5 4.5 Balance at 31 December 2008 732.2 66.8 19.5 117.4 567.5 1,005.7 7.6 445.8 2 Total comprehensive losses for the year 51.7 7.9 43.8 21.2 6.5 16.1 Share-based payment 2.4 2.4 Equity dividends 58.8 58.8 Minority interest dividends 4.4 4.4 Acquisition of minority interests see Note 29 8.5 0.2 8.7 Shares awarded by ESOP 13.6 13.6 13.6 Balance at 31 December 2009 732.2 15.1 5.9 125.3 597.7 948.4 9.5 360.2 1 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2008 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 190.5m, on net debt of 87.7 m and on joint ventures and associates of 4.3m.
The amount recognised in the other reserve represents the losses on cash flow hedges arising during the year of 8.3m and reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss of 3.4m.
The amount included in retained earnings represents profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of 75.9m and B share equity shareholders of 0.5m, less actuarial losses recognised in the Groups pension schemes of 9.3m and the pension schemes of associates of 3.3m, less the movement in the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus of 2.2m.
The amount included in the minority interest represents the profit attributable to minority interests of 6.3m plus currency translation difference on foreign operations of 2.7m.
2 The amount included in the foreign currency translation reserve for 2009 represents the currency translation difference on foreign operations on Group subsidiaries of 78.1 m, on net debt of 27.9m and on joint ventures and associates of 1.5 m. The amount recognised in the other reserve represents the gains on cash flow hedges arising during the year of 0.2m and reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss of 7.7m.
The amount included in retained earnings represents profit attributable to equity shareholders of 75.2m, less actuarial losses recognised in the Groups pension schemes of 63.9m and the pension schemes of associates of 3.9m, plus the movement in the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus of 13.8m.
The amount included in the minority interest represents the profit attributable to minority interests of 6.6m less currency translation difference on foreign operations of 0.1m.
Merger reserve During 2008 a reorganisation of the corporate structure of the Group took place to create a new holding company which is UK-listed, incorporated in Jersey and with its tax residence in the Republic of Ireland.
This capital reorganisation that took place involved a Scheme of Arrangement and subsequent capital reduction and details relating to these transactions as well as an explanation of the impact on the financial statements is included in Note 25.
Capital redemption reserve Entries were made to the capital redemption reserve during 2008 to ensure there was no reduction in capital when the former parent company repurchased its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 no entries will be required to the capital redemption reserve in relation to any future transactions whereby the Company repurchases its own shares.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the effect of hedging net investments of foreign operations.
Other reserve This reserve includes unrealised gains and losses on hedging instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting is used.
ESOP reserve The ESOP reserve records ordinary shares held by the ESOP to satisfy future share awards.
The shares are recorded at cost.
Acquisitions The Group completed five acquisitions during 2009.
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired Iasist S. A. for a total cash consideration of 6.4m.
Iasist S. A. is a provider of benchmarking data and software to regional health authorities, hospitals and other health service providers, principally in Spain and Portugal.
Iasist S. A is reported within the Data, Services and Online segment.
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 48% of the voting rights of RISI Inc. for a total cash consideration of $14.3m.
This equity purchase brings UBMs total shareholding in RISI Inc. to 79% 2008: 52%, although 100% of the voting rights are now owned 2008: 52%.
RISI Inc. provides online and printed market, pricing, news and analysis and benchmarking products and services on the forest product industry.
RISI Inc is reported within the Data, Services and Online segment.
On 31 July 2009, the Group acquired The Fuel Team for an initial cash consideration of $2.5m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $4.5m payable over the next three years.
The Fuel Team builds and hosts specialist website modules or, microsites for communications professional working in businesses, healthcare and not-for-profit organisations.
The Fuel Team is reported within the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment.
On 27 August 2009, the Group acquired a 70% interest in the China International Optoelectronic Expo CIOE for a total cash consideration of $5m.
CIOE is the worlds largest optoelectronics event held annually in Shenzhen.
The event covers all aspects of the market, including laser and infrared applications, precision optics, optical communications and LEDs.
CIOE was allocated to the Events segment and was subsequently transferred at cost to the joint venture eMedia Asia Limited on 30 December 2009.
On 14 December 2009, the Group acquired Virtual Press Office for an initial cash consideration of $6.5m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $3.5m payable over the next three years.
Virtual Press Office is the market-leading provider of communications and marketing services to live event organisers, exhibitors and attendees.
Virtual Press Office is reported within the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring segment.
The Group acquired 100% of the voting rights in all cases where acquisitions involved the purchase of companies unless where otherwise stated.
The acquisition accounting for Virtual Press Office has been determined on a provisional basis as the valuation exercise at the date of acquisition is ongoing.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of businesses excluding RISI Inc. during 2009: 2009 2009 Fair Acquirees value carrying to Group amount m m Intangible assets 6.3 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.8 2.8 Trade receivables and other current assets 4.5 4.5 13.7 7.5 Trade payables and other current liabilities 3.5 4.1 Deferred tax liability 1.3 4.8 4.1 Fair value of net assets 8.9 Goodwill arising on acquisition net of changes in estimates of deferred consideration of 5.7m 8.6 17.5 The total consideration paid and payable on acquisitions is shown below: 2009 m Consideration: Cash paid 18.3 Deferred consideration 0.8 Total consideration 17.5 The acquisition of RISI Inc. has been accounted for using the entity concept method as control was already held by the Group on the date of the acquisition.
2009 m Cash paid 8.7 Carrying amount of minority interest on acquisition date 0.4 Remaining minority interest after 3 July 2009 0.2 Recognised in equity see Note 28 8.5 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 29.
Acquisitions continued The Group completed 14 acquisitions during 2008.
2 January 2008, the Group acquired certain assets from Mass Event Labs, Inc for an initial cash consideration of $1.2m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $3.8m payable over the next four years.
22 January 2008, the Group acquired Think Service, Inc for an initial cash consideration of $24.5m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $5.0m payable over the next year.
8 February 2008, the Group acquired Exposure Events UK Limited, for an initial cash consideration of 0.6m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to 1.9m payable over the next two years.
25 February 2008, the Group acquired AeroStategys aviation data business for an initial cash consideration of $0.9m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $1.2m payable over the next three years.
29 February 2008, the Group acquired Vision Events for a total cash consideration of $11.4m.
30 May 2008, the Group acquired the Embedded Systems Show for a total cash consideration of 0.1m.
30 May 2008, the Group acquired Next Level for an initial cash consideration of $5.0m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to $6.5m payable over the next three years.
22 July 2008, the Group acquired the International Direct Marketing Fair for a total cash consideration of 0.3m.
25 July 2008, the Group acquired the Sleep Event and the Arc Show for an initial cash consideration of 3.6m, with a further performance-related consideration of 0.4m payable over the next year.
22 August 2008, the Group acquired certain assets from Pyramid Research, LLC for a total cash consideration of $8.0m.
8 October 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of a 50% stake in Securex for total cash consideration of ZAR6.8m.
The Group accounts for Securex as a joint venture.
14 November 2008, the Group acquired full control of Xinhua PR Newswire for a total cash consideration of $6m.
20 November 2008, the Group acquired Global Games Media for an initial cash consideration of 0.1m, with a further performance-related consideration of 1.4m payable over the next three years.
9 December 2008, the Group acquired Sanguine Microelectronics for an initial cash consideration of $8m, with a further performance-related consideration of $9.5m payable over the next three years.
The following table sets out the carrying amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value in respect of the acquisition of businesses during 2008: 2008 2008 Acquirees Fair value carrying to Group amount m m Intangible assets 18.7 0.7 Property, plant and equipment 1.0 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 2.9 Trade receivables and other current assets 5.3 5.3 Associates and joint ventures 0.4 28.5 9.4 Trade payables and other current liabilities 12.5 9.5 Deferred tax liability 3.0 15.5 9.5 Fair value of net assets 13.0 Goodwill arising on acquisition including changes in estimates of deferred consideration of 0.8m 44.9 57.9 Section 3: Financial statements 115 29.
Acquisitions continued The total consideration paid and payable on acquisitions is shown below: 2008 m Consideration: Cash paid 38.4 Deferred consideration 19.5 Total consideration 57.9 As disclosed in Note 1, the acquisition accounting adjustments have been finalised in relation to certain acquisitions which were made in 2008.
The amounts disclosed above have been restated in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2009, the acquisitions made in 2009 have contributed 2.6m of profit to operating loss and 4.8m to revenue of the Group.
If the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, the acquisitions would have contributed 2.8m of profit to operating loss and 9.6m to revenue of the Group.
Acquisitions made in 2008 contributed 5.1m to operating profit and 22.5m to revenue of the Group from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2008.
If the acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of that year, the acquisitions would have contributed 6.9m to operating profit and 31.4m to revenue of the Group.
The goodwill of 9.3m 2008: 44.9m recognised above relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured.
These include items such as customer loyalty, market share and a skilled workforce.
The aggregate cash flow effect of acquisitions was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Net cash acquired with the subsidiaries 2.8 2.9 Cash paid to acquire subsidiaries 18.3 38.0 Cash paid to acquire interests in associates and joint ventures 0.4 Deferred consideration on 2005 acquisitions 2.1 Deferred consideration on 2006 acquisitions 1.7 1.4 Deferred consideration on 2007 acquisitions 1.2 9.1 Deferred consideration on 2008 acquisitions 7.2 Net cash outflow on acquisitions 25.6 48.1 The movement in the deferred consideration payable during the year was: 2009 2008 m m Balance at 1 January 2009 38.6 23.1 Acquisitions 5.0 18.9 Deferred consideration paid 10.1 12.6 Changes in estimates 5.7 0.8 Currency translation 2.7 8.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 25.1 38.6 The Group paid 10.1m of deferred consideration during 2009 in relation to the 2006 acquisitions of Aviation Industry Group, Thames Gateway Forum and MediReach Healthcare Communication, the 2007 acquisitions of Energy Solutions Expo, Semiconductor Insights Inc, How Machines Work Corporation and Portelligent Inc and the 2008 acquisitions of Mass Event Labs, Exposure Events UK Limited, Aerostrategys aviation data business, Next Level, Sanguine Microelectronics, the Sleep Event and the Arc Show.
Under the terms of the relevant sale and purchase agreements, additional consideration was payable if certain revenue and profit targets were met.
None of the deferred consideration balances are individually material.
The Group paid 12.6m of deferred consideration during 2008 in relation to the 2005 acquisitions of ICMI and Black Hat, the 2006 acquisitions of the Software conference, Thames Gateway Forum, Aviation Industry Group and MediReach Healthcare Communications and the 2007 acquisitions of Semiconductor Insights Inc, Notilog, Energy Solutions Expo, Intermodal South America trade show and Vintage Filings LLC.
Under terms of the relevant sale and purchase agreements, additional consideration was payable if certain revenue and profit targets were met.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 29.
Acquisitions continued The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions are as follows: As restated 2009 2008 m m Brands 2.8 7.9 Customer contracts and relationships 1.3 6.9 Databases 0.7 2.2 Subscription lists 0.3 Software 1.2 1.7 Total 6.3 18.7 30.
Commitments Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial property and machinery leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable property operating leases are as follows: Land and Land and buildings buildings 2009 2008 m m Within one year 30.9 30.5 Later than one year and not later than five years 67.1 75.9 Later than five years 6.0 14.7 104.0 121.1 The future minimum lease payments payable under non-cancellable other operating leases are nil 2008: nil.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into commercial property leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have remaining terms of between one and six years, with varying escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Within one year 7.8 8.1 Later than one year and not later than five years 19.8 20.0 Later than five years 0.8 3.6 28.4 31.7 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounts to 6.8m 2008: 3.3m.
Principal subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of United Business Media Limited and the principal subsidiaries listed on the table below.
The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiaries would lead to a statement of excessive length.
The following information relates to those subsidiaries results or financial position of which, in the opinion of the directors, principally contribute to the Group.
Country of incorporation Percentage equity interest at and operation 31 December 2009 CMPMedica Asia Pte Limited Singapore 100 CNW Group Limited Canada 50 Maypond Holdings Limited Republic of Ireland 100 PR Newswire Association, LLC.
USA 100 PR Newswire Europe Limited Great Britain 100 RISI, Inc USA 79 Socit dEditions Scientifiques et Culturelles SA France 100 1 UBM Asia Limited Hong Kong 100 UBM Aviation Group Limited Great Britain 100 2 UBM Global Trade, Inc USA 100 UBM Information Limited Great Britain 100 UBMi B. V. Netherlands 100 United Business Media Great Britain 100 United Business Media Finance Sarl Luxembourg 100 United Business Media Finance, Inc. USA 100 United Business Media Group Limited Great Britain 100 United Business Media, LLC USA 100 United Finance Limited Great Britain 100 Vidal S. A. France 100 Wenport Limited Republic of Ireland 100 1 UBM Asia Limited was formerly CMP Asia Limited.
2 UBM Global Trade, Inc was formerly Commonwealth Business Media, Inc. All companies stated as being incorporated in Great Britain are registered in England and Wales.
None of the above subsidiaries are held directly by the Company, with the exception of Maypond Holdings Limited.
Related party transactions The Group entered into the following transactions with related parties during the year: Balances Balances owed by owed by due to the due to the Group at Value of Group at Value of 31 December transactions 31 December transactions Nature of Nature of 2009 2009 2008 2008 Transactions with related parties relationship transactions m m m m CMP Weka Verlag GmbH Joint Venture Licensing revenue 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.2 PR Newswire do Brasil Associate Newswire service 0.2 0.3 0.2 Guangzhou Beauty Fair Joint Venture Commission and 0.1 0.1 management fees Leaders Quest, a non-profit organisation, organised various management conferences for the Group during the year for fees of 7,000 2008: 7,750.
Lindsay Levin, wife of David Levin, is a partner of Leaders Quest.
The Group has provided services to Oxford University Press, a university publisher, during the year for fees of 3,058 2008: nil.
David Levin, Chief Executive Officer of the Group, was a member of Oxford University Press Finance Committee until 30 September 2009.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued at 31 December 2009 32.
Related party transactions continued Convera Inc. an IT consultancy specialising in search technologies, is party to a five year contract with the Group under which it is entitled to receive a share of revenues from certain related products.
Payments under this contract in the year were 39,204 2008: $550,000.
The Group also provided services to Convera Inc. during the year for fees of $3,285 2008: nil.
John Botts, non-executive director of the Group, is a director of Convera Inc.
The Group has provided services to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, an international publishing, events and electronic information group, during the year for fees of 4,000 2008: nil.
John Botts is a director of Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.
The Group has provided services to SpinVox Limited, a voice-to-text conversion application company, during the year for fees of $195 2008: nil.
Additionally, Spinvox Limited has provided services to the Group during the year at a cost of 300 2008: 300.
John Botts was a director of SpinVox Limited until 31 December 2009.
Microland, an IT infrastructure management outsourcing services provider, has provided services to the Group for fees of 162,048 2008: 149,039 during the year.
During 2009, the Group provided advertising services and event sponsorship to Microland for 14,936 2008: nil.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had a trade payable with Microland of 39,339 2008: 29,130.
Pradeep Kar, a non-executive director of the Group, is founder, chairman and managing director of Microland.
IQ Resource, a strategic outsourcing company specialising in business media and information services, provides services to the Group for which the Group paid fees of $216,066 2008: $295,895.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had a trade payable with IQ Resource of $3,804 2008: $51,723.
Jonathan Newcomb, a non-executive director of the Group, holds an option over equity shares in IQ Resource.
The Group has provided services to the Bank of Ireland, a financial services provider, during the year for fees of 12,000 2008: nil.
Terry Neill, a non-executive director of the Group, is a non-executive director of the Bank of Ireland.
The Group has provided services to Halfords Group Plc, a leading retailer, during the year for fees of 8,000 2008: nil.
Nigel Wilson, Chief Financial Officer of the Group until 7 May 2009, is the Senior Independent Director of Halfords Group Plc.
Also, during 2009, the Group has participated in the Cycle to Work scheme operated by Halfords Group Plc, with total transactions of 33,243 2008: 26,834.
Transactions are made on behalf of employees and are recharged in full to employees through monthly payroll.
Vodafone, the mobile telecommunications company, provides services to the Group.
Karen Thomson, a non-executive director of the Group was a director of Vodafone UK Limited between 30 April 2007 and 30 June 2008.
Transactions with related parties are made at arms-length.
Outstanding balances at year end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
There are no bad debt provisions for related party balances as at 31 December 2009, and no related party transactions have been written-off during the year.
Unless otherwise stated above there are no amounts owed by or due to related parties by the Group as at 31 December 2009 and 2008.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel are the Groups executive directors and the following is the aggregate compensation of these directors: 2009 2008 m m Short term employee benefits 2.0 2.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 2.4 2.3 4.6 5.0 33.
Events after the reporting period On 12 February 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of a 70% interest in Sign China for an initial cash consideration of $10.7m, with a further performancerelated consideration of up to $3.9m payable over two years.
On 23 February 2010, the Group announced the acquisition of Game Advertising Online for an initial cash consideration of $1.0m, with a further performancerelated consideration of up to $7.0m payable within 12 months of completion.
On 3 March 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of E-Commerce Expo for an initial cash consideration of 0.6m, with a further performance-related consideration of up to 1.2m payable over the next year.
