132 Financial calendar 2010 Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members Record date for 2009 second interim dividend 16 April of United Business Media Limited the Company, as a body, and no Annual General Meeting 13 May other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom Second interim dividend payment date 20 May this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such Announcement of interim results 29 July responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the First interim dividend for 2010 payment date October statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our business Our activities UBM is a leading global business media company.
We serve specialist We provide many di erent types of products to a wide range business communities with tradeshows and other live in person of industries, in more than 40 countries around the world.
events: data, marketing and information products: print products: e graphics below provide three key perspectives on and targeting, distribution and monitoring services.
UBMs business: We employ over 5,800 professionals in more than 30 countries around Product segment the world.
Our sta are organised into specialist teams that serve Community these business communities, helping them and their markets to work e ectively and e ciently.
Geography Our strategy Our goals Our strategy focuses on building businesses which are positioned to Strategic priority 1 Delivering shareholder returns prosper in the emerging digital age and which have the potential for global growth.
Our primary purpose is to create long term value and generate returns for shareholders.
See page 12 We aim to develop our worldwide live events portfolio in particular, tradeshows, business information and market data analytical services Strategic priority 2 businesses and our targeting, distribution and monitoring business, Ensuring a balanced media portfolio with a particular focus on fast-growing, emerging markets such as We are rebalancing UBMs aggregate media portfolio toward events, China, India and Brazil.
We develop our businesses both by making data services and online products, and towards targeting, distribution acquisitions and by investing in the development of our own products and monitoring services.
We transfer the skills, knowledge and experience we gain in serving Strategic priority 3 one community across and between markets, transferring best practice Making acquisitions to take a leading position in markets and innovation from one community to another, from one geography We acquire businesses that advance UBMs position in key vertical to another, from one product type to another.
and geographical markets, targeting returns in excess of our cost of capital.
See page 13 Revenue by Product 1 1 Events: 287.5m Strategic priority 4 2 Data, Services and Online: 232.9m 4 Driving UBMs pro table growth 3 Print: 165.8m 4 Targeting, Distribution We drive our pro table growth by investing in new product and Monitoring: 161.4m development to refresh and extend our existing product portfolios, as well as to enter new geographical markets.
See page 14 2 3 Strategic priority 5 Developing our people and management Revenue by Community 9 1 8 A key part of accelerating our pro table growth is in attracting, 1 Technology: 27% developing and retaining the most talented people at all levels within 7 2 Health: 27% UBM.
We are actively developing a UBM culture which supports 3 Built Environment: 7% our evolution as an agile, entrepreneurial and innovative company.
6 4 Ingredients: 8% See page 15 5 Fashion: 7% 2 5 6 Lifestyle: 9% 7 Trade and Transportation: 10% 4 8 Paper: 3% 3 9 Other: 2% Revenue by Geography 5 7 1 6 1 USA Canada: 386.6m 2 Europe: 159.4m 4 3 UK: 129.6m 4 China: 101.4m 5 Brazil South America: 6.1m 6 India and Asia Pacic: 41.6m 3 7 Rest of World: 22.9m 2 Excluding Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com United Business Media Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Bringing Business Communities Together Annual Report and Accounts 2009 United Business Media Limited www.
