Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year, are set out below: Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulations.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 amended : Embedded derivatives IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements IFRIC 17: Distributions of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18: Transfers of assets from customers IAS 24 revised : Related party disclosures IAS 27: Consolidated and seperate financial statements IAS 28 revised : Investments in associates IAS 32 amended : Financial instruments: presentation IAS 39 amended : Eligible hedged items IFRS 1 amended : Additional exemptions for first time adopters IFRS 3 amended : Business combinations IFRS 9: Financial instruments The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for the treatment of the acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 revised comes into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010 and additional disclosures when the relevant standards come into effect.
The consolidated financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivatives and assets held for sale which are measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
86 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Sales of goods are normally recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Revenue from contracts to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on long-term contracts see accounting policy Long-term contracts.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Long-term contracts Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at the actual exchange rates at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the income statement.
The trading results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, using the average rates of exchange during the relevant financial period.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year-end.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and results are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on the acquisition of foreign entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs as sterling denominated assets and liabilities.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred, except where they relate to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match them with the expenditure towards which they are intended to contribute, to the extent that the conditions for receipt have been met and there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 87 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Retirement benefit costs The Group provides pensions to its employees and Directors through defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The schemes are funded and their assets are held independently of the Group by trustees.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any internally generated intangible asset arising from development activities is recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified, it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefit and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets Costs associated with producing or maintaining computer software programmes for sale are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, that will generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year and that can be measured reliably, are recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised software development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the related asset.
Acquired computer software licenses for use within the Group are capitalised as intangible assets on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Patents and trademarks are stated initially at historical cost.
Patents and trademarks have definite useful lives and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising from a business combination whose fair value can be reliably measured are separated from goodwill and amortised on a straight line basis over their remaining useful lives.
Impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
88 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at original historical cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold buildings 40 to 50 years Short leasehold improvements over remaining period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Rentals under operating leases, where the Group acts as either lessee or lessor, are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis and including an appropriate proportion of overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition and net realisable value.
Provision is made for any obsolete, slow moving or defective items.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at fair value.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in-hand, call deposits and bank overdrafts, where there is right of set off.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Assets held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Trade payables Trade payables are stated at their fair value.
Bank loans and overdrafts Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 89 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model.
Provisions Provisions, including property related provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and where it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provision is made for the anticipated cost of repair and rectification of products under warranty, based on known exposures and historical occurrences.
Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to affected parties.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments Ultra uses derivative financial instruments, principally forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements.
Ultra does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities and measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is not adjusted to reflect fair value changes arising from the hedged risk.
Provided the conditions specified by IAS 39 are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this income statement volatility.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting will not generally be applied to transactional hedging relationships, such as hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
However, hedge accounting will be applied to translational hedging relationships where it is permissible under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships will be classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
90 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Derivative financial instruments continued Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability will be adjusted by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or as a net investment hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument will be recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For cash flow hedges of forecasted future transactions, when the hedged item is recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity will be either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged items result in a non-financial asset, will be recognised as adjustments to its initial carrying amount.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards have been adopted: IAS 1 revised 2009 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a Statement of Changes in Equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
As a result a Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity has been included in the primary statements, showing changes in each component of equity for each year reported.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes, which is regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
IFRS 8 allows the aggregation of operating segments if they exhibit similar long term financial performance or if they have similar economic characteristics.
Adoption of IFRS 8 has not led to a change in the Groups reportable segments.
IFRS 2 amended clarifies that for share-based payments, vesting conditions are service and performance conditions only and that all cancellations of awards, whether by the entity or by other parties should receive the same accounting treatment.
The adoption of these amendments does not have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IAS 23 revised removes the option of immediately expensing borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset and instead requires these costs to be capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Whilst this is an accounting policy change, it does not represent a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 7 amended expands the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty CONTRACT REVENUE AND PROFIT RECOGNITION A significant proportion of the Groups activities are conducted under long term contract arrangements and are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Revenue and profit on such contracts is recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date of the particular contract and is calculated by reference to reliable estimates of contract revenue and expected costs.
Expected costs are calculated after taking account of the perceived contract risks related to performance not yet proven.
Owing to the complexity of some of the contracts undertaken by the Group the cost estimation process requires significant judgement and is carried out using the experience of the Groups engineers, project managers and finance and commercial professionals.
Because of the level of judgement required, cost estimates are reviewed and updated on a regular basis using the Groups established project management processes.
Some of the factors that will impact upon cost estimates include the availability of suitably qualified labour, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the impact of change orders and the performance of sub-contractors.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Where services are rendered, sales are recognised when the stage of completion of the services and the related revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
Where goods are delivered under arrangements not considered to fall under the scope of IAS 11 Construction Contracts, revenue is recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 91 Financials Group Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS The Group accounts for its post-retirement pension plans in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined periodically by independent actuaries and charged to the income statement in the period in which those benefits have been earned by the employees.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the scheme liabilities as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
The main assumptions used in determining the defined benefit post retirement obligation include the discount rate used in discounting scheme liabilities, the inflation rate, the expected rate of salary inflation, the expected rate of future pension increases, expected returns on scheme assets and future mortality assumptions.
For each of these assumptions, there is a range of possible values.
Relatively small changes in some of these variables can have a significant impact on the level of the total obligation.
The valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities at a specific point of time rather than over a period of time can lead to significant annual movements in the pension scheme deficit as calculated under IAS 19, but has no impact on short-term cash contributions since these are based upon separate independent actuarial valuations.
Details of the pension scheme assumptions and obligation at 31 December 2009 are provided in note 29.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
IFRS 3 also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition.
The assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets requires the use of estimates and judgements, that may differ from the actual outcome.
These estimates and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
The impairment review requires the use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash generating ability of the related business.
The estimates used may differ from the actual outcome.
Details of the impairment review calculations are provided in note 13.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivatives in the normal course of business to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates.
Derivatives are accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet as assets or liabilities at fair value in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Accounting for derivatives is complex and significant judgements and estimates are involved in estimating the fair value of these instruments.
Generally, fair value estimates of derivative contracts involve the selection of an appropriate valuation model and determining the appropriate inputs to use in that model.
In evaluating whether a particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, the Group determines whether the relationship meets the strict criteria to qualify for exemption from ongoing effectiveness testing.
For a relationship that does not meet these criteria, effectiveness is tested by determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative offset, within a specified range, changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
If fair value changes fail this test, hedge accounting is no longer used.
GOING CONCERN On 5th February 2010 the Group renewed its 120m banking facility which is provided by a small syndicate led by the Royal Bank of Scotland.
This renewed facility provides revolving credit over a three and a half year period and is denominated in Sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros or US dollars and is used for balance sheet and operational needs.
The facility is provided in equal proportions by the Royal Bank of Scotland, Bank of America, Barclays, Lloyds TSB and Santander.
This facility is in addition to the Groups existing 80m Revolving Credit Facility and a 10m overdraft facility for funding short-term working capital requirements.
The US, Canadian dollar and Euro borrowings represent natural hedges against assets denominated in these currencies.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met during the past year with a comfortable margin and the expectation is that this will continue.
92 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Statement of accounting policies in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued GOING CONCERN continued Whilst the current volatility in financial markets has created general uncertainty in respect of the current economic outlook, the long-term nature of Ultras business taken together with the Groups forward order book provide a satisfactory level of confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
At the beginning of 2010 Ultra had firm orders in place for over 60% of its consensus forecast sales in the year.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 93 Financials Group
