GrOup DireCtOry Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia Mexico City, Mexico Busan, South Korea Melbourne, Australia Beijing, China Moscow, Russia Calgary, Canada Mumbai, India Cambridge, UK Oslo, Norway Chesterfield, UK Paris, France Dubai, UAE Perth, Australia Frankfurt, Germany Rio fide Janeiro, Brazil Genova, Italy Seoul, South Korea Guangzhou, China Shanghai, China Hamburg, Germany Singapore Hong Kong Solent, UK Houston, USA St Petersburg, Russia Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Stavanger, Norway Madrid, Spain Wilmington, USA Malm, Sweden Yokohama, Japan 80 AVEVA Group plc Other information Annual report 2009 Our divisiOns and markets at a glance AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable of handling all types of digital information not just engineering data to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship.
It enables the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced project and operational information.
americas Wemea ces asia pacific AVEVA has a strong customer base in oil WEMEA represents one of the most In the CES region, AVEVA has continued Over 700 major engineering businesses & gas throughout North and South America, established customer bases for AVEVA, to gain ground with 85 new customers in Asia Pacific now place their trust in its potential for business growth being with market leading presence in the oil this year: in over a third of these AVEVA AVEVA solutions.
Although the region enhanced by deepwater oil reserves off & gas, pulp and paper and naval marine has replaced direct competitors products.
has begun to feel the impact of the AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil.
Over the last twelve months WEMEA AVEVAs broad industry base has proved global financial upheaval, AVEVAs software solutions available for creating and supporting all types Increasing focus on alternative energy has seen significant take up of the AVEVA resilient to economic difficulties, with strength in this important market, of engineering plant.
Whether on complex new-build assets, or sources is creating a renaissance in nuclear NET proposition within the oil & gas continued strong growth in the power and the competitive strengths of its power generation in America: AVEVA is operations market, a sector that AVEVA generation sector.
Major German shipyards customers, have enabled us to maintain the smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum positioned strongly to support this new expects to see significant growth.
have committed to upgrading to AVEVA solid business growth in both the Plant productivity, error-free design, minimum project cost and the demand.
AVEVA continues to invest in Marine, while AVEVA NET continues to and Marine sectors.
most rapid return on investment.
initiatives in the Americas that deliver attract a growing number of plant Owner real competitive advantage, including Operators.
Nuclear power has delivered AVEVAs sustained growth in the traditionally the marketing of AVEVA NET across a strong sales in Southern Europe and, strong Korean and Japanese shipbuilding broad range of industries.
with its particularly strong outlook, markets has been further increased by the we expect to achieve continuing growth adoption of AVEVA Marine solutions by in this sector.
AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVAs largest single development programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction of every type of ship and floating structure.
americas grOup revenue Wemea grOup revenue ces grOup revenue asia grOup revenue 24.4m 26.8m 45.8m 67.1m 37% 2% 40% 32% perfOrmance Americas Region Headquarters Asia Pacific Region Headquarters Europe, Middle East and Africa AVEVA Inc AVEVA Asia Pacific Division Region Headquarters 10350 Richmond Avenue Level 59, Tower 2 AVEVA GmbH Suite 400 PETRONAS Twin Towers KLCC Otto-Volger-Str.
com AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 Who we are A FTSE 250 company headquartered in Cambridge, UK, AVEVA is an acknowledged industry leader in engineering software applications.
AVEVAs worldwide network of sales and support offices is staffed by experienced professionals with unrivalled depth of knowledge of its customers industries.
What we do AVEVA creates and supplies the most powerful software tools available for the engineering, design, construction and lifecycle support of all types of plant and marine assets in the oil & gas, power generation, process plant, minerals processing and shipbuilding industries.
How we do it Through a combination of pioneering inhouse software development, technology acquisition and strategic partnerships, AVEVA continually extends the capabilities of its software solutions to increase its customers competitive advantage, while simultaneously protecting their investment in engineering data.
Directors report 01 Highlights 02 Chairmans statement Group overview: 04 AVEVA NET 06 AVEVA Plant 08 AVEVA Marine 10 Chief Executives review 14 Finance Directors review 18 Corporate social responsibility report 22 Board of Directors 24 Company information and advisers 25 Other statutory information 30 Corporate Governance statement 33 Directors remuneration report Financial statements Group 38 Statement of Directors responsibilities AVEVA Group plc 39 Auditors report High Cross 40 Consolidated income statement 41 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Madingley Road 42 Consolidated balance sheet Cambridge CB3 0HB 43 Consolidated cash flow statement UK 44 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Tel 44 0 1223 556611 Company Fax 44 0 1223 556622 72 Statement of Directors responsibilities 73 Auditors report www.
com 74 Company balance sheet AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2009 75 Notes to the Company financial statements Other information 79 Five year record 80 Group directory
