OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 57 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial company financial statements are required by law to give a statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial preparing these financial statements, the Directors are statements under International Financial Reporting Standards required to: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in consistently: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and IAS Regulation.
prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS been followed, subject to any material departures financial statements present fairly for each financial year the disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure income and expenses set out in the International Accounting that the parent company financial statements comply with the Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are other irregularities.
also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and present information, including accounting policies, in a integrity of the corporate and financial information included manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom understandable information: and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial provide additional disclosures when compliance with the statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
speci c requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
