56 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors of Cookson Group plc are responsible for preparing RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT the Annual Report and the Group and parent company the OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected taken as a whole: and to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development Accounting Practice.
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair uncertainties that they face.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: On behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Mike Butterworth 2 March 2010 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
