co. uk NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Cookson Group plc the Company is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Its registered address is shown on page 135.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 23.
The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 2 March 2010, are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.7.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The financial statements of the Company-only have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, as disclosed in note 1 to the Company financial statements.
2.1 REVISED AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS The following revised and amended standards and interpretations, which have all been endorsed by the EU, have been adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements: their adoption has had no material impact on the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
l Revised IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, has resulted in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense being renamed the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the introduction of the Statement of Changes in Equity as a primary statement.
IAS 1 also requires an additional Balance Sheet to be presented as at the beginning of the earliest comparative period whenever an accounting policy is applied retrospectively, or a retrospective restatement of items is made in the financial statements, or items are reclassified in the financial statements.
The only restatements made in these financial statements are to those notes that contain per share amounts, following the 10 for 1 share consolidation that took effect on 14 May 2009 notes 17, 18 and 40.
The Directors do not consider these restatements to be material and accordingly an additional Balance Sheet has not been presented.
l Revised IAS 23, Borrowing Costs, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, has removed the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The revised standard requires such borrowing costs to be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
The Groups previous policy in relation to borrowing costs was to recognise them in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
l Amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items and IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, effective from 1 July 2008.
In limited circumstances this amendment allows the reclassification of certain financial assets previously classified as held-for-trading or available-for-sale to another category.
l Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1, Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, relate to puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
l Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27, Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, relate to the measurement of the initial cost of investment in a subsidiary.
l Amendments to IFRS 2, Share-based payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions only: other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
It also specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
l Amendment to IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, increases the disclosure requirements for fair value measurement and reinforces existing principles for disclosure of liquidity risk.
l IFRIC 9, Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives, and IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, effective for accounting periods ending on or after 1 July 2008, clarifies the accounting for embedded derivatives when a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss classification.
l IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008, addresses the accounting for loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods or services.
64 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 2.2 STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE The following revised and amended standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and therefore have not been adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
With the possible exception of the IFRS 3 Revised requirement to expense acquisition costs, none of these revised and amended standards and interpretations is expected to have a material impact on the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
l IFRS 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, simplified the structure of IFRS 1 without making any technical changes.
l Amendments to IFRS 1, Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, introduces two additional exemptions for first-time adopters in relation to oil and gas assets.
l Amendments to IFRS 2, Group Cash-Settled Share-based payments transactions, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010, provides a clear basis to determine the classification of share-based payment awards in both consolidated and separate financial statements.
l IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, harmonises business combination accounting with US GAAP.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, but with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently remeasured at fair value through profit or loss: goodwill and non-controlling interests may be calculated on a gross or net basis: and all transaction costs, which under existing practice are treated as part of the cost of a business combination, will be expensed.
l IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
They will no longer result in goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost, with any remaining interest in the entity remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
l IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, is the first part of a new standard on classification and measurement of financial assets that will replace IAS 39. l IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, removes the requirement for government related entities to disclose details of transactions with the government and other government-related entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
l Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010, addresses the accounting for rights issues that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer.
l Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, for Eligible Hedged Items, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies how to apply the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation.
l IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 March 2009, clarifies existing requirements in relation to accounting for government-sponsored infrastructure projects.
l Amendment to IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and Their Interaction, entitled Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or 1 February 2011, applies to companies that are required to make minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan.
l IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning after 31 December 2009, standardises accounting practice for the recognition of revenue by real estate developers for sales before construction is complete.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED 2.2 STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE CONTINUED l IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies which currency exposures qualify for hedge accounting: which entity within a Group can hold the hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation: and how to determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item when an investment in a foreign operation is disposed of.
l IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2009, clarifies how an entity should measure distributions of assets, other than cash, when it pays dividends to its owners.
l IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers, which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for transfers after 31 October 2009, clarifies the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment provided by the customer, is used to provide an ongoing service.
l IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010, clarifies the accounting treatment for equity instruments that are used to extinguish financial liabilities.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and IFRS.
3.2 BASIS FOR PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ON A GOING CONCERN BASIS Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future prospects of the Group, are included in the Chief Executives Report on pages 9 and 10 and the Operating Review on pages 14 to 23.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are included in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 38 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 to 29.
In addition, notes 4 and 38 to the consolidated financial statements set out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 37 to the consolidated financial statements and information relating to the Groups off-balance sheet arrangements is given in notes 29, 45 and 46 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has two committed debt facilities, approximately 680m of syndicated bank facilities and approximately 200m of US Private Placement loan notes.
Of the latter, approximately 84m matures in May 2010.
Of the remaining total facilities, of approximately 796m, the principal maturities are due in 2011 and 2012.
The Groups debt facilities contain a number of financial covenants with which the Group is required to comply and with which it was fully in compliance as at 31 December 2009.
In March 2009, the Group completed a rights issue which raised proceeds net of expenses of 241m which were used to repay gross borrowings, significantly strengthening the Companys and the Groups financial position.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of 12 months from the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current end-market conditions, their impact on the Groups future trading performance and the actions taken by management in response to the difficult market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that end-market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
Such measures include reductions in costs, reductions in capital expenditure and reductions in those items of working capital within managements control.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
66 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.3 DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the reordering of items presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In accordance with IAS 1 Revised, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the face of its Group Income Statement the effect of any components of financial performance considered by the Directors to be exceptional, or for which separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making projections of future results.
Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of major restructuring and integration activity, inventory fair value adjustments, profits or losses relating to non-current assets, amortisation and impairment charges relating to intangible assets, exceptional gains or losses relating to employee benefits plans, finance costs, profits or losses arising on business disposals, and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations due either to their size or nature.
3.4 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing whether control exists, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests previously referred to as minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups interest therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination together with the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to non-controlling interests in excess of their share of the subsidiarys equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
3.5 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5, Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the recognised identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost.
If the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.6 REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered to customers, after deducting sales allowances and value-added taxes.
Revenue is recognised when the risk of loss transfers to the customer, depending on individual customer terms at the time of dispatch, delivery or upon formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.7 FOREIGN CURRENCIES The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group.
a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each subsequent balance sheet date: i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement: ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated: and iii Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity, in which case any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
b Translation from functional currency to presentation currency When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Groups presentational currency pounds sterling, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date: ii Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such average rates does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of the transaction, in which case the transaction rate is used: and iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed of.
c Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement in the separate financial statements of the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
In the consolidated Group financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in translation reserves as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the income statement on disposal of the net investment.
3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type.
a Defined contribution pension plans Contributions to the Groups defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefits expense when they fall due.
Prepaid contributions, to the extent that they result in either a cash refund or a reduction in future payments, are recognised as an asset.
Outstanding contributions are recognised as a liability.
b Defined benefit pension plans The net surplus or net liability recognised in the balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Any asset recognised in respect of a surplus arising from this calculation is limited to the sum of unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
68 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.8 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED b Defined benefit pension plans continued Pension expense for the Groups defined benefit plans is recognised as follows: i Within trading profit: Current service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in the current year: and Past service cost representing the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee service in prior periods that arises from changes made to the benefits under the plans in the current year.
To the extent that the changes to benefits vest immediately, past service costs are recognised immediately, otherwise they are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
ii Within ordinary finance costs: Interest cost on the liabilities of the plans calculated by reference to the plan liabilities and discount rate at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iii Within finance income: Expected return on the assets of the plans calculated by reference to the plan assets and long-term expected rate of return at the beginning of the year and allowing for changes during the year.
iv Within the Statement of Comprehensive Income: Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and liabilities of the plans.
v Gains and losses arising on settlements and curtailments are recognised in the income statement in the same line as the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment or, if material, separately reported as a component of profit from operations.
c Share-based payments The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements for its employees of both the equity-settled and cashsettled type.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of grant takes account of the effect of market-based vesting conditions, such as Total Shareholder Return TSR, and is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant.
For grants with marketbased conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model.
For consistency, this method has also been used to value executive share options and stock appreciation rights granted to executives whose options are not subject to the additional market-based performance conditions.
For all other grants, fair value is measured using the BlackScholes model.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value of the amount payable is initially measured at grant date using a form of stochastic option pricing model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
3.9 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is capitalised if the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
All other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.10 BORROWING COSTS Borrowing costs comprise interest on: loans and overdrafts: finance lease obligations: the unwinding of the discount on long-term provisions: factoring arrangements: and the costs incurred in connection with the arrangement of borrowings.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
3.11 TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the associated tax is also dealt with in equity.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
3.12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Other items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are capitalised only when it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
70 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.12 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available for use and is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Freehold property between 10 and 50 years Leasehold property the term of the lease Plant and machinery motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years other between 5 and 15 years The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at each financial year-end.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, as described in note 3.15.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
3.13 GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or associate represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or associate recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment testing is carried out annually, as described in notes 3.15, 5.2 and 24.
On disposal of a subsidiary or an associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
3.14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognised on business combinations if they are separable, or if they arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
They are amortised over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Asset category Estimated useful life Customer relationships 20 years Trade names 20 years Intellectual property rights 10 years Other between 5 and 10 years 3.15 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use, which is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or CGU, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU.
Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
a Goodwill Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
The Groups CGUs are disclosed in note 23 and represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the CGU may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.15 IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED b Other tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the estimates used to measure the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
Where an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss for tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
3.16 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group conducts its joint venture arrangements through jointly controlled entities and accounts for them using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5.
Where the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture.
3.17 INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using the first in, first out method and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
The amount of any write-down of inventories to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
In addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group holds precious metals under consignment arrangements, further details of which are given in note 29.
3.18 NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Non-current assets or a collection of assets and liabilities in a disposal group are separately classified as held for sale in the balance sheet when their carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Immediately prior to being classified as held for sale the measurement of the assets and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is brought up to date in accordance with applicable IFRS.
Then, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Discontinued operations are those operations that can be clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group, both operationally and for financial reporting purposes, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for sale and which represent a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
72 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.19 LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
a Finance leases Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
b Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
3.20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to manage the effects of its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on its borrowings and borrowing costs.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged note 4.2.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
c Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments include investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Group Statement of Cash Flows.
Loans and borrowings comprise secured and unsecured loans and obligations under finance leases note 3.19.
The Groups investments in equity and debt securities are classified as available-for-sale investments.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
All other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.21 PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost note 3.10.
3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice non-GAAP financial measures in addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS.
Because IFRS measures reflect all items which affect reported performance, the Directors believe that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect what they view as the underlying performance of the Group, are important and should be considered alongside the IFRS measures.
The following non-GAAP measures are referred to in this annual report.
a Net sales value Net sales value is calculated as the total of revenue less the amount included therein related to any precious metal component.
The Directors believe that net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying sales performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
b Return on sales and return on net sales value Return on sales is calculated as trading profit divided by revenue.
Return on net sales value is calculated as trading profit divided by net sales value.
The Directors believe that return on sales provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group and the Groups Ceramics and Electronics divisions and that return on net sales value provides an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Groups Precious Metals division.
c Underlying revenue growth Underlying revenue growth measures the organic growth in revenue from one year to the next after eliminating the effects of changes in exchange rates and metals prices and the effects of business acquisitions, disposals and closures.
The Directors believe that underlying revenue growth gives an important measure of the organic revenue generation capacity of the Group.
d Trading profit Trading profit, defined as profit from operations before restructuring and integration costs, inventory fair value adjustments, profits or losses relating to non-current assets, amortisation and impairment charges relating to intangible assets and exceptional gains or losses relating to employee benefits plans, is separately disclosed on the face of the Group Income Statement.
The Directors believe that trading profit is an important measure of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
e Headline profit before tax Headline profit before tax is calculated as the net total of trading profit, plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint ventures and total net finance costs associated with ordinary activities.
The Directors believe that headline profit before tax provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
74 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3.22 USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES CONTINUED f Headline earnings per share Headline earnings per share is calculated as headline profit before tax after income tax costs associated with ordinary activities and profit attributable to non-controlling interests, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The Directors believe that headline earnings per share provides an important measure of the underlying earnings capacity of the Group.
g Free cash flow Free cash flow, defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment, dividends from joint ventures and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders, but before additional funding contributions to Group pension plans, is disclosed on the face of the Group Statement of Cash Flows.
The Directors believe that free cash flow gives an important measure of the underlying cash generation capacity of the Group.
h Average working capital to sales ratio The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances being inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables to the annualised revenue for that year.
The Directors believe that the average working capital to sales ratio provides an important measure of the underlying effectiveness with which working capital balances are managed throughout the Group.
i EBITDA EBITDA is calculated as the total of trading profit before depreciation charges.
The Directors believe that EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
j Net interest Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein considered by the Directors to be exceptional.
k Interest cover Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest.
The Directors believe that interest cover provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
l Net debt Net debt comprises the net total of current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings and cash and short-term deposits.
The Directors believe that net debt is an important measure as it shows the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions.
m Net debt to EBITDA Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
The Directors believe that net debt to EBITDA provides an important measure of the underlying financial position of the Group.
n Return on net assets Return on net assets RONA is calculated as trading profit plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures, divided by average operating net assets being property, plant and equipment, trade working capital and other operating receivables and payables.
The Directors believe that RONA provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Groups divisions.
o Return on investment Return on investment ROI is calculated as trading profit after tax plus the Groups share of post-tax profit of joint-ventures, divided by invested capital being shareholders funds plus net debt, employee benefits net surpluses and net liabilities and goodwill previously written off to, or amortised against, reserves.
The Directors believe that ROI provides an important measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 4.1 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS a Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from transactions and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
It uses various financial instruments to manage these exposures, as explained below.
l Recognised assets and liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that are attributable to a particular risk and which could affect profit or loss.
Such forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 a. l Forecast transactions Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge against the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that might arise from the fluctuation of exchange rates in relation to highly probable forecast transactions that are denominated in currencies other than its own functional currencies and which might affect profit or loss.
Such forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 b. l Net investment hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts and debt denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are both used to hedge against the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise from fluctuations in exchange rates.
Such financial instruments are accounted for as net investment hedges in accordance with the policy in note 4.2 c. b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group may suffer financial loss as a result of a third party failing to carry out its obligations under a financial instrument.
The Groups main exposure to credit risk is in relation to its trade receivables.
As detailed in note 28, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk The Group Treasury function ensures that there are sufficient levels of committed facilities, cash and cash equivalents to ensure that the Group is at all times able to meet its financial commitments and operate within its financial covenants.
d Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily from its borrowings.
An analysis of the currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings is shown in note 38.
Borrowings at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and borrowings at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
From time to time the Group manages its cash flow and fair value interest rate risk by using interest rate swaps, which have the economic effect of changing the interest rate profile of the Groups borrowings.
4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES The Group designates certain financial instruments as either: a hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities that are attributable to a particular risk and could affect profit or loss fair value hedges : b hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction and could affect profit or loss cash flow hedges : or c hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the financial instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
76 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 4.2 HEDGING ACTIVITIES CONTINUED a Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised within trading profit in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities that are subject to the hedged risk.
b Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within hedging reserves.
The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit, or within finance costs in the case of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction takes place.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised immediately in the income statement.
c Net investment hedges The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective hedge, is recognised directly in equity within translation reserves and subsequently recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately within trading profit in the income statement.
4.3 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group considers its capital to be equal to the sum of its total equity and net debt.
It monitors its capital using a number of key performance indicators, including RONA and ROI note 3.22.
The Groups objectives when managing its capital are: l to ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns: l to maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Groups equity and net debt: l to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable future returns to investors: and l to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
During 2009, in response to the economic downturn, the Group instituted a series of measures to provide a more suitable capital structure and to enhance covenant and longer-term liquidity headroom under its debt facilities.
These included: l the raising of 241m net cash proceeds by way of a rights issue: l implementing a series of cost saving and cash generation initiatives: l reducing levels of working capital: l reducing levels of capital expenditure: l suspending dividend payments: and l suspending additional contributions to the UK pension plan.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 5.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT It is Group policy to depreciate its property, plant and equipment assets, except freehold land, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
This policy applies an appropriate matching of the revenue earned with the capital costs of production and delivery of goods and services.
A key element of this policy is the estimate of the useful life applied to each category of property, plant and equipment which, in turn, determines the annual depreciation charge.
Variations in asset lives could significantly impact Group profit through an increase or decrease in the depreciation charge.
5.2 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill and other capitalised intangible assets have a value that will benefit the performance of the Group over future periods.
To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least annually, of the carrying value of the Groups capitalised goodwill and other intangible assets, using discounted cash flow forecasts to derive the value in use to the Group of the capitalised assets.
In the assessment undertaken in 2009, further details of which are given in note 24, value in use was derived from discounted five-year cash flow projections, using a growth rate of 3% in the years beyond the projection period and pre-tax discount rates.
The projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the Groups businesses for this purpose.
Changes to the assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter the Directors assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets.
5.3 CURRENT ASSET RESERVES In the course of normal trading activities, and in particular in the current economic environment, judgement is used to establish the net realisable value of various elements of working capital, principally inventory and trade receivables.
Reserves are established for obsolete or slow-moving inventories, bad or doubtful debts and product warranties.
Reserve requirements are based on the facts available at the time and are also determined by using profiles, based on past practice, applied to certain aged inventory and receivables categories.
In estimating the collectability of trade receivables, judgement is required in assessing their likely realisation, including the current creditworthiness of each customer and related ageing of the past due balances.
Specific accounts are assessed in situations where a customer may not be able to meet its financial obligations due to deterioration in its financial condition, credit ratings or bankruptcy.
5.4 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Groups financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other post-retirement benefits to current and former employees.
It is the Directors responsibility to set the assumptions used in determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations.
These assumptions are set after consultation with the Groups actuaries and include those used to determine regular service costs and the financing elements related to the plans assets and liabilities.
Whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would affect the Groups profit and financial position.
5.5 TAXATION a Current tax Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group.
In assessing the amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement in considering the effect of negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the potential settlement.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to tax audit and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude.
Provision is made for known issues based upon the Directors interpretation of country-specific tax law and their assessment of the likely outcome.
78 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED 5.5 TAXATION CONTINUED b Deferred tax The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a number of the Groups businesses.
Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values at which these assets are recognised.
If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax rates or to the period over which the losses or timing differences might be recognised, then the value of deferred tax assets will need to be revised in a future period.
The Group has losses and other timing differences for which no value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements.
This situation can arise in loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of these timing differences is not probable.
It can also arise where the timing differences are of such a nature that their value is dependent on only certain types of profit being earned, such as capital profits.
If trading or other appropriate profits are earned in future in these companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced tax charge.
5.6 ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVES In certain parts of the business, mainly in the US, the Group has obligations to carry out environmental clean-ups at former and current production sites.
Many of these obligations will not arise for a number of years and the costs are difficult to predict accurately.
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate amount for the likely cost of such clean-ups.
5.7 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The Groups financial statements present the results of discontinued operations separately from continuing operations.
Discontinued operations include those businesses that have been sold, or are classified as held for sale, and which represented a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations.
The Directors exercise their judgement to determine which of the Groups businesses should have their results presented within discontinued operations.
SEGMENT INFORMATION 6.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into three main business segments: Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
The Chief Executive of each of these business segments reports to the Chief Executive of the Group and it is the Cookson Board which makes the key operating decisions in respect of these segments.
The information used by the Cookson Board to review performance and determine resource allocation between the business segments is presented with the Groups activities segmented between the three business segments, Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Taking into account not only the basis on which the Groups activities are reported to the Cookson Board, but also the nature of the products and services of the product lines within each of these segments, the production processes involved in each and the nature of their end-markets, the Directors believe that these three business segments are the appropriate way to analyse the Groups results.
The principal activities of each of these segments are described in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 23.
In addition to the Groups three business segments, corporate costs, being the costs directly related to managing the parent company, are reported separately in the reconciliation of segment result to loss profit before tax below.
Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers inter-segment revenue is not material and segment result is equivalent to trading profit prior to corporate costs.
Segment assets exclude cash and short-term deposits, employee benefits net surpluses, deferred tax assets, income tax recoverable, investments in joint ventures, assets classified as held for sale and corporate assets that cannot be allocated on a reasonable basis to a business segment.
These items are shown collectively in the following tables as unallocated assets.
Segment result and segment assets include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED 6.2 SEGMENT REVENUE AND SEGMENT RESULT Segment revenue Segment result 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Ceramics 1,130.8 1,264.3 70.9 167.7 Electronics 529.9 620.3 39.2 51.7 Precious Metals 299.9 317.9 8.9 4.5 Segment total 1,960.6 2,202.5 119.0 223.9 6.3 RECONCILIATION OF SEGMENT RESULT TO LOSS PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2009 2008 m m Segment result 119.0 223.9 Corporate costs 7.3 7.6 Trading profit 111.7 216.3 Restructuring and integration costs 75.6 39.6 Inventory fair value adjustment 2.6 Loss profit relating to non-current assets 2.8 3.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 17.6 52.5 Exceptional gains relating to employee benefits plans 9.7 6.0 Profit from operations 25.4 131.0 Finance costs ordinary activities 75.6 85.3 exceptional items 14.0 2.2 Finance income 38.6 44.5 Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.0 0.7 Net profit on disposal of continuing operations 3.7 0.9 Loss profit before tax 20.9 89.6 6.4 SEGMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURE, DEPRECIATION AND TOTAL ASSETS Capital expenditure Depreciation Total assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Ceramics 28.7 57.9 40.7 34.8 1,541.7 1,761.5 Electronics 4.8 11.7 9.3 9.3 506.8 566.9 Precious Metals 1.5 3.2 3.6 3.1 92.9 120.1 Unallocated 218.1 249.7 Discontinued operations 0.5 0.3 Total Group 35.0 72.8 53.6 47.2 2,360.0 2,698.5 80 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED 6.5 GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION External revenue Non-current assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m United Kingdom 150.2 165.2 221.3 234.8 Germany 207.5 248.9 114.1 136.8 United States of America 446.3 518.1 344.3 390.4 China 223.9 233.9 104.8 110.6 Rest of the World 932.7 1,036.4 759.7 792.1 Continuing operations 1,960.6 2,202.5 1,544.2 1,664.7 Discontinued operations 0.5 0.2 Unallocated 7.1 13.8 Total Group 1,960.6 2,202.5 1,551.8 1,678.7 External revenue disclosed in the table above is based upon the geographical location of the operation.
The Groups customers are widely dispersed around the world and no single country included within Rest of the World in the table above, for either of the years presented, amounts to more than 5% of the Groups total external revenue.
Non-current assets exclude employee benefits net surpluses and deferred tax assets.
6.6 PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS Information relating to the Groups products and services is given in the Operating Review on pages 14 to 23.
The Group is not dependent upon any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years presented in the tables above, accounts for more than 10% of the Groups total external revenue.
EXPENSES BY NATURE The following items have been charged credited in arriving at trading profit: 2009 2008 m m Cost of sales 1,442.8 1,615.3 Depreciation 53.6 47.2 Minimum lease payments under operating leases note 45 24.4 20.6 Employee benefits expense note 12.1 480.6 480.1 Auditors remuneration note 8 4.4 3.2 Foreign exchange differences 4.0 1.
AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO KPMG AUDIT PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATES 2009 2008 m m Audit of these financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.2 1.8 Other services pursuant to such legislation 0.2 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.4 0.2 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1.
RESTRUCTURING AND INTEGRATION COSTS The restructuring and integration costs of 75.6m 2008: 39.6m comprise 4.9m 2008: 17.1m of costs associated with the integration of Foseco plc Foseco into the Groups Ceramics division: 22.0m 2008: nil in respect of onerous lease costs: and 48.7m 2008: 22.5m for the cost of a number of initiatives throughout the Group aimed at reducing the Groups cost base and realigning its manufacturing capacity with its customers markets.
These latter initiatives included redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure of facilities, the streamlining of manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines.
The cost of these initiatives included 37.1m associated with the reduction of headcount throughout the Group by some 3,000 employees, representing nearly 20% of the workforce.
Of the total charge in the year, nil 2008: 8.2m related to asset write-downs.
Of the costs associated with onerous leases, 16.3m arose in the Electronics divisions UK operations.
Consequent to the restructuring of the Electronics divisions manufacturing operations in the UK, a significant amount of UK production has been transferred to other existing Electronics division facilities outside of the UK.
As a result, there is significant unutilised space at the divisions facility in Woking.
This property is subject to a lease, under the terms of which the future rentals that relate to the now unutilised part of this facility represent an onerous obligation.
Cash costs of 49.3m 2008: 23.0m were incurred in the year in respect of the restructuring and integration initiatives commenced both in 2009 and in prior years, leaving provisions made but unspent of 44.5m as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 19.5m.
The net tax credit attributable to these restructuring and integration costs was 3.7m 2008: 2.9m.
INVENTORY FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENT On the acquisition of Foseco in 2008, the value of inventory acquired was increased by 2.6m in order to restate the value of finished goods inventory from cost, as it had been valued in Fosecos balance sheet immediately prior to acquisition, to its fair value as recognised on acquisition by Cookson, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The inventory that was subject to this valuation adjustment had all been sold by 31 December 2008.
The tax credit attributable to this adjustment was 0.8m.
LOSS PROFIT RELATING TO NON-CURRENT ASSETS The net loss relating to non-current assets of 2.8m in 2009 principally comprised asset write-downs.
The net profit of 3.4m in 2008 comprised net profits of 8.4m arising on the sale of investments and surplus property, and asset write-downs of 5.0m.
The tax credit attributable to non-current assets was 1.3m 2008: 0.2m charge.
EMPLOYEES 12.1 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 411.8 412.2 Social security costs 48.9 47.5 Share-based payments note 40 1.1 2.7 Pension costs defined contribution pension plans note 39 12.7 10.
1 defined benefit pension plans note 39 10.1 3.5 Other post-retirement benefits note 39 8.0 2.0 Total employee benefits expense 476.6 478.0 Of the total employee benefits expense of 476.6m 2008: 478.0m, 480.6m 2008: 480.1m was charged in arriving at trading profit, 0.8m 2008: 0.2m was charged within restructuring and integration costs, 9.6m 2008: 6.0m was credited within exceptional gains relating to employee benefits plans, 34.2m 2008: 33.4m was charged within ordinary finance costs, and 29.4m 2008: 29.7m was credited within finance income.
82 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
EMPLOYEES CONTINUED 12.2 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2009 2008 No.
Ceramics 10,587 12,356 Electronics 2,828 3,101 Precious Metals 1,570 1,747 Total average number of employees 14,985 17,204 12.3 REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL The remuneration of the executive Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 55.
2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.2 1.0 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.3 1.3 Total remuneration of key management personnel 1.7 2.5 13.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME 13.1 TOTAL NET FINANCE COSTS 2009 2008 m m Finance costs ordinary activities 75.6 85.3 exceptional items 14.0 2.2 Finance income 38.6 44.5 Total net finance costs 51.0 43.0 13.2 ORDINARY FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME 2009 2008 m m Interest payable on borrowings Loans, overdrafts and factoring arrangements 34.6 49.0 Obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of capitalised borrowing costs 4.4 1.8 39.2 51.0 Other interest payable Interest on retirement benefit obligations 34.2 33.4 Unwinding of discounted provisions 2.2 0.9 Total ordinary finance costs 75.6 85.3 Interest receivable 8.6 14.4 Expected return on retirement benefit assets 29.4 29.7 Unwinding of discounted receivables 0.6 0.4 Total finance income 38.6 44.5 cooksongroup.
FINANCE COSTS AND FINANCE INCOME CONTINUED 13.3 EXCEPTIONAL FINANCE COSTS On 6 March 2009, the Group came to an agreement with the banks that provide its syndicated facility whereby the Group agreed to prepay, in March 2009, the 75.0m and 37.5m instalments originally due to be repaid in October 2010.
The interest payable in relation to these instalments had been hedged by means of interest rate swaps, in respect of which cash flow hedge accounting had been applied.
In April 2009, the Group converted the remainder of its foreign currency-denominated borrowings under its syndicated bank facility into sterling.
The interest payable in relation to these borrowings had also been hedged by means of interest rate swaps in respect of which cash flow hedge accounting had been applied.
Subsequent to the repayment of the instalments and the conversion of the remaining foreign currency-denominated borrowings into sterling, as outlined above, the associated hedge accounting was discontinued.
As a result, the cumulative loss of 12.8m, that had been recognised in other reserves from changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps during the period when they were effective hedges, was reclassified to the Group Income Statement as an exceptional finance cost, together with 0.5m of capitalised borrowing costs related to the prepaid instalments of the syndicated facility and 0.7m of early repayment break costs.
The exceptional charge of 2.2m in 2008, related to the write-off of costs associated with the arrangement of a tranche of the Groups syndicated facility, which was cancelled during the first half of 2008 without being utilised.
The tax associated with these exceptional finance costs was nil 2008: nil.
NET PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS The net profit on disposal of continuing operations of 3.7m 2008: 0.9m related to a number of small disposals from each of the Groups divisions, which generated 6.2m 2008: 21.2m of net proceeds.
The net profit on disposal of continuing operations of 0.9m reported for 2008 related to the sale of the Groups Hi-Tech ceramic filters business, formerly part of the Ceramics division, and to the disposal of Fosecos Carbon Bonded Ceramics business.
Both of these disposals were required for compliance with anti-trust clearances in relation to the acquisition of Foseco, together with net costs associated with a number of other small business disposals.
The tax charge associated with these disposals was 0.9m 2008: 0.3m.
INCOME TAX 15.1 INCOME TAX COSTS 2009 2008 m m Current tax UK corporation tax 9.9 7.9 Double tax relief 8.2 6.0 Overseas taxation 30.1 43.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.1 1.2 Total current tax 26.7 44.5 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 4.8 5.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.5 1.5 Total deferred tax note 27 6.3 4.3 Total income tax costs 20.4 40.2 Total income tax costs attributable to: Ordinary activities 26.3 48.3 Exceptional items 5.9 8.1 Total income tax costs 20.4 40.2 84 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
INCOME TAX CONTINUED 15.1 INCOME TAX COSTS CONTINUED The Groups total income tax cost of 20.4m 2008: 40.2m includes a credit of 5.9m 2008: 8.1m relating to exceptional items comprising a credit of 3.7m 2008: 2.9m in relation to restructuring and integration costs, a credit of nil 2008: 0.8m relating to the inventory fair value adjustment, a credit of 5.1m 2008: 3.7m relating to the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, a charge of 3.3m 2008: credit of 1.2m relating to deferred tax on goodwill, a credit of 1.3m 2008: charge of 0.2m relating to noncurrent assets and a charge of 0.9m 2008: 0.3m relating to the net profit on disposal of continuing operations.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices.
Changes in any of these areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Groups tax charge in the future.
Continuing losses, or insufficiency of taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, relative to 2009, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses.
Other significant factors affecting the tax charge are described in notes 3.11 and 5.5.
Tax credited in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year amounted to 21.8m, all of which related to actuarial losses on employee benefits plans.
Of the 20.5m charge in 2008, 19.9m related to actuarial gains on employee benefits plans and 0.6m related to exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations.
15.2 RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TAX COSTS TO LOSS PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2009 2008 m m Loss profit before tax 20.9 89.6 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 5.9 25.5 Overseas tax rate differences 5.7 1.4 Withholding taxes 2.9 2.6 Amortisation of intangibles 3.1 3.6 Impairment of intangibles 6.5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.6 2.0 Deferred tax assets not recognised 32.0 1.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.6 0.3 Total income tax costs 20.4 40.2 On 1 April 2008, the main rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 30% to 28% and remained at 28% throughout 2009.
The applicable rate of corporation tax for 2008 in the table above is calculated by pro rating the main corporation tax rate that was effective during the year.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The net post-tax loss attributable to discontinued operations of 3.4m 2008: nil related to additional costs in respect of prior years disposals.
The tax charge associated with discontinued operations was nil 2008: nil.
DIVIDENDS The dividend per ordinary share amounts in the table below have been restated by multiplying those reported previously by 10 to take account of the 10 for 1 share consolidation that took effect on 14 May 2009.
2009 2008 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of nil 2007: 13.2p per ordinary share 18.6 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of nil 2008: 8.8p per ordinary share 12.4 Total distributions to equity holders during the year 31.0 In respect of the year ended 31 December 2009, the Directors did not declare an interim dividend 2008: 8.8p per ordinary share and will not be recommending to shareholders the payment of a final dividend for 2009 2008: nil.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS 18.1 BASIC AND DILUTED EPS The EPS figures for 2008 presented in the table below have been restated by multiplying those reported previously by 10 to take account of the 10 for 1 share consolidation that took effect on 14 May 2009.
Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations 2009 operations operations 2008 pence pence pence pence pence pence Basic loss earnings per share 17.8 1.4 19.2 32.7 32.7 Diluted loss earnings per share 17.8 1.4 19.2 32.7 32.7 Headline earnings per share 18.0 18.0 88.5 88.5 Diluted headline earnings per share 18.0 18.0 88.4 88.4 18.2 EARNINGS FOR EPS 2009 2008 m m Earnings for the purposes of calculating basic and diluted EPS being net profit attributable to owners of the parent 48.5 46.1 Adjustments for: Restructuring and integration costs 75.6 39.6 Inventory fair value adjustment 2.6 Loss profit relating to non-current assets 2.8 3.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 17.6 52.5 Exceptional gains relating to employee benefits plans 9.7 6.0 Exceptional finance costs 14.0 2.2 Net profit on disposal of continuing operations 3.7 0.9 Net post-tax loss on disposal of discontinued operations 3.4 Tax relating to exceptional items 5.9 8.1 Earnings for the purposes of calculating headline and diluted headline EPS 45.6 124.6 86 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS CONTINUED 18.3 WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES The weighted average number of ordinary shares for 2008 presented in the table below has been restated by dividing the previously reported number by 10 to take account of the 10 for 1 share consolidation that took effect on 14 May 2009.
2009 2008 m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for calculating basic and headline EPS 252.8 140.8 Adjustments for dilutive weighted average number of shares relating to the Companys share schemes 0.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for calculating diluted basic and headline EPS 252.8 140.9 For the purposes of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from continuing operations.
In addition to the shares shown as being dilutive in the table above, the Company has outstanding options in relation to its share option schemes that could dilute EPS in the future, but which are not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were antidilutive in the years presented.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 2009 2008 m m Profit from operations 25.4 131.0 Adjustments for: Restructuring and integration costs 75.6 39.6 Inventory fair value adjustment 2.6 Loss profit relating to non-current assets 2.8 3.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 17.6 52.5 Exceptional gains relating to employee benefits plans 9.7 6.0 Depreciation 53.6 47.2 EBITDA 165.3 263.5 Decrease increase in inventories 91.9 20.2 Decrease in trade receivables 41.3 72.1 Increase decrease in trade payables 12.4 27.1 Decrease increase in other working capital balances 6.9 33.7 Net decrease increase in trade and other working capital 152.5 8.9 Net operating outflow related to assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 0.8 Outflow related to restructuring and integration costs 49.3 23.0 Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 8.3 25.0 Cash generated from operations 259.4 206.6 cooksongroup.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2009 2008 m m Short-term deposits 44.8 41.5 Cash at bank and in hand 115.4 74.3 Cash and short-term deposits 160.2 115.8 Bank overdrafts 2.5 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Statement of Cash Flows 157.7 105.6 21.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT Balance Balance as at Foreign as at 1 January exchange Non-cash 31 December 2009 adjustments movements Cash flow 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents Short-term deposits 41.5 1.7 5.0 44.8 Cash at bank and in hand 74.3 3.5 44.6 115.4 Bank overdrafts 10.2 0.6 7.1 2.5 56.7 Borrowings, excluding overdrafts Current 53.1 5.9 86.2 43.9 89.5 Non-current 791.4 20.7 86.2 240.2 444.3 Capitalised borrowing costs 7.2 2.5 4.7 284.1 Net debt 731.7 22.0 2.5 340.8 371.4 Net debt is a measure that shows the Groups net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the total of cash and short-term deposits and current and non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
88 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
1 446.6 Net book value as at 1 January 2008 59.4 15.2 160.5 19.6 254.7 The net book value of assets held under finance leases as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 was not material.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets that have been acquired through business combinations.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit may be impaired.
Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost, which is equal to the acquisition date fair value, and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation charges and any accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible assets are subject to impairment testing when there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been incurred.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED 23.1 MOVEMENT IN NET BOOK VALUE 2009 2008 Other Other intangible intangible Goodwill assets Total Goodwill assets Total m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 962.8 278.0 1,240.8 430.8 430.8 Exchange adjustments 54.3 5.5 59.8 202.3 20.6 222.9 Business acquisitions note 43 3.0 3.0 332.3 257.4 589.7 Business disposals note 44 2.2 2.2 2.6 2.6 As at 31 December 909.3 272.5 1,181.8 962.8 278.0 1,240.8 Amortisation and impairment As at 1 January 39.6 13.6 53.2 Exchange adjustments 3.6 0.3 3.9 0.7 0.7 Amortisation charge for the year note 23.3 17.6 17.6 12.9 12.9 Impairment loss note 24 39.6 39.6 Business disposals note 44 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 35.3 30.9 66.2 39.6 13.6 53.2 Net book value As at 31 December 874.0 241.6 1,115.6 923.2 264.4 1,187.6 23.2 ANALYSIS OF GOODWILL BY CASH-GENERATING UNIT CGU Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has four CGUs: the Ceramics division, the Chemistry product line of the Electronics division, the Assembly Materials product line of the Electronics division and the Precious Metals division.
These CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored.
For the Groups Precious Metals division CGU, after recording an impairment in 2008, goodwill recognised in the balance sheet is nil 2008: nil.
2009 2008 m m Ceramics 585.5 613.9 Chemistry 227.3 242.7 Assembly Materials 61.2 66.6 Total goodwill 874.0 923.2 23.3 AMORTISATION OF OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives as summarised below.
Fair value on Remaining Charged in acquisition useful life 2009 m years m Foseco customer relationships 103.7 18.3 6.0 trade name 72.4 18.3 3.6 intellectual property rights 80.3 8.3 8.0 256.4 17.6 90 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 24.1 IMPAIRMENT POLICY At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its tangible and other intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
The Group also carries out impairment testing of the carrying value of its CGUs annually, to assess the need for any impairment of the carrying value of goodwill, and other intangible and tangible assets associated with these CGUs.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of i its fair value less costs to sell and ii its value in use.
If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than the carrying amount of that unit, the resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The value in use calculations of the Groups CGUs are based on detailed business plans covering a three year period from the balance sheet date, higher level assumptions covering a further two year period and perpetuity calculations beyond this five year projection period.
The cash flows in the calculations are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates.
24.2 KEY ASSUMPTIONS The key assumptions used in determining value in use are return on sales, growth rates and discount rates.
Return on sales assumptions are based on historic financial information, adjusted to factor in the anticipated impact of restructuring and rationalisation plans already announced at the balance sheet date.
Growth rates are determined with reference to: current market conditions: external forecasts and historical trends for the Groups key end-markets of steel, foundry castings, automotive and electronics: and expected growth in output within the industries in which each major Group business unit operates.
A perpetuity growth rate of 3% 2008: 3% has been applied based on the long-term growth rates experienced in the Groups end-markets.
End-market conditions for the fourth quarter of 2009 were considerably better than the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first three quarters of 2009.
Further improvements in trading are expected in 2010 as end-markets recover.
Discount rates are calculated for each CGU, reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to each CGU.
The pre-tax discount rate used for the Ceramics CGU was 12.9% 2008: 13.0%, for the Chemistry CGU 13.0% 2008: 12.5% and for the Assembly Materials CGU 11.4% 2008: 11.1%.
24.3 GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2009, the Directors made use of the most recent detailed calculations of the recoverable amount of the Groups CGUs, prepared as at 31 December 2009.
Those calculations resulted in recoverable amounts that exceeded the carrying values of each of the Groups CGUs.
During the first half of 2009, the key end-markets for the Groups Chemistry CGU, which is the CGU most sensitive to risk of impairment, were weak compared to the same period in 2008, giving rise to an indication of possible impairment in the carrying value of its goodwill.
In the second half of 2009, these key end-markets evidenced recovery which had a positive impact on Chemistrys results.
As a result, in the December 2009 impairment test, the Chemistry CGUs recoverable amount exceeded its carrying value by 39m 2008: 4m.
A change in the perpetuity growth rate assumption from 3.0% to 1.0%, or an increase in the discount factor assumption from 13.0% to 14.6%, would result in its recoverable amount being equal to its carrying value.
The Groups Ceramics and Assembly Materials CGUs each had significant headroom of recoverable amount over carrying value.
INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES The principal joint venture of the Group, in which it has a 50% interest, is Electroplating Engineers of Japan Ltd.
The Groups interests in its joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
The aggregate amounts relating to these interests were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Share of current assets 37.6 36.2 Share of current liabilities 13.3 13.3 Share of non-current liabilities 0.8 0.7 As at 31 December 23.5 22.2 Share of revenue 78.3 79.2 Share of post-tax profit 1.0 0.7 26.
INVESTMENTS 2009 2008 m m Available-for-sale investments 9.8 10.2 Available-for-sale investments include 3.9m 2008: 4.4m of assets held in Rabbi Trusts and 4.1m 2008: 4.1m of listed equity securities and are accounted for in accordance with the policies in note 3.20 c. The Rabbi Trust assets are held to fund certain nonqualified US pension plan obligations and are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group Company in which they are held.
DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Other capital Operating Pension Intangible timing allowances losses costs assets differences Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2008 1.0 3.2 1.3 15.8 2.3 14.6 Exchange adjustments 0.9 0.4 0.7 12.4 1.
1 Business acquisitions note 43 1.9 0.5 1.2 75.0 3.3 78.5 Charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income note 15 19.9 19.9 Charge credit to Group Income Statement note 15 1.2 0.4 0.3 5.7 0.5 4.3 Other movements 1.2 0.2 0.8 0.6 1.3 0.1 As at 1 January 2009 6.2 3.5 16.2 98.1 2.7 119.7 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.2 0.5 3.4 0.8 4.3 Credit to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income note 15 21.8 21.8 Credit charge to Group Income Statement note 15 2.2 0.3 0.
1 2.3 1.6 6.3 As at 31 December 2009 3.6 4.0 5.0 92.4 0.3 87.3 2009 2008 m m Recognised in the Group Balance Sheet as: Non-current deferred tax assets 12.0 14.8 Non-current deferred tax liabilities 99.3 134.5 Net total deferred tax liabilities 87.3 119.7 92 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2009 was 475.6m 2008: 454.9m.
This consisted of 51.2m 2008: 52.1m relating to capital losses that are available to offset future UK capital gains and may be carried forward without time limit, 224.0m 2008: 190.6m relating to operating losses, 85.8m 2008: 104.0m relating to unrelieved interest, 101.5m 2008: 95.1m relating to other categories and 13.1m 2008: 13.1m relating to UK ACT tax credits, which may be carried forward indefinitely.
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.11, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.
In total, there was an increase of 20.7m 2008: 99.1m in net unrecognised deferred tax assets during the year.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of 228.0m 2008: 194.1m.
This total includes 84.5m 2008: 90.8m for losses which are available to offset future taxable US income, of which approximately 7.3m 2008: 8.1m will expire in 2020 and the remainder will expire between 2022 and 2029.
A further 108.2m 2008: 80.7m of losses are available to offset future UK taxable income and may be carried forward without time limit.
The remaining losses with a value of 35.3m 2008: 22.6m include 20.9m 2008: 11.2m which may be carried forward indefinitely and 14.4m 2008: 11.4m which has a maximum life of between 5 and 20 years.
The amounts arise in a number of countries and are not individually significant, reflecting the spread of the Groups operations.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group had unrelieved interest with a tax value of 85.8m 2008: 102.9m, which may be carried forward indefinitely, and US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of 10.8m 2008: 11.3m, comprising 2.7m 2008: 2.9m of research and experimentation credits, which expire between 2018 and 2029, and 8.1m 2008: 8.4m of foreign tax credits expiring between 2010 and 2018.
Due to changes in UK tax law enacted in 2009 exempting dividends received from UK tax, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is nil 2008: 200.5m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 28.1 ANALYSIS OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2009 2008 Gross Impairment Net Gross Impairment Net m m m m m m Trade receivables current 261.5 2.2 259.3 272.8 3.1 269.7 1 to 30 days past due 54.5 1.1 53.4 72.7 1.7 71.0 31 to 60 days past due 20.1 0.6 19.5 34.9 1.0 33.9 61 to 90 days past due 6.7 0.5 6.2 18.5 2.4 16.1 over 90 days past due 39.8 28.7 11.1 47.8 25.8 22.0 Trade receivables 382.6 33.1 349.5 446.7 34.0 412.7 Other receivables 29.3 36.8 Prepayments and accrued income 26.3 29.5 Total trade and other receivables 405.1 479.0 All of the Groups operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the customers with whom they do business.
Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be impaired, provision is made for the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash that will be recovered.
Impairment provisions are assessed on an individual customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances based upon historical loss experience.
Historical experience has shown that the Groups trade receivable provisions are maintained at levels that are sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED 28.2 MOVEMENTS ON IMPAIRMENT PROVISIONS 2009 2008 m m As at 1 January 34.0 18.1 Exchange adjustments 1.9 5.9 Business acquisitions 4.8 Charge for the year 14.6 8.9 Receivables written-off during the year as uncollectable 8.8 1.6 Unused amounts reversed 4.8 2.1 As at 31 December 33.1 34.0 Impairment charges, write-offs and the reversal of unused amounts shown in the table above are charged or credited as appropriate within administration, selling and distribution costs in the Group Income Statement.
In determining the level of impairment provisions required, the Groups operating companies initially review all significant trade receivable balances on an individual basis for evidence of impairment.
Evidence of impairment may include such factors as the customer being in breach of contract, or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings.
Of the total provision for impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2009 of 33.1m 2008: 34.0m shown in the table above, 29.4m 2008: 24.7m related to balances that were impaired on an individual basis.
The ageing analysis of these individually impaired balances is shown in the table below.
2009 2008 m m Ageing analysis of individually impaired trade receivable balances Current 1.5 2.2 1 to 30 days past due 0.8 1.0 31 to 60 days past due 0.4 0.6 61 to 90 days past due 0.4 2.2 Over 90 days past due 26.3 18.7 Total individually impaired trade receivable balances 29.4 24.7 Due to the large number of customers that the Group transacts its business with, none of which represent a significant proportion of the total outstanding trade receivables balance, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration of credit risk.
There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Groups trade and other receivable balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group Balance Sheet.
94 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
INVENTORIES 2009 2008 m m Raw materials 80.1 133.4 Work-in-progress 26.7 33.2 Finished goods 115.2 165.0 Total inventories 222.0 331.6 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year was 972.7m 2008: 1,107.2m.
As at 31 December 2009, in addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held 304.5m 2008: 503.5m of precious metals either on consignment terms or on behalf of customers for processing.
Cookson has entered into various precious metal consignment arrangements with precious metals consigning entities the Consignors.
The metal which the Group fabricates for its customers may be purchased by the Group from a Consignor and sold concurrently to the customer, or may be consigned and sold directly from a Consignor to the Groups customers, with the Group charging customers only for the fabrication process.
As the Consignors retain title and associated risks and rewards of ownership under these arrangements, the value of the physical metal so held is not recognised in the Group Balance Sheet.
Consequently, the obligations in respect of the consigned metal are not recognised as a liability in the Group Balance Sheet.
The utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious metals industry.
Cookson provides a guarantee in respect of each consignment arrangement.
Whilst the terms of each consignment arrangement differ in their specific terms, they share similar characteristics.
Metals are held on consignment by the relevant member of Cookson the Consignee and the Consignor retains title to the metal and has a right of physical return of the metal without penalty unless the Consignee purchases such metal at a market price for such metals plus a premium.
The Consignee pays a consignment fee on the value of the metals consigned to it which have not been returned or purchased.
Consignment fees for 2009 amounted to 8.6m 2008: 6.6m.
Consigned metals may be co-mingled with other metals.
Consignors are party to either committed or uncommitted arrangements.
Under committed arrangements the Consignors provide a fixed term commitment to supply metal to the Groups fabrication operations.
Under uncommitted arrangements the Consignor is under no obligation to supply metal to the Groups fabrication operations and has the right, with limited or, in some cases, no notice to demand physical return of its consigned metal.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 30.1 ANALYSIS OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2009 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Net investment hedges 17.3 51.1 Cash flow hedges 0.1 12.5 Fair value hedges 0.2 2.2 6.7 Total derivative financial instruments 0.2 19.6 6.7 63.6 Derivative financial instruments in the table above are reported at their fair value at the balance sheet date and comprise forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts.
They are designated as either net investment hedges, cash flow hedges or fair value hedges and are accounted for in accordance with the accounting policies in note 4.2.
None of the hedges in the table above are speculative in nature.
Of the 19.6m of derivative liabilities reported in the table above, 11.9m are due to mature within one year, 5.0m are due to mature within two years and 2.7m are due to mature within three years of the balance sheet.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 30.2 NET INVESTMENT HEDGES The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to synthetically change the currency profile of its borrowings to more closely match the currency profile of the net assets of its foreign operations.
Such contracts are designated as net investment hedges, as they mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in the value of its investment in the net assets of its foreign operations that arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
30.3 CASH FLOW HEDGES In its operations the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to provide a hedge against the cash flow risk associated with certain highly probable forecast transactions.
Such contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are used in relation to the forecast sale of goods and purchase of raw materials in order to provide a hedge against the variability in cash flows that might otherwise arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
From time to time the Group uses interest rate swaps to provide a hedge against the cash flow risk associated with interest payable on floating rate debt instruments.
These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are used to hedge against the variability in cash flows that might otherwise arise as a result of fluctuations in interest rates.
30.4 FAIR VALUE HEDGES In its operations the Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, to provide a hedge against the risk of changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies that might otherwise arise as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates.
Throughout the year, the Group has used forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the change in fair value arising as a result of the fluctuation in exchange rates of its US Private Placement Loan Notes USPP note 37.
The losses recognised on the change in fair value of these forward foreign exchange contracts in the year amounted to 24.7m, offsetting the gain on the USPP of 24.7m.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE Assets of 3.2m 2008: 0.3m, and liabilities of 1.4m 2008: nil in respect of a business in the process of being disposed of are recorded as held for sale as at 31 December 2009.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Number of shares m m As at 1 January 2008 and 1 January 2009 212.6 21.3 Shares issued in the year 2,551.3 255.1 Share consolidation 2,487.5 As at 31 December 2009 276.4 276.4 Under the terms of a fully underwritten rights issue, ordinary shareholders of the Company on the register at the close of business on 13 February 2009 were offered 2,551,293,144 new ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares for every existing ordinary share held.
These shares were fully subscribed on 4 March 2009, resulting in total proceeds on issue of 240.7m, net of expenses of 14.4m, of which 8.1m were charged against share premium account and 6.3m were charged to retained earnings.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2009, shareholders approved a share consolidation which took effect following the close of business on that same date, whereby shareholders received one new ordinary share of 100p each for every 10 existing ordinary shares of 10p each held at the close of business on 14 May 2009.
Trading in the new ordinary shares of 100p commenced on 15 May 2009.
96 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CO NSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.
SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT m As at 1 January 2008 8.0 Arising on exercise of share options 0.1 As at 1 January 2009 8.
1 Expenses associated with shares issued in the year note 32 8.1 As at 31 December 2009 34.
OTHER RESERVES Investment Hedging revaluation Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m As at 1 January 2008 0.3 6.0 5.9 0.2 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 375.4 375.4 Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 166.8 166.8 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 2.5 2.5 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments transferred to profit for the year 6.5 6.5 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 11.7 11.7 Income tax on items recognised directly in equity 0.6 0.6 As at 1 January 2009 12.0 2.0 202.1 192.1 Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 93.3 93.3 Exchange translation differences arising on net investment hedges 16.8 16.8 Change in fair value of available-for-sale investments 0.5 0.5 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 1.0 1.0 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit for the year 12.8 12.8 As at 31 December 2009 0.2 2.5 125.6 127.9 34.1 HEDGING RESERVE Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a highly probable forecast transaction note 30.3, the effective part of the gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity within the hedging reserve.
When the forecast transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the Group Income Statement in the same period.
34.2 INVESTMENT REVALUATION RESERVE Available-for-sale investments are carried in the Group Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in fair value from one balance sheet date to the next are recorded in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax.
When the investment is derecognised the cumulative amount relating to it in the investment revaluation reserve, together with any related tax, is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
34.3 TRANSLATION RESERVE The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent that arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
In addition to foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the parent, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income includes foreign exchange differences attributable to non-controlling interests note 36. cooksongroup.
RETAINED EARNINGS Share Other Total Treasury option retained retained shares reserve earnings earnings m m m m As at 1 January 2008 5.3 5.8 724.4 724.9 Profit for the year 46.1 46.1 Net actuarial gains on employee benefits plans 33.7 33.7 Recognition of share-based payments 2.9 2.9 Purchase of treasury shares 3.9 3.9 Disposal of treasury shares 6.6 6.3 0.3 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 2.3 2.3 Income tax on items recognised directly in equity 19.9 19.9 Dividends paid 31.0 31.0 As at 1 January 2009 2.6 6.4 749.3 753.1 Loss for the year 48.5 48.5 Net actuarial losses on employee benefits plans 77.3 77.3 Recognition of share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 3.2 3.2 Income tax on items recognised directly in equity 21.8 21.8 Expenses associated with shares issued in the year note 32 6.3 6.3 As at 31 December 2009 2.6 4.3 642.2 643.9 The treasury shares shown in the table above are ordinary shares of 100p each of the Company and are held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group ESOP note 15 to the Company financial statements.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS 2009 2008 m m As at 1 January 17.6 11.9 Exchange adjustments 1.2 2.4 Non-controlling interest in profit for the year 3.8 3.3 Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders 2.0 2.1 Business acquisitions note 43 2.1 As at 31 December 18.2 17.6 37.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 37.1 BORROWING FACILITIES As at 31 December 2009, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of 876.2m 2008: 1,044.1m, of which 350.0m 2008: 228.2m were undrawn.
These undrawn facilities are due to expire in October 2012.
The Groups borrowing requirements are met by US Private Placement Loan Notes USPP and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility of 674.9m 2008: 793.7m.
The USPP facility was fully drawn as at 31 December 2009 and amounted to 201.3m US$325.0m, of which US$135.0m is repayable in May 2010 and US$190.0m in May 2012.
The syndicated bank facility, which expires in 2012, comprises 324.9m of term loans and a 350.0m revolving credit facility.
The facility is repayable in two instalments: 75.0m and 37.5m in October 2011: and 500.0m and 75.0m in October 2012.
98 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.
INTERESTBEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED 37.2 ANALYSIS OF LOANS AND BORROWINGS BY REPAYMENT TERM Non-current Current Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m m m Loans and overdrafts 442.8 789.0 89.9 61.0 532.7 850.0 Obligations under finance leases 1.7 2.4 1.9 2.3 3.6 4.7 Capitalised borrowing costs 2.9 5.0 1.8 2.2 4.7 7.2 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 441.6 786.4 90.0 61.
1 531.6 847.5 Capitalised borrowing costs, which have been recognised as a reduction in borrowings in the financial statements, amounted to 4.7m as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: 7.2m, of which 0.1m 2008: 0.2m related to the USPP and 4.6m 2008: 7.0m related to the syndicated bank facility.
2009 2008 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings repayable On demand or within one year 83.6 8.1 91.7 27.4 35.9 63.3 In the second year 109.3 109.3 92.6 113.0 205.6 In the third year 117.7 217.4 335.1 111.4 111.4 In the fourth year 0.1 0.1 130.4 343.9 474.3 After five years 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Capitalised borrowing costs 0.1 4.6 4.7 0.2 7.0 7.2 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 201.2 330.4 531.6 250.2 597.3 847.5 In addition to the maturity analysis of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities shown in the table above, note 30.1 includes details of the maturity profile of the Groups derivative financial liabilities.
The Group manages the liquidity risk inherent in these liabilities by maintaining sufficient committed bank facilities to ensure that it is able to meet both its operational cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities.
These committed facilities amounted to 876.2m at 31 December 2009, of which 350.0m was unutilised.
The level of these facilities is reviewed annually, as part of the Groups three year planning process, to ensure that it continues to provide adequate operational headroom.
Where the Groups long-term cash flow forecasts indicate a need for additional finance, this is normally addressed 12 to 18 months in advance, by means of either additional committed bank facilities or raising finance in the capital markets.
37.3 PRESENT VALUE OF MINIMUM FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS 2009 2008 m m Due within one year 1.9 2.3 Due between one and five years 1.7 2.4 Total present value of minimum finance lease obligations 3.6 4.7 cooksongroup.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 38.1 CALCULATION OF FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Wherever possible, fair value is calculated by reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
Where no such quoted prices are available, other observable inputs are used and if there are no observable inputs then fair values are calculated by discounting projected cash flows at prevailing rates translated at year-end exchange rates.
38.2 FAIR VALUES RECOGNISED IN THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET The following table shows the assets and liabilities that are recognised in the Group Balance Sheet at fair value.
2009 2008 m m Assets Investments available-for-sale investments 9.8 10.2 Derivative financial assets forward foreign exchange contracts 0.2 6.7 Liabilities Derivative financial liabilities forward foreign exchange contracts 19.6 51.1 Derivative financial liabilities interest rate swap contracts 12.5 Net liabilities recognised at fair value in the Group Balance Sheet 9.6 46.7 All of the fair values shown in the table above have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets.
Of the total derivative financial liabilities of 19.6m 2008: 63.6m, 11.9m 2008: 39.3m will mature within a year of the balance sheet date and 7.7m 2008: 24.3m will mature within three years.
38.3 FAIR VALUES FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNISED AT COST IN THE GROUP BALANCE SHEET 2009 2008 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings 89.9 92.4 61.0 61.3 Long-term portion of long-term borrowings 442.8 456.1 789.0 798.1 Obligations under finance leases 3.6 3.6 4.7 4.7 Capitalised borrowing costs 4.7 7.2 Gross borrowings 531.6 552.1 847.5 864.1 Cash and short-term deposits note 20 160.2 160.2 115.8 115.8 Net debt 371.4 391.9 731.7 748.3 The difference between book value and fair value reported in the table above relates to capitalised borrowing costs and to the US Private Placement loan notes, the fair value of which has been calculated by discounting future capital and interest obligations using a discount rate equal to US Treasuries plus a spread of 210 basis points for Cookson credit.
100 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 38.4 CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE PROFILES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The currency and interest rate profiles of the Groups borrowings are set out below.
The first table shows the impact of forward foreign exchange contracts on the currency profile of the Groups gross borrowings.
The second table shows the fixed floating profile of the Groups gross borrowings and the impact that interest rate swaps have on this profile.
A 10% strengthening of sterling would result in a 2.0m decrease 2008: 18.4m increase in the fair value of this liability.
A 10% weakening of sterling would result in a 2.5m increase 2008: 22.6m decrease in the fair value of this liability.
Financial Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Notional cash and Interest fixed rate Floating short-term Fixed rate rate swaps debt rate Total deposits Net debt m m m m m m m Sterling 320.2 320.2 18.6 301.6 United States dollar 201.3 201.3 2.0 203.3 12.2 191.1 Euro 1.7 1.7 23.3 21.6 Chinese renminbi 44.3 44.3 Singapore dollar 1.0 1.0 Japanese yen 0.8 0.8 2.7 1.9 Other 5.6 5.6 58.1 52.5 As at 31 December 2009 201.3 201.3 330.3 531.6 160.2 371.4 Financial Financial liabilities gross borrowings assets Notional cash and Interest fixed rate Floating short-term Fixed rate rate swaps debt rate Total deposits Net debt m m m m m m m Sterling 75.0 75.0 205.2 280.2 13.6 266.6 United States dollar 250.4 78.9 329.3 7.7 337.0 11.5 325.5 Euro 143.7 143.7 4.3 148.0 24.5 123.5 Chinese renminbi 13.6 13.6 18.3 4.7 Singapore dollar 1.0 1.0 Japanese yen 32.5 32.5 10.4 42.9 2.3 40.6 Other 25.8 25.8 44.6 18.8 As at 31 December 2008 250.4 330.1 580.5 267.0 847.5 115.8 731.7 The financial assets shown in the tables above attract floating rate interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, less a margin.
The floating rate financial liabilities bear interest at the inter-bank offered rate of the appropriate currency, plus a margin.
The fixed rate financial liabilities of 201.3m 2008: 250.4m have a weighted average interest rate of 8.0% 2008: 7.9% and a weighted average period for which the rate is fixed of 1.5 years 2008: 2.3 years.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 38.5 MARKET RISK CURRENCY RELATED The Group is exposed to currency risk in relation to the value of its financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than sterling note 38.4, arising from fluctuations in exchange rates.
The table below shows the impact on the value of the Groups reported net financial liabilities of exchange rates either strengthening or weakening by 10% against sterling and the impact that this would have on the reported profit or loss and equity.
The Groups reported profit is not impacted by the effect of the changes in exchange rates on the value of its net financial liabilities, but equity would be 6.3m higher if sterling strengthened by 10% and 7.8m lower if sterling weakened by 10%.
Effect of sterling strengthening by 10% Effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2009 Rates Profit Rates Profit As reported 10% loss Equity -10% loss Equity Net financial assets liabilities m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 301.6 301.6 301.6 Not denominated in sterling 69.8 63.5 6.3 77.6 7.8 Total debt 371.4 365.1 6.3 379.2 7.8 Effect of sterling strengthening by 10% Effect of sterling weakening by 10% 2008 Rates Profit Rates Profit As reported 10% loss Equity -10% loss Equity Net financial assets liabilities m m m m m m m Denominated in sterling 266.6 266.6 266.6 Not denominated in sterling 465.1 422.8 42.3 516.8 51.7 Total debt 731.7 689.4 42.3 783.4 51.7 38.6 MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RELATED a Cash flow risk Changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in its future cash flows in relation to its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at floating rates note 38.4.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009, a 1% increase in market interest rates would result in an increase in both the Groups annual net finance costs charged to the Group Income Statement and the Groups net interest paid in the Group Statement of Cash Flows of 1.7m 2008: 1.5m.
Correspondingly, a 1% decrease in interest rates would result in a decrease in both the Groups annual net finance costs charged to the Group Income Statement and the Groups net interest paid in the Group Statement of Cash Flows of 1.7m 2008: 1.5m.
In January 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swaps aimed at fixing the interest rates on around two-thirds of the Groups gross borrowings for a period of just over two years.
b Fair value risk Changes in market interest rates expose the Group to the risk of fluctuation in the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities that attract interest at fixed rates note 38.4.
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2009, a 1% increase in market interest rates would result in a 3.2m decrease 2008: 5.7m in the fair value of the Groups net debt and a 1% decrease in market interest rates would result in a 3.3m increase 2008: 5.7m in the fair value of the Groups net debt.
102 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 38.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 38.7 CURRENCY EXPOSURE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated in their functional currency and which therefore give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group Income Statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency Sterling 0.3 7.4 1.0 8.1 United States dollar 0.3 2.7 3.0 Euro 1.4 1.9 0.3 3.0 Chinese renminbi 0.4 4.7 2.8 1.5 Other 1.7 2.1 2.8 4.7 7.9 As at 31 December 2009 3.5 4.6 7.7 8.7 17.5 Net unhedged monetary assets liabilities Sterling US dollar Euro Renminbi Other Total m m m m m m Functional currency Sterling 3.2 2.6 1.7 1.8 9.3 United States dollar 0.2 4.0 3.8 Euro 2.0 1.9 1.4 2.5 Chinese renminbi 0.7 3.9 4.0 1.2 2.0 Other 1.1 7.0 6.9 21.5 1.4 35.7 As at 31 December 2008 3.8 12.2 5.7 23.2 0.6 36.7 cooksongroup.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 39.1 GROUP POST-RETIREMENT PLANS The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined contribution and defined benefit type, and accounts for them in accordance with IAS 19. a Defined contribution pension plans The Groups principal defined contribution plans are in the UK and the US and the assets of the plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The total expense for these plans in the Group Income Statement amounted to 12.7m 2008: 10.1m and represents the contributions payable for the year by the Group to the plans.
b Defined benefit pension plans The Groups principal defined benefit pension plans are in the UK and the US.
The assets of these plans are held separately from the Group in trustee-administered funds.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the plans beneficiaries.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories but, with the exception of those in Germany, these are not individually material in relation to the Group as a whole.
The Groups main defined benefit pension plan in the UK the UK Plan was closed to new entrants from 2004.
A full actuarial valuation of the UK Plan is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the UK Plan Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2006.
At that date, the market value of plan assets was 278.3m and this represented a funding level of 78% of the accrued plan benefits at the time using the projected unit method of valuation of 356.6m.
Calculated on a buy-out basis using an estimation of the cost of buying out the UK Plan benefits with an insurance Company, the liabilities at that date were 475.7m, representing a funding level of 59%.
From 1 January 2008, based on the latest full valuation, the Groups ordinary contributions have been set at 16.9% of pensionable salaries.
In addition to these ordinary contributions, in 2006 the company agreed a repayment schedule with the UK Plan Trustee, which provided for additional funding payments of 26.5m per annum from 2008 to 2010, with the aim of eliminating the UK Plan deficit by 2011.
This repayment schedule was amended by the Company and the UK Plan Trustee with effect from 1 September 2008, such that the additional funding payments were reduced to 14.0m per annum over the same term as a consequence of the improved funding position of the UK Plan.
Early in 2009, a further amendment to the repayment schedule was made, details of which are given in note 39.4 c below.
The next full triennial valuation, as at 31 December 2009, is currently being prepared.
As announced on 2 March 2010, employees are being consulted regarding the proposed closure of the UK Plan to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 July 2010.
The US has a number of defined benefit plans, providing retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit.
In addition, the Groups US Retirement Security Plan has characteristics similar to defined contribution plans but with a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members accounts.
The cash balance rate assumption in the table in note 39.2 b refers to the assumed minimum guaranteed return on members accounts.
From early in 2007, the Retirement Security Plan and what were then the largest of the Groups other US defined benefit plans were closed to new members and also to future benefit accrual for existing members.
Existing plan members are, in each case, being provided with future pension benefit through a defined contribution arrangement.
Actuarial valuations of the US defined benefit pension plans are carried out every year and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2008.
At that date the market value of the plan assets was 86.5m, representing a funding level of 49% of accrued plan benefits at that date using the projected unit method of valuation of 175.4m.
Funding levels for the Groups US defined benefit pension plans are normally based upon annual valuations carried out by independent qualified actuaries and are governed by US government regulations.
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension arrangements in Germany which are unfunded, as is common practice in that country.
c Other post-retirement defined benefit plans The Groups principal defined benefit plans for employees other than pensions are healthcare benefit arrangements in the US and UK.
As is common for these types of plan, the costs of providing these benefits are not funded externally by the Group.
In December 2009, the termination of certain US retiree medical benefit arrangements was announced, which will take effect from 1 January 2011.
104 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, as detailed below, are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
a Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the Groups UK and US defined benefit pension liabilities are summarised in the table below and have been selected to reflect the characteristics and experience of the membership of those plans.
These assumptions are unchanged from those used in 2008.
For the UK Plan, the assumptions used have been derived by adjusting the standard mortality tables which reflect recent research into mortality experience in the UK.
The assumptions are based on PA 92 tables projected forward with adjustments to reflect i the lower level of life expectancy amongst the blue collar membership using an overall scaling factor of 112%, based on the results of a recent investigation carried out on the mortality experience in the UK Plan : ii the medium cohort improvement factors: and iii a minimum level, or underpin, to the amount by which life expectancy is expected to improve at each age in the future, which has the effect of increasing the life expectancy at age 65 by some 0.5 years for someone currently aged 65 and by up to 2 years for someone currently aged 45.
For the Groups US plans, the assumptions used have been based on the standard RP2000CH mortality tables, projected 64 years for non-pensioners and 33 years for pensioners using projection scale AA.
The Groups major plans in Germany have been valued using the Heubeck Richttafein 2005G mortality tables.
2009 2008 UK US Germany UK US Germany Life expectancy of pension plan members years years years years years years Age to which current pensioners are expected to live Men 86.5 84.6 84.1 86.3 84.6 84.0 Women 89.1 86.9 88.3 89.0 86.9 88.1 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live Men 88.4 86.6 86.9 88.2 86.6 85.8 Women 90.4 89.1 90.8 90.3 89.1 89.8 b Other principal actuarial valuation assumptions 2009 2008 UK US Germany UK US Germany % p. a.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION CONTINUED Discount rate The discount rate used to determine the liabilities of the UK Plan for IAS 19 accounting purposes is required to be determined by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
As described in note 39.2 c below, the UK Plan operates a hedging strategy, using a combination of swaps and money market instruments, to mitigate the impact of interest rate and inflation rate movements on the value of its projected liabilities for future pension payments the UK Plans economic liabilities, the value of which is related more to interest rate and inflation rate swap yields than to corporate bond yields.
When the relationship between the relevant swap yields and corporate bond yields is stable, the UK Plans hedging strategy should deliver a broadly stable funding ratio the ratio of plan assets to plan liabilities not just in relation to the UK Plans economic liabilities, but also under an IAS 19 basis of valuation.
However, should corporate bond yields be significantly above swap yields, as has been the case during the last two years, then the IAS 19 value of the UK Plans liabilities will be reduced to a greater extent than will the value of the actual underlying economic liabilities.
An estimated funding valuation of the UK Plans economic liabilities as at the end of 2009 showed a funding ratio of 85%, while the IAS 19 valuation showed a funding ratio of 95%.
This represents a difference of approximately 50m in the valuation of the UK Plans liabilities, of which 20m relates to the difference in the discount rates used in each valuation methodology and 30m due to the use of the Long Cohort mortality assumption for funding purposes, compared with the use of the Medium Cohort in the IAS 19 valuation.
The Company continues to fund the UK Plan with reference to its economic funding position.
The UK discount rate in the above table is based on the annualised yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated sterling corporate bond index, the US discount rate is based on the equivalent iBoxx index for US domestic corporations, and the German discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 10 year euro corporates AA index.
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
Expected asset return The expected asset return is the Companys expectation based on market yields, at the valuation date, of long-term asset returns.
The Groups major post-retirement investment portfolios are those related to its UK and US plans.
Both portfolios are invested in equities, bonds and cash.
In addition the UK Plan invests in infrastructure and absolute return funds.
The UK Plans bond exposure is held through a synthetic bond portfolio, comprising money market instruments and cash, which is designed to give broadly the same economic exposure as a portfolio of UK government bonds split 30% fixed-interest and 70% index-linked gilts.
The majority of the Groups total post-retirement assets are in synthetic bonds and equities, the assumptions as at 31 December 2009 as to the expected returns of which are explained below.
The UK Plan has also entered into some derivatives arrangements, detailed at 39.2 c below, designed to mitigate equity market, interest rate and inflation risk.
l Money market instruments and swaps The UK Plan holds synthetic bonds, being money market instruments and swaps intended to provide the same economic exposure as gilts, but typically delivering a small yield above that of gilts: for 2009 the incremental yield assumed was 0.2% per annum.
l Bonds The US plans hold a mixture of government and corporate bonds and therefore the longterm return is expected to be part-way between treasury and corporate bond yields.
l Equities The assumption for the UK Plan is that, in the long-term, equity investments are considered likely to outperform government bonds by a margin of 3.5%.
The assumption for the US plans represents an outperformance of 4.2% over long-term treasury bonds.
106 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.2 POST-RETIREMENT LIABILITY VALUATION AND RISK MITIGATION CONTINUED c UK pension plan risk mitigation strategy In 2006, the Company and the UK Plan Trustee undertook an initiative to consider how best to manage the UK Plans exposure to major investment risks.
The following were deemed to be the major investment risks which could affect the value of the UK Plans assets compared to the value of its economic liabilities: l Interest rate risk The risk of government bond interest rates falling, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
l Inflation risk The risk of inflation rising faster than expected, leading to an increase in the value of plan liabilities.
l Equity market risk The risk of significant equity market falls, leading to a fall in the value of plan assets.
In order to mitigate these key risks, the Trustee entered into the following financial derivative arrangements: l Interest rate swaps The UK Plan receives a fixed rate of interest and pays out a variable rate of interest, based on the London Inter Bank Offered Rate.
This is beneficial when long-term interest rates fall, significantly offsetting the corresponding increase in the value of the UK Plans economic liabilities.
l Inflation swaps The UK Plan pays out a fixed rate of interest of around 3% per annum and receives payments linked to actual inflation.
This is beneficial when inflation increases faster than expected and significantly offsets the corresponding increase in the value of the UK Plans economic liabilities.
l Equity derivatives Using a combination of equity derivatives, the UK Plan bought protection against the first 20% fall in equity market prices over the four year period from 1 December 2006.
To pay for this protection, the UK Plan agreed to forgo any equity market price returns above about 6.5% per annum, but continued to receive dividend payments and the benefit of any active management out-performance of its equity managers respective benchmark.
In January 2010, to ensure that the equity hedge continued to provide appropriate risk protection to the UK Plans assets, including those additional assets arising from the merger of the Foseco pension plan, the equity hedge was restructured to reflect better the current level of equity markets.
The new hedge provides downside protection against the first 15% fall in equity prices over the period from January to November 2010.
The interest rate and inflation swaps entered into are designed to mitigate interest rate and inflation risk for approximately 80% of the UK Plans liabilities.
This investment strategy has significantly reduced the risk that the value of the UK Plans assets falls materially relative to the value of its economic liabilities.
d Sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in key IAS 19 actuarial assumptions The following table analyses, for the Groups main UK, US and German pension plans, the theoretical estimated impact on plan liabilities resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions used for IAS 19 valuation purposes, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
It should be noted that the investment strategy adopted by the UK Plan, details of which are given above, was designed to mitigate a significant majority of the interest rate and inflation risk related to the UK Plans economic liabilities.
The stabilising impact of this strategy is not reflected in the following table.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.3 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Impact on plan liabilities Assumption Change in assumption UK US Germany Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.8% Decrease increase by 1.3% Decrease increase by 1.4% Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 1.6% n a Increase decrease by 0.8% Mortality Increase by one year Increase by 3.6% Increase by 3.0% Increase by 2.0% With regard to the Groups post-retirement healthcare benefit plans, a 1% increase in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions shown in the table in note 39.2 b would increase the accumulated post-employment medical benefit obligation by 0.4m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs and a 1% decrease in the healthcare cost trend rate assumptions would reduce the obligation by 0.4m without changing the post-employment medical benefit costs.
The liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans for IAS 19 accounting purposes are measured by discounting the best estimate of the future cash flows to be paid out by the plans using the projected unit method, in which the calculation of plan liabilities makes allowance for projected increases in benefit-related earnings.
108 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
1 10.1 78.9 Actuarial losses gains 12.0 14.2 1.7 3.9 12.7 25.9 2.4 15.6 Contributions from employer 4.6 10.4 5.5 20.5 29.0 5.1 7.4 41.5 Contributions from members 1.3 0.2 1.5 1.5 0.1 1.6 Benefits paid 18.1 14.7 4.2 37.0 16.4 7.1 2.3 25.8 Fair value as at 31 December 404.1 93.4 34.4 531.9 406.3 86.5 33.6 526.4 a UK Plan asset allocation As at 31 December 2009, the UK Plans assets, excluding risk-mitigation derivatives, were allocated 46% in equities of which 52% are UK and 48% overseas : 37% in money market instruments combined with interest rate and inflation swaps and bonds: 7% in infrastructure investments: and 10% in cash.
The UK Trustees target allocation currently provides for money market instruments to be 40% of the UK Plans assets and for 10% of its assets to be held in each of infrastructure investments and absolute return funds, with 40% to be held in equities.
The aim of holding infrastructure and absolute return assets is to reduce further the exposure to equity market risk and to provide an alternative source of return which is not highly correlated with equity markets.
The swaps held in combination with the money market instruments typically AAA-rated, very short-term debt provide a similar exposure to holding gilts and are in addition to the interest rate swaps, inflation swaps and equity options in place as part of the risk mitigation strategy described at 39.2 c. b US pension plan assets not recognised above In addition to the assets reported above, 3.9m 2008: 4.4m of assets were held as at 31 December 2009 to fund certain nonqualified US pension plan obligations note 26.
These assets are not included within pension plan assets as they are available to satisfy creditors in the event of the winding-up of the Group company in which they are held and are reported as investments in the Group Balance Sheet.
c Defined benefit contributions in 2010 The Group is expected to make aggregate contributions into its defined benefit pension plans of around 24m in 2010.
The Group is also expected to make aggregate contributions in respect of its other post-retirement benefit plans of around 3m in 2010.
Early in 2009, in response to the difficult market conditions faced by the Companys businesses, the Company agreed with the Trustee to change the existing schedule of additional funding payments, such that no further additional payments would be made from January 2009 until July 2010, or until such earlier time as the Company announces that it is to recommence payment of dividends to shareholders.
Upon additional payments being recommenced, these will amount to 16.3m per annum until June 2015.
However, a new triennial funding valuation is currently being prepared for the UK Plan as at the end of 2009, based upon which the Company and Trustee expect to agree a new schedule of contributions to commence in August 2010. d Actual return on plan assets The actual return on plan assets was 33.3m 2008: 14.1m.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.5 BALANCE SHEET RECOGNITION The amount recognised in the Group Balance Sheet in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans for IAS 19 accounting purposes is analysed in the following tables.
Other postretirement Defined benefit pension plans benefit 2009 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 179.4 57.6 3.8 240.8 240.8 Bonds 45.7 35.8 6.0 87.5 87.5 Money market instruments and swaps 100.6 100.6 100.6 Risk-mitigation derivatives 12.7 12.7 12.7 Other assets 65.7 24.6 90.3 90.3 Fair value of plan assets 404.1 93.4 34.4 531.9 531.9 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 425.7 135.2 45.1 606.0 606.0 21.6 41.8 10.7 74.1 74.1 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefits plans 0.7 12.3 35.3 48.3 15.3 63.6 Net liabilities recognised in the Group Balance Sheet 22.3 54.1 46.0 122.4 15.3 137.7 Other postretirement Defined benefit pension plans benefit 2008 UK US ROW Total plans Total m m m m m m Equities 142.6 35.0 3.9 181.5 181.5 Bonds 10.7 23.6 3.3 37.6 37.6 Money market instruments and swaps 133.5 133.5 133.5 Risk-mitigation derivatives 52.4 52.4 52.4 Other assets 67.1 27.9 26.4 121.4 121.4 Fair value of plan assets 406.3 86.5 33.6 526.4 526.4 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 336.9 153.5 51.2 541.6 541.6 69.4 67.0 17.6 15.2 15.2 Present value of unfunded post-retirement benefits plans 0.7 21.9 28.4 51.0 29.1 80.1 Net surpluses liabilities recognised in the Group Balance sheet 68.7 88.9 46.0 66.2 29.1 95.3 Recognised in the Group Balance Sheet as: Net surpluses 70.0 0.6 70.6 70.6 Net liabilities 1.3 89.5 46.0 136.8 29.1 165.9 Total net surpluses liabilities 68.7 88.9 46.0 66.2 29.1 95.3 110 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED 39.6 INCOME STATEMENT RECOGNITION The expense recognised in the Group Income Statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement benefit plans is shown below.
2009 2008 Other Other Defined postDefined postbenefit retirement benefit retirement pension benefit pension benefit plans plans Total plans plans Total m m m m m m Current service cost 5.6 0.5 6.1 6.9 0.7 7.6 Interest on obligation 32.9 1.3 34.2 32.
1 1.3 33.4 Expected return on plan assets 29.4 29.4 29.7 29.7 Exceptional losses gains relating to employee benefits plans 0.2 9.8 9.6 6.0 6.0 Restructuring and integration costs 0.8 0.8 0.2 0.2 Total expense 10.1 8.0 2.1 3.5 2.0 5.5 The total expense recognised in the Group Income Statement in respect of the Groups defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is recognised in the following lines: 2009 2008 m m In arriving at trading profit within other manufacturing costs 2.3 3.2 within administration, selling and distribution costs 3.9 4.4 In arriving at profit from operations within restructuring and integration costs 0.8 0.2 exceptional gains relating to employee benefits plans 9.7 6.0 In arriving at profit before tax within ordinary finance costs 34.2 33.4 within finance income 29.4 29.7 Total expense 2.1 5.5 The net exceptional gain relating to employee benefits plans of 9.7m in 2009 principally arose in relation to the reduction in the costs of providing benefits under the Groups US post-retirement medical arrangements.
The exceptional gain of 6.0m in 2008 resulted from reductions in liabilities arising from the freezing of benefits for existing members of the Groups two largest Foseco US defined benefit pension plans, together with reductions arising from business disposals and redundancy programmes.
39.7 HISTORICAL INFORMATION The history of the fair value of the plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the deficit in the plans and the experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities are shown below.
Defined benefit pension plans 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Fair value of plan assets 531.9 526.4 389.0 351.6 325.0 Present value of defined benefit obligations 654.3 592.6 463.6 483.3 517.8 Net deficit 122.4 66.2 74.6 131.7 192.8 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 3.6 5.6 0.3 23.1 6.4 Experience gains losses on plan assets 3.9 15.6 0.9 2.9 23.4 Other post-retirement benefit plans 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations net deficit 15.3 29.1 21.5 23.4 32.0 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities 0.2 1.2 0.1 2.2 0.7 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income is 88.4m 2008: 11.1m.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 40.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES The Group operates a number of different share-based payment schemes: the main features of each scheme are outlined below.
a Long-term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2004 to replace the MidTerm Incentive Plan and the executive share option schemes.
The LTIP has two elements.
Firstly, executives who are eligible receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to a prescribed percentage of their base salary Performance Shares.
Secondly, executives who are eligible can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Shares.
In addition, for awards made after 7 March 2008, the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to award participants the dividends that would have been paid on the number of shares that vest in respect of dividend record dates occurring during the period between the award date and the date of vesting.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For awards made in 2006, vesting was based upon the Groups three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2006 LTIP awards was determined as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 In 2007, the Remuneration Committee broadened the performance condition by including headline earnings per share EPS growth.
For awards made in 2007, 2008, 2009 and for future awards, vesting of 50% of shares awarded will be based on the TSR performance measure described above and 50% on headline EPS the calculation of which is shown in note 18 growth over a three-year period.
The two measures operate independently.
Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007, 2008, 2009 and future LTIP awards will be based on TSR performance in accordance with the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25:1 Upper quintile top 20% 50% 1.125:1 Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Vesting of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007, 2008, 2009 and future LTIP awards will be based on Headline EPS growth, as compared with the compound annual growth in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI, in accordance with the following schedule: Matching Shares vesting ratio Annual compound Headline EPS growth above RPI Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Investment Shares Below 3% 0% 0 3% 12.5% 0.25:1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125:1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 An executives Matching Shares award will only vest if the Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The fair value of awards granted under the LTIP is measured using a stochastic pricing model.
112 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 40.1 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT SCHEMES CONTINUED b Mid-term incentive plan MTIP Under the MTIP, executives were eligible to receive a bonus, paid partly in cash and partly in ordinary shares of the Company, the beneficial receipt of which was deferred for two years from the date of the award restricted shares, based upon the achievement of target financial performance measured over a three-year period.
Performance targets based on either the Groups cumulative profit or cumulative profit and cash flow performance were set by the Remuneration Committee for each three-year MTIP period.
The MTIP operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
The fair value of awards granted under the MTIP was measured using a BlackScholes pricing model.
c Executive option schemes ESOS The last executive share option grant was made in 2003.
Under these schemes, share options were granted at the market price prevailing at the time of grant.
Options normally only became exercisable if the growth in Headline EPS was at least equal to the increase in the RPI plus 3% per annum 2% per annum for options granted in 1995 and 1996 for a consecutive three-year period.
The fair value of awards granted under the ESOS was measured using a stochastic pricing model.
d UK and international Sharesave schemes SAYE schemes The last grant under the SAYE schemes was made in 2004.
Under the SAYE schemes, employees had the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Group at a discounted price of up to 20% by using their savings together with an additional tax-free bonus at the end of their saving period.
The schemes operated in conjunction with a three or five-year savings contract and options were granted at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.
Employees who entered into these contracts had to make monthly savings of between 5 and 250.
The fair value of awards granted under the SAYE schemes was measured using a BlackScholes pricing model.
e Deferred Bonus Plan DBP In 2007, the Company implemented a new DBP in place of the LTIP for certain corporate managers.
Under this plan, executives receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares vest after three years, although an executives allocation may lapse if their employment ceases in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
The fair value of awards granted under the DBP scheme is measured using a BlackScholes pricing model.
f Stock Appreciation Rights SAR Due to the disadvantageous tax regime in Belgium, Belgian participants in the ESOS and SAYE schemes received SAR instead of share options.
These SAR were awarded under exactly the same rights and conditions as the share options, except that individuals received, in cash, the difference between the subscription price and market price of Cookson Group plc shares on the date of exercise, rather than having the right to purchase shares.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 40.2 DETAILS OF OUTSTANDING OPTIONS The Company has followed the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 and applied it to those options that were granted after 7 November 2002 and which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The following disclosures are only in respect of those options that fall within the scope of IFRS 2.
The exercise prices shown in the following tables are the weighted average exercise prices.
The number of options and the associated share prices in the tables below have been restated to reflect the bonus element of the shares issued under the terms of the rights issue which completed on 4 March 2009 and the 10 for 1 share consolidation completed on 14 May 2009.
Awards Outstanding awards exercisable Earliest Latest As at As at as at year in year in Range of 1 January Forfeited 31 December 31 December which which exercise 2009 Granted Exercised lapsed 2009 2009 awards awards prices No.
The average share price during 2009 was 292p 2008: 773p.
Awards Outstanding awards exercisable Earliest Latest As at As at as at year in year in Range of 1 January Forfeited 31 December 31 December which which exercise 2008 Granted Exercised lapsed 2008 2008 awards awards prices No.
SHAREBASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED 40.3 OPTIONS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR 2009 2008 LTIP LTIP EPS TSR EPS TSR DBP element element DBP element element Fair value of options granted per share 175p 175p 84p 1,000p 1,000p 539p Share price on date of grant per share 175p 175p 175p 1,000p 1,000p 1,000p Expected volatility n a n a 39.7% n a n a 32.5% Risk-free interest rate n a n a 1.7% n a n a 3.9% Exercise price per share nil nil nil nil nil nil Expected term years 3 3 3 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield n a n a n a n a n a n a Share price volatility for options granted in 2009 and 2008 is based upon weekly movements in the Companys share price over a period prior to the grant date that is equal in length to the expected term of the award.
40.4 INCOME STATEMENT RECOGNITION The total expense recognised in the Group Income Statement is shown below.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2009 2008 m m Non-current Accruals and other payables 25.3 23.3 Deferred purchase consideration 1.9 0.4 Total non-current payables 27.2 23.7 Current Trade payables 191.0 188.8 Other taxes and social security 35.1 35.4 Accruals and other payables 110.5 120.0 Deferred purchase consideration 0.9 0.4 Total current payables 337.5 344.6 There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Groups trade and other payables balances and the amount at which they are reported in the Group Balance Sheet.
PROVISIONS Restructuring Disposal and and closure integration costs costs Other Total m m m m As at 1 January 2009 40.0 19.5 7.7 67.2 Exchange adjustments 4.0 0.9 0.5 5.4 Charged to Group Income Statement 3.9 74.8 9.1 87.8 Unwind of discount 1.1 1.1 2.2 Cash spend 6.8 49.3 2.2 58.3 Reclassifications transfers 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 2009 34.9 44.5 14.1 93.5 2009 2008 m m Recognised in the Group Balance Sheet as: Non-current provisions 56.6 37.7 Current provisions 36.9 29.5 Total provisions 93.5 67.2 The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors current best estimate of the costs to be incurred both in the fulfilment of obligations undertaken in connection with former Group businesses, resulting from either disposal or closure, together with those related to the demolition and clean-up of closed sites.
The provision comprises amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims, including claims relating to product liability.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
The provision for restructuring and integration costs is used to manage the costs of all of the Groups initiatives to rationalise its operating activities.
The balance of 44.5m as at 31 December 2009 relates to future expenditure on restructuring initiatives, the majority of which commenced in 2009.
Other provisions comprise amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims.
As the settlement of many of the obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the next five years and the underlying estimates of costs are regularly updated to reflect changed circumstances with regard to individual matters.
Where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the Group Balance Sheet only when its realisation is virtually certain.
As at 31 December 2009, 10.1m 2008: 11.9m was recorded in receivables in respect of associated insurance reimbursements, of which 7.5m 2008: 9.1m is non-current.
The amounts reported in the table above as charged to the Group Income Statement represent only that part of the total income statement charge reported as a movement on provisions.
Other components of the charge, such as asset write-offs, are reported as a reduction in the carrying value of the relevant balance sheet item.
116 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED During 2009, the Group acquired interests in subsidiaries and joint ventures for a total consideration of 8.2m, of which 5.9m was paid in cash and 2.3m was deferred, subject to future earnout arrangements.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 0.5m of which 0.3m was cash and 4.7m was invested in joint ventures.
Goodwill arising on these acquisitions amounted to 3.0m note 23.1.
The 5.9m disclosed in the Group Statement of Cash Flows in respect of the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired, comprised 5.9m paid for current year acquisitions, 0.3m of deferred consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions, less 0.3m of cash acquired with current year acquisitions.
In February 2008, as an initial stage in its acquisition of Foseco, the Company completed the purchase of 20% of the issued share capital of Foseco India Ltd. at a cash cost of 6.9m, with directly attributable acquisition costs of 0.4m.
On 4 April 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of Foseco at an agreed price of 295p per Foseco share, valuing Fosecos equity at 496.7m.
In addition to the cash cost of the shares, directly attributable acquisition costs amounted to 10.0m and net debt assumed on acquisition was 105.9m.
In addition to the acquisition of Foseco, in September 2008 the Group made two further acquisitions for a combined cost of 10.7m, satisfied in cash.
The fair value of the assets acquired in these transactions was 1.7m resulting in the recognition of 9.0m of goodwill.
ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH ACQUIRED CONTINUED In 2008, acquisitions had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities: Other Total Acquisition of Foseco acquisitions Group Preacquisition Recognised Recognised Recognised carrying Fair value values on values on values on amounts adjustments acquisition acquisition acquisition m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 87.2 1.6 85.6 0.9 86.5 Intangible assets 24.0 232.4 256.4 1.0 257.4 Employee benefits net surpluses 2.4 2.4 2.4 Deferred tax assets 1.5 0.5 2.0 2.0 Cash and short-term deposits 20.5 20.5 0.4 20.9 Inventories 46.9 1.4 45.5 0.4 45.9 Trade and other receivables 104.7 0.7 104.0 1.5 105.5 Assets classified as held for sale 8.0 8.0 8.0 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 126.4 126.4 1.7 128.1 Employee benefits net liabilities 31.8 31.8 31.8 Deferred tax liabilities 3.6 76.9 80.5 80.5 Provisions 2.4 2.4 2.4 Trade and other payables 71.6 3.2 74.8 0.8 75.6 Income tax payable 15.7 15.7 15.7 Non-controlling interests 3.5 1.4 2.1 2.1 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 32.2 158.5 190.7 1.7 192.4 Goodwill on acquisition 323.3 9.0 332.3 Consideration 514.0 10.7 524.7 Consideration comprised Cash 503.6 10.4 514.0 Directly attributable acquisition costs 10.4 0.3 10.7 Total consideration 514.0 10.7 524.7 Recognition in the Group Statement of Cash Flows Cash paid for shares 503.6 10.4 514.0 acquisition costs 10.4 0.3 10.7 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 20.5 0.4 20.9 Total impact of acquisitions on Group cash flows 493.5 10.3 503.8 Less: reported in 2007 1.6 1.6 Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures 491.9 10.3 502.2 The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Foseco in 2008 of 323.3m principally relates to the value of the anticipated synergies to be realised from the acquisition, together with the value of Fosecos assembled workforce.
In respect of the other acquisitions in 2008, no significant fair value adjustments were made in arriving at the recognised values on acquisition and the goodwill of 9.0m principally relates to the value of the anticipated synergies to be realised from the acquisition.
118 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES, NET OF CASH DISPOSED OF 2009 2008 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Net consideration Net proceeds received 6.2 6.2 21.2 21.2 Proceeds receivable 0.9 0.9 Provision for future disposal costs 3.4 3.4 3.6 3.6 Total net consideration 7.1 3.4 3.7 17.6 17.6 Assets and liabilities disposed of Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 4.3 4.3 Attributable goodwill note 23.1 1.5 1.5 2.6 2.6 Trade working capital 1.3 1.3 1.8 1.8 Assets previously classified as held for sale 0.3 0.3 8.0 8.0 Net assets disposed of 3.4 3.4 16.7 16.7 Profit loss on disposal of operations 3.7 3.4 0.3 0.9 0.9 Net cash received from disposals Net proceeds received for current year disposals 6.2 6.2 21.2 21.2 Net costs paid proceeds received for prior years disposals 0.8 4.5 5.3 1.6 4.5 2.9 Net cash inflow outflow from disposals 5.4 4.5 0.9 22.8 4.5 18.3 Recognition in the Group Statement of Cash Flows Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures 6.2 6.2 21.2 21.2 Within other investing outflows, including additional costs for prior years disposals 0.8 4.5 5.3 1.6 4.5 2.9 Net cash inflow outflow from disposals 5.4 4.5 0.9 22.8 4.5 18.3 No cash or cash equivalents were disposed of in the year 2008: nil.
COMMITMENTS 2009 2008 m m Capital commitments Contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2.4 12.9 Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: Not later than one year 17.6 18.7 Later than one year and not later than five years 40.8 43.5 Later than five years 63.7 66.8 Total operating lease commitments 122.1 129.0 The Groups property, plant and equipment assets are either purchased outright or held under lease contracts.
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 3.19, where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group, the asset is capitalised in the Group Balance Sheet and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance lease obligation.
Where all the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group, the lease is classified as an operating lease and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised in the Group Balance Sheet.
As disclosed in the table above, as at 31 December 2009 the Group was committed to making 122.1m 2008: 129.0m of future payments in respect of assets held under non-cancellable operating leases.
The cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged within trading profit, amounted to 24.4m 2008: 20.6m.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course of business do not get reported in the Group Balance Sheet.
Of such arrangements, those considered material by the Directors include: inventory held under precious metal consignment arrangements note 29 : future lease payments in relation to assets used by the Group under noncancellable operating leases note 45 : and trade receivable balances that have been subject to non-recourse factoring arrangements.
Under its non-recourse factoring arrangements, the Group sells trade receivables balances to a third-party factoring company in exchange for a cash payment from the factoring company, net of fees.
All the risks and rewards of the trade receivables subject to these arrangements are transferred to the factoring company and, accordingly, the trade receivables are derecognised in the Group Balance Sheet.
Such arrangements are used from time to time by the Group to manage the recovery of cash from its trade receivables.
As at 31 December 2009, the Group Balance Sheet included 34.2m 31 December 2008: 38.1m of cash that would otherwise have been reported as trade receivables if these arrangements were not in place.
Factoring fees incurred during the year ended 31 December 2009, which are written off to the Group Income Statement within ordinary finance costs, amounted to 1.4m 2008: 1.5m.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees given by the Group under property leases of discontinued operations amounted to 3.9m 2008: 4.3m.
Details of guarantees given by the Company, on behalf of the Group, are given in note 19 to the Company financial statements.
The Group has extensive international operations and several companies within the Group are parties to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the Group Company involved.
While the outcome of litigation can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
Legal claims have been brought against Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials.
Two of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to lawsuits in the US relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
To date, there have been no liability verdicts against either of these subsidiaries.
A number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled, and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES Details of the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Cookson Group plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are given in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
RELATED PARTIES All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arms length basis and in accordance with normal business terms.
Transactions between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
During the year, Group subsidiaries made sales of products and services to Group joint venture companies of 1.1m 2008: 1.5m and made purchases of goods and services from Group joint venture companies of 12.3m 2008: 1.8m.
As at 31 December 2009, amounts owed by the Groups joint ventures to Group subsidiaries was nil 2008: nil and amounts owed to Group joint ventures by Group subsidiaries was nil 2008: nil.
Details of related party information in relation to key management personnel are given in note 12.3.
