Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 49 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 65 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11.00am on 9 February 2010, at the Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN, to transact the following business: Ordinary Business 1.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2009.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009, together with the reports of the Directors and the Auditor.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 14.0p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2009.
To re-elect Ms A M Frew, who retires by rotation.
To re-elect Mr D R Hummel, who retires by rotation.
To re-elect Mr M W Peacock, who retires by rotation.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: 8.
That the Board be and hereby is authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company: a up to a nominal amount of 277,321 and, b up to a nominal amount of 277,321 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and, ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Such authorities to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 9 May 2011 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as special resolutions: 9.
That, conditional upon resolution 8 being passed, the Board be and hereby is given power to allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the Companies Act 2006, free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B of resolution 8, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and, ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter and, b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 8 and or in the case of any transfer of treasury shares which is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 41,598.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 9 May 2011 but during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 50 66 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meetingcontinued 10.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum number of 8,319,636 Ordinary Shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out and, c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 9 May 2011 but so that the Company may enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not ended.
That: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and, b the Articles of Association produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board G M Hulme Company Secretary 7 December 2009 Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 51 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 67 Notes: 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Annual Report.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, not less than 48 hours before the start of the AGM or any adjournment thereof.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 9 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on 7 February 2010 or, in the event of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
As at 4 December 2009 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 83,196,361 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 4 December 2009 are 83,196,361.
There are no shares in treasury.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on 7 February 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 52 68 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meetingcontinued 12.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the Meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 29 December 2009, being the date 6 clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the time of the AGM and at the Meeting location from 15 minutes before the Meeting until it ends: the executive Directors service contracts: letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: deeds of indemnity in favour of the Directors and, a copy of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company, and a copy of the existing Memorandum and Articles of Association marked to show the changes being proposed in resolution 11.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 53 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69 EXPLANATORY NOTES Ordinary Business Resolution 1 Approval of the Report on Directors Remuneration This resolution is proposed to approve the Report on Directors Remuneration as set out on pages 23 to 28.
Resolution 2 Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are under a duty in relation to each financial year to lay the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and Auditor before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
Resolution 3 Declaration of dividend A final dividend of 14.0p per ordinary share payable on 26 February 2010 has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2009.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
Resolutions 4, 5, and 6 Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Articles of Association Ms A M Frew, Mr D R Hummel and Mr M W Peacock will retire by rotation as Directors and will seek re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Biographical details of Directors seeking re-election are set out on page 16.
With regard to the non-executive Director seeking re-election, the Board considers that Anita Frew has added breadth and perspective to the Boards deliberations.
Specifically, she has been a nonexecutive Director since August 2000 and Chairman of the Board of Victrex plc since October 2008 and has made a significant contribution to the Group bringing a wide range of experience, particularly with regard to international marketing, corporate development and the City.
Resolution 7 Re-appointment of auditor auditors remuneration This resolution proposes the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and authorises the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special Business Resolution 8 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of next years AGM of the Company or 9 May 2011, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to an amount equal to less than one third of the existing share capital, plus in the case of a rights issue only a further amount up to an additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 9 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
This resolution will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash up to a nominal amount of 41,598, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, other than to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, in compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the Company or 9 May 2011, if sooner.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 54 70 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meetingcontinued Resolution 10 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 10 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase will be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, re-sold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 4 December 2009, options over a total of 2,128,006 ordinary shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of ordinary shares represents 2.56% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 4 December 2009.
It would represent 2.84% of the issued ordinary share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full at that date.
Resolution 11 Adoption of new Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 11 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the following Appendix.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or the Shareholders Rights Regulations, or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills have not been noted in the Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted above.
Resolution 12 Notice of general meetings Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 12 seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in this Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of shares in the Company.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 55 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting Explanatory notes of principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
The Companys objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys Articles of Association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 11a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Redeemable shares Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Use of seals Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one Director in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a Director and the secretary or two Directors or such other person or persons as the Directors may approve.
Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 56 72 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meetingcontinued Explanatory notes of principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association 8.
Vacation of office by Directors The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a Director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to treat physical illness in the same manner as mental illness.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing with proxy voting on the basis that these are dealt with in the Companies Act 2006 and contain a provision clarifying how the provision of the Companies Act 2006 giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary authorities.
Voting by corporate representatives The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing with voting by corporate representatives on the basis that they are dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans casting vote The New Articles remove the provision giving the Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The Current Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73 Financial Calendar and Advisors Annual General Meeting 9 February 2010 Ex dividend date 10 February 2010 Record date 12 February 2010 Payment of dividend 26 February 2010 Announcement of 2010 interim results May 2010 Payment of interim dividend July 2010 The date by which shareholders must be recorded on the share register to receive the dividend.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc St James Square Manchester M2 6DS Broker and Financial Advisor J P Morgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate London EC2V 6DR Lawyers Slaughter and May Addleshaw Goddard LLP One Bunhill Row 100 Barbirolli Square London Manchester EC1Y 8YY M2 3AB Bankers HSBC Bank plc Barclays Bank plc 4 Hardman Square 1 Marsden Street Spinningfields Manchester Manchester M2 1HW M3 3EB Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6ZX Victrex plc Registered in England Number 2793780 Registered Office: Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
com Victrex plc Victrex Technology Centre, Hillhouse International, Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, FY5 4QD, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1253 897700 Fax: 44 0 1253 897701 Web: www.
