124 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Other information Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries Website The Companys registrars are: The Companys website, www.
co. uk, provides information including: Computershare Investor Services PLC news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements: The Pavilions Bridgwater Road investor information, including the full annual report, investor presentations and Bristol, BS99 6ZZ share price information: Website: www.
co. uk contactus details of the 2010 annual general meeting, including the notice of the annual Telephone: 0870 707 1402 general meeting: biographies of the members of the Board and the Group Executive: and Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend payments, change of address, loss of share certificate, etc.
should be addressed to Computershare.
further information on the Companys corporate governance policies and corporate responsibility.
Investor Centre Share dealing services Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website provided by our registrars.
This service allows you to view your share portfolio and see the latest Computershare provide Weir Group shareholders with a quick and easy way to market price of your shares, check your dividend payment and tax information, buy or sell Weir Group shares on the London Stock Exchange.
change your address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online.
To take advantage of this service, please log in at Internet share dealing commission is 0.5%, subject to a minimum charge of 15. www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Reference Number SRN In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
There is no and Company Code.
This information can be found on your share certificate need to open an account in order to deal.
Real time dealing is available during or tax dividend voucher.
In addition, there is a convenient facility to place your order outside of market hours.
Up to 90 day limit orders are available for sales.
To access the service, log on to www-uk.
Dividends payment direct to banks asp.
Shareholders should have their SRN available.
The SRN appears on Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society account using share certificates and tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACSTEL-IP.
This means that your for purchases.
Please note that, at present, this service is only available to dividend will be in your account on the same day the Company makes the shareholders in certain European jurisdictions.
Please refer to the website payment.
Your tax voucher will be posted directly to your own address or, if you for an up-to-date list of these countries.
have elected to receive e-mail notifications, you will be sent an e-mail advising you Telephone share dealing commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of that your tax voucher is available at www.
In addition, stamp duty, currently 0.5%, is payable on purchases.
You can dividends to be paid directly into your bank account, you should apply online at contact Computershare on 0870 703 0084.
Shareholders should have their www.
co. uk or contact our registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form.
SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on share certificates and The Company encourages you to have your dividends paid direct to a bank tax dividend vouchers.
A bank debit card will be required for purchases.
terms and conditions are available on request by telephoning 0870 707 1402.
Please note this service is, at present, only available to shareholders resident Capital gains tax in the UK and Ireland.
For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share of These services are offered on an execution only basis and subject to the The Weir Group PLC as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
This market value has applicable terms and conditions.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is been adjusted to take account of the sub-division of the share capital whereby each authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
ordinary share of 25p was sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p each on 28 June 1993.
Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p This is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in The Weir Group PLC.
per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven ordinary shares Shareholders who are unsure of what action to take should obtain independent held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for financial advice.
Share values may go down as well as up which may result in a every five ordinary shares held and in September 1994 at 252p per share on the shareholder receiving less than he she originally invested.
basis of one new ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
Voting Shareholder communications Information on how you can vote electronically can be obtained through our Following a change to company law, and subsequent shareholder approval at registrars by visiting www.
the 2007 annual general meeting, shareholder documents are only sent in paper format to shareholders who have elected to receive documents in this way.
This approach enables the Company to reduce printing and distribution costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have not elected to receive paper copies are sent a notification whenever shareholder documents are published to advise them how to access the documents via the Group website at www.
Shareholders may also choose to receive this notification via email with a link to the relevant page on the website.
Shareholders who wish to receive email notification should register online at www.
co. uk using your Shareholder Reference Number, which is given on your share certificate or tax dividend voucher.
This service is provided in conjunction with our registrars, Computershare.
Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Market overview Market overview Market overview The Weir Group PLC Financial The global economic downturn and The North American upstream market The original equipment power market associated decline in commodity prices experienced reduced activity with lower continued to be buoyant in Asia, but Operational excellence This map is illustrative, but not fully definitive of our locations.
resulted in difficult market conditions demand for natural gas.
At the mid-year, depressed elsewhere.
The strong Asian Calendar in 2009.
While commodity production rig count had reduced by around 50% market has been driven by Chinas volumes were lower early in the year before starting to recover in the second nuclear new build.
New coal and nuclear there was notable improvement in the half.
Significant downstream project plant delays in Europe and North America second half supported by investment in opportunities were driven principally by have resulted in increased potential for Asian infrastructure.
service and life extension projects.
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 5 May 2010 Record date for final dividend 7 May 2010 Weir Minerals is the global leader in the Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufactures Weir Power & Industrial designs, Shareholders on the register at this provision of slurry handling equipment pumps and ancillary equipment for manufactures and provides aftermarket date will receive the dividend and associated spare parts for abrasive global upstream and downstream oil and support for specialist and critical-service high wear applications used in mining gas markets and provides substantial rotating and flow control equipment, in as well as in the niche oil sands and flue aftermarket service and support activities.
the main, to the global power sector.
Products Upstream operations specialise in highThe division includes valve operations, a Annual general meeting include pumps, hydro cyclones, valves, pressure well service pumps and related specialist pump business and substantial 12 May 2010 fide-watering equipment and wear flow control equipment along with repairs, service and aftermarket operations and resistant linings.
Investment in materials, parts and service of pressure control and is one of only a few businesses globally technology and engineered hydraulics rotating equipment.
Downstream focuses capable of providing specialist valves into Final dividend paid ensure world class performance.
The on design and manufacture of centrifugal the nuclear islands of third generation 3 June 2010 division is present in key mining markets, pumps, mainly for the refining industry.
Facilities are including South and North America, Principal operations are in North America, located in Europe, North America, China, Australia and Africa.
Europe and the Middle East.
Middle East, India and South Africa.
Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures The Weir Group is well established in all three of our 2009 revenue by division No.
of people c1,900 chosen markets: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power.
of businesses 9 Minerals 2009 order input 718m 2009 order input 305m 2009 order input 266m 59% 2009, the Group has been focused on worldwide operational Addressable market 2.7bn Addressable market 1.6bn Addressable power market 2.3bn Oil & Gas excellence, which has enabled us to manage through the 22% Power & Industrial downturn and to help our customers do likewise.
Operational 17% Other Major customers Major customers Major customers excellence will continue to underpin our strategy for growth 2% Anglo American BJ Services British Columbia Hydro & Power Authority going forward.
BHP Billiton BP CNPEC & CNEIC, China Newmont Cal Frac Department of National Defence, Canada Customer focus is a precondition for sustainable growth.
Going forward, we Rio Tinto Halliburton EADS Eurocopter France will be prioritising customer focus and customer relationships through our three Shell Linde Impianti Italia EDF principal drivers of growth.
Innovative action to develop our product portfolio cautionary statement Siemens Corporation Neste Oil Iberdrola will be targeted at meeting specific customer needs.
A collaborative mindset This annual report contains forward-looking Syncrude Canada Schlumberger LISCO Iron & Steel Company statements with respect to the financial will allow us to work together across the Group and in partnership with our Vale Inco Superior Well Services Loftyman Engineering condition, operations and performance of customers.
Through our global capability, we will use our geographic footprint Vendanta Group Trican Oilwell Services Scottish & Southern Energy the Group.
By their nature, these statements to best advantage to ensure we get closer to existing and new customers.
Xstrata Weatherford Tennessee Valley Authority involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from Designed by Design Motive those anticipated.
The forward-looking Printed by Royle Print statements reflect knowledge and information It is important that our annual report is produced in an environmentally available at the date of preparation of this responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The annual report is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing company, annual report and the Company undertakes using vegetable-based inks.
no obligation to update these forward-looking The material is Revive Pure Uncoated which is certified as 100% recycled by statements.
Nothing in this annual report the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both should be construed as a profit forecast.
have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
Registered office & company number Valves and slurry pumps Weir Gabbioneta process pumps Weirs excellent technical service With an extensive, successful On site at Weir Minerals Chile, Reducing component travel Part of Minerals fide-watering range, Power & Industrials service Clydesdale Bank Exchange feature in Goldcorps Mexican destined for Russias Tartarstan helped Peak Golds New South track record of hydro work in the who were recently awarded a distance by 94% and set up the patented GEHO APEXS skills have seen them extend 20 Waterloo Street Penasquito project which will be region which is expected to refine Wales mine increase throughput UK, our power business is seeing new maintenance contract with times by 42% gave Weir SPM power saving pump moves large their geographic reach with Glasgow G2 6DB the worlds largest gold and silver up to seven million metric tons of and reduce costs with a mill liner similar ongoing demand for Minera Escondida, the worlds the operational edge to win volumes of abrasive, corrosive a multi-million dollar contract Scotland mill in the northern hemisphere.
the Groups manufacturing slurries at high pressures.
on a natural gas platform in Registered in Scotland excellence award.
Company Number 2934 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 The Weir Group PLC Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report The Weir Way The drivers of growth The Weir Group has a clearly defined strategy to Contents build market presence and deliver outstanding Directors report products and services from a platform of operational Inside front cover excellence and customer focus.
This is supported by Financial highlights 1 our continuing commitment to operating disciplines Chairmans statement 2 throughout the business and to the development Chief Executives review 4 of our people.
Driving growth The Weir Way 8 Key Performance Indicators 14 Operational review 15 Financial review 24 InnovatIve Board of directors 28 1 actIon Principal risks & uncertainties 30 Our strategy prioritises customer-driven product and service Corporate governance report 33 innovation through investment in engineering skills and people Remuneration report 40 development to accelerate the adoption of new approaches Corporate responsibility report 47 and business solutions.
This creative focus on portfolio Other statutory information 54 development delivers enhanced and extended product capability to give existing and new customers a competitive Financial statements and other information advantage.
Independent auditors report 57 Consolidated income statement 58 Consolidated statement of collaboratIve comprehensive income 59 2 MIndset Consolidated balance sheet 60 We will drive co-operative alliances and cross-divisional Consolidated cash flow statement 61 working to promote our total capability to customers in all Consolidated statement markets.
We achieve more when we empower our people of changes in equity 62 to collaborate with our customers and with each other across Notes to the Group divisions, markets and geographical regions in a shared financial statements 63 approach to solving problems.
Independent auditors report 110 Company balance sheet 111 Notes to the Company financial statements 112 Principal companies of Global the Group 123 The Weir Group PLC 3 caPabIlItY Shareholder information 124 Clydesdale Bank Exchange 20 Waterloo Street Inside back cover Financial calendar Our strategy is to continue to build global capability, to expand Excellent and Cautionary statement Glasgow G2 6DB, Scotland in emerging markets and serve customers globally.
This Engineering means working alongside our customers in the territories that Solutions Telephone: 44 0 141 637 7111 Front cover: Representing the Weir team: drive demand in minerals, oil and gas and power generation, Facsimile: 44 0 141 221 9789 George H. Finn and Robert Close both channelling more products and services through our existing USA, Basli Sathi Australia, Antonella Email: investor-relations@weir.
co. uk and expanding organisation to strengthen local relationships.
Campolo Italy, Anton Amperman Website: www.
co. uk Australia and Valentina Bortoluzzi Italy
