GLOSSARY Continuous Improvement Programme Wellstreams ISO 9001 A global certification administered by the programme to improve efficiency and production at its International Organisation for Standardisation confirming manufacturing facilities.
efficient and effective production processes.
Deepwater Water depths greater than 500 metres.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation nKm A normalised Km is based on the work centre hours and amortisation.
required to produce a standard eight inch ID offshore pipe.
A relative time factor is applied to other pipes, where E&P Exploration and production.
applicable, to convert actual production lengths and EPCI Engineering, Procurement, Construction, composition into normalised Km.
OHSAS 18001 An international occupational health and Flexbarrier Polymer fluid barrier layer of flexible safety management system specification.
Reels Devices around which lengthy continuous items Flowlines Static pipelines used to carry fluids on the such as cables or flexible pipes are wrapped for transportation seabed.
Fluid transfer lines Large diameter dynamic pipelines Revenue Backlog Is the aggregate of revenue that has often hanging in a large U bend in the water column not been recognised in the accounts from contracts that connecting to two structures which are often dynamic.
have been entered into and from contracts that the directors are confident will be entered into and revenue that the FPSO Floating Production, Storage and Offloading: a directors are confident will arise in the next year from the converted or custom-built shipshaped floater, employed Petrobras Framework Agreement.
Further revenue from the to process oil and gas for temporary storage of oil prior Framework Agreement and orders from customers in the to transhipment.
form of limited or non-binding commitments are not HSE Health, Safety and Environment.
QHSE Quality, Health, Safety and Environment.
Riser A pipe or assembly of pipes used to transfer produced fluids from the seabed to the surface facilities or ID Internal diameter.
to transfer injection fluids, control fluids or lift gas from the ISO 14001 A global certification administered by surface facilities and the seabed.
Risers can be flexible or the International Organisation for Standardisation hybrids of flexible and rigid pipe.
Sour Service Applications to manage conveyed hydrocarbon fluids which contain high quantities of hydrogen sulphides and carbon dioxide.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 98 99
