GENERAL INFORMATION Wellstream Holdings PLC t th he e C Co om mp pa an ny y is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Group comprises Wellstream Holdings PLC and its subsidiaries.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and within the directors report.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS In the current year the Group has adopted International Financial Reporting Standard 2 revised and International Accounting Standard 23 revised.
IFRS 2 has been amended to change the definition of vesting conditions and to clarify the treatment of cancellations of non-vesting conditions.
Vesting conditions are now limited to service and performance conditions only.
All other conditions are non-vesting conditions, and are factored into grant date fair value.
If the counter-party of the entity can choose whether to meet a non-vesting condition, as is the case with the Groups SAYE schemes and Performance Share Plan, the failure by either party to meet the non vesting condition will be treated as a cancellation resulting in immediate recognition of the remaining IFRS2 charge.
The change in accounting policy has not been applied retrospectively as the effect of doing so would not be material to the Group, and therefore no restatement has been made to previous periods.
IAS 1 revised requires the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary statement, separate from the income statement.
As a result, the consolidated statement of changes in equity has been included in the primary statements, showing changes in each component of equity for each period presented.
IAS 23 revised requires that eligible borrowing costs incurred in respect of qualifying assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
This change in accounting policy is not retrospective and so does not impact on previously stated results.
The impact on the current period is also immaterial.
The following new IFRSs and amendments to IFRSs, IASs and IFRIC interpretations have been issued but have not been early adopted by the Group.
IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters Issued 23 July 2009, Effective January 2010.
IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share based Payment Transactions Issued 18 June 2009, Effective January 2010.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Issued 12 November 2009, Effective January 2013.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Issued 4 November 2009, Effective Date January 2011.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Issued 26 November 2009, Effective January 2011.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Issued 26 November 2009, Effective July 2010.
The directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting The consolidated financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IIF FR RS Ss s and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Directors have considered current business conditions, financial forecasts including cash flows and sensitivities, internal planning and control procedures and financial risks summarised above together with those identified in the Chief Executives Review on pages 11 to 33.
Whilst acknowledging each carries with it some uncertainty, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information includes the results, cash flows and assets and liabilities of Wellstream Holdings PLC the Company and the enterprises under its control its subsidiaries.
Control is defined as the ability to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Adjustments are made, where necessary, to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with Group policies.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over which the Group has joint control established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the entities assets, liabilities, income and expenses with items of similar nature on a line by line basis, from the date that joint control commences, until the date that joint control ceases.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually, with impairments being recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business remaining on the balance sheet is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to IFRSs, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Leasehold improvements between 15 and 30 years Freehold buildings 30 years Plant and equipment between 3 and 15 years Freehold land is not depreciated.
Property, plant and equipment are impaired if its recoverable amount falls below its carrying value.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement immediately.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Assets under construction represent buildings and plant pending installation, and are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include construction and other directly attributable costs.
No provision for depreciation is made until such time when the assets are completed and ready for use.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their current location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash-in-hand and bank overdrafts, where there is right of offset.
Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Interest received is classified within operating activities in the cash flow statement as it represents interest received on operational working capital.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated before exchange gains losses on financing, finance income and finance expenses.
Recognition of revenue and costs under construction contracts The Group follows the generally accepted practice of accounting for construction contracts.
Under this method, revenue and costs are recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by reference to the extent to which obligations identified at the commencement of the contract are considered to have been met.
These obligations may be contractual or non-contractual.
Variations in contract work and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been formally agreed with the customer.
Profit is only recognised where the outcome of a contract can be reliably estimated.
Typically, for pipe manufacture contracts, this means that profit is recognised on a stage of completion basis.
For installation contracts, profit is recognised in accordance with the risk profile of the contract as assessed by management.
The pattern of revenue recognition for installation contracts will depend on individual contract circumstances and terms.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Recognition of revenue other than under construction contracts Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
With the exception of goods sold under construction contracts, sales of goods are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred, which is typically when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development costs which are expected to generate probable future economic benefits are capitalised in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
All research expenditure, and any other development expenditure, is charged to the income statement.
Borrowing costs Eligible borrowing costs incurred in respect of qualifying assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
Government grants Government grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs.
Leasing Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
72 73 Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year and takes into account current and deferred taxation.
The charge is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The current tax charge is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred taxation is provided for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Retirement benefits The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for eligible employees.
The pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amount charged against profits represents the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the market rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Trading results are translated at the average rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation of the investment in overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with those on foreign currency loans accounted for as net investment hedges, are taken to equity.
On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Financial guarantee contract liabilities Financial guarantee contract liabilities are measured initially at their fair values and are subsequently measured at the higher of: the amount of the obligation under the contract, as determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and the amount initially recognised less, where appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with the revenue recognition policies set out above.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for shortterm receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Where appropriate, the Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally foreign currency and interest rate swaps and caps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest rate movements.
The Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Under IFRS derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
The Group has chosen not to use hedge accounting to date and therefore changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of equity settled share options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and the charge is only amended if vesting does not take place due to nonmarket conditions not being met.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share based payments is expensed over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured using the Black Scholes option pricing model.
With respect to share based payments, a deferred tax asset is recognised on the relevant tax base.
The tax base is then compared to the cumulative share based payment expense recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax arising on the excess of the tax base over the cumulative share-based payment expense recognised in the income statement has been recognised directly in equity outside the statement of comprehensive income as share based payments are considered to be transactions with shareholders.
Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises, in its own financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the share based payment charge recognised in the consolidated financial statements with the corresponding credit being recognised in equity.
Key estimates and judgments in applying the Groups accounting policies Management considers the key estimates and judgments made in the financial statements to be as follows: Recognition of revenue and costs under construction contracts Revenue and costs under construction contracts are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date, where the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably.
Stage of completion is determined by reference to the extent to which obligations identified at the commencement of the contract are considered to have been met.
The determination of whether the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably, the stage of completion of contract activity and the probability that contract costs incurred will be recovered can be inherently difficult to estimate and require management judgement.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of construction contracts are regularly reviewed in the light of the most current information available.
Share based payments Share based payment charges are calculated based upon the fair value of equity settled options granted to employees of the Group.
The fair value is calculated using the Black Scholes option pricing model.
These calculations require the use of estimates note 27.
