NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING TO BE HELD AT 11AM ON 12 MAY 2010 The Notice of Annual General Meeting of Wellstream Holdings PLC the Company, to be held at 11am on Wednesday, 12 May 2010 at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG, is set out on pages 100 to 114.
The action to be taken by Shareholders is set out on page 103.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to consult immediately your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial advisor duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if you reside elsewhere, another appropriately authorised financial advisor.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in the Company please forward this document, together with the accompanying documents, to the purchaser or transferee of your ordinary shares or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
100 101 Wellstream Holdings PLC Wellstream House Wincomblee Road Walker Riverside Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Tel: 44 0 191 295 9000 Fax: 44 0 191 295 9001 31 March 2010 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder 2010 Annual General Meeting It is my great pleasure to be writing to you enclosing the Notice convening the AGM of the Company, to be held at 11am on Wednesday, 12 May 2010 at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG.
The formal Notice which details the business to be considered at the meeting is set out on pages 104 to 108 of this document.
The purpose of this letter is to explain certain elements of that business to you.
A summary of the action to be taken by shareholders is set out at the end of this letter, on page 103. Business to be considered at the AGM This year, as well as the standard matters usually dealt with at an annual general meeting AGM, there are six additional items of business Resolutions 9 to 14.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each AGM of the Company one third of the directors retire by rotation.
This year the AGM will include motions to re-elect individually Sir Graham Hearne CBE, Mr Francisco Gros and Mr Pat Murray and to elect Mr Alasdair MacDonald who was appointed to the board on 21 September 2009.
Short biographical details of each director appear on pages 38 and 39 of the Annual Report.
Having considered the performance of, and contribution made by, each of the directors, the board remains satisfied that the performance of each director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and, as such, recommends their re-election.
The six additional items of business for consideration at the AGM, of which resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions, are explained in this letter below.
Explanatory notes on all the business to be considered at this years AGM appear on pages 109 to 115.
Resolution 9 Directors power to allot shares Paragraph A of this resolution would give the directors the authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 332,666.74 representing 33,266,674 ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 March 2010.
In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, paragraph B of this resolution would give the directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 665,333.48 representing 66,533,348 ordinary shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of this resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 March 2010.
If this authority is exercised, the directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to time including as to the re-election of directors.
The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of this resolution will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2011 the last date by which the Company must hold an AGM in 2011 and the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2011.
The directors have no present intention to exercise either of the authorities sought under this resolution.
As at the date of the Notice, no ordinary shares are held by the Company in treasury.
Resolution 10 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution, which requires a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
It would give the directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 49,900.01 representing 4,990,001 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 March 2010.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Companys Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B of resolution 10 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue only subject to the right of the board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2011 the last date by which the Company must hold an AGM in 2011 and the conclusion of the AGM of the Company held in 2011.
Resolution 11 Power to purchase shares Resolution 11 will be proposed to enable the Company to purchase in the market up to a maximum of 9,980,002 ordinary shares representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital on 29 March 2010 for cancellation at a minimum price of 0.01 per share and a maximum price of not more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased.
The directors would not expect to purchase ordinary shares in the market unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they considered that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Further, the directors expect that if any ordinary shares were to be purchased, such shares would be cancelled.
Any purchases made by the Company will be announced no later than 7.30am on the business day following the transaction.
Resolution 12 Amending Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 12 to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the implementation of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006 and amendments to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the explanatory notes.
Other changes, which are minor, technical or clarifying in nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the Uncertificated Securities Regulations have not been noted.
It is proposed that the New Articles will take effect immediately following the conclusion of the AGM.
Resolution 13 Notice of general meetings This resolution is required to reflect the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing the Shareholder Rights Directive has increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholder Rights Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Resolution 14 Share Incentive Plan It is proposed in resolution 14 to approve the new Wellstream Holdings PLC Share Incentive Plan SIP in order to provide employees with an opportunity to invest in the Company and align their interests with those of shareholders.
The SIP allows for free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares to be offered to employees.
The Board decides which type s of share award will actually be offered to employees.
The principal provisions of the SIP are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of AGM dated 31 March 2010.
102 103 Action to be taken by Shareholders Accompanying this document are the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 and a Form of Proxy.
You are asked to complete and sign the Form of Proxy and return it to the Companys registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 11am on 10 May 2010.
A map showing how to get to Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG has also been included.
All members of the Company are entitled to attend, speak and vote at the AGM or to appoint another person whether a member or not as a proxy to exercise that members rights to attend and to speak and to vote at the AGM.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
Recommendation The directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and recommend you to vote in favour of them, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
John W. Kennedy Chairman WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the AGM of Wellstream Holdings PLC the Company will be held at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG on Wednesday, 12 May 2010 at 11am.
Resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be proposed as Special Resolutions and the remainder as Ordinary Resolutions.
RESOLUTION 1 To receive the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2009, together with the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
RESOLUTION 2 To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
RESOLUTION 3 To re-elect Sir Graham Hearne CBE as a director of the Company.
RESOLUTION 4 To re-elect Mr. Francisco Gros as a director of the Company.
RESOLUTION 5 To re-elect Mr. Pat Murray as a director of the Company RESOLUTION 6 To elect Mr. Alasdair MacDonald as director of the Company.
RESOLUTION 7 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2009.
RESOLUTION 8 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 6p per ordinary share payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 May 2010.
RESOLUTION 9 THAT, in substitution for all existing authorities, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to: A allot shares as defined in section 540 of the Companies Act 2006 in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 332,666.74: and B allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 665,333.48 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company granted under paragraph A of this Resolution 9 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue : i to ordinary Shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, 104 105 such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys next AGM after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2011 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
RESOLUTION 10 THAT, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 9, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 9 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph B of resolution 9, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and B to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 9 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph A of this resolution 10 up to a nominal amount of 49,900.01. such power to apply until the end of the Companys next AGM after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2011 but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
RESOLUTION 11 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 0.01 each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 9,980,002 representing approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 0.01: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the date of the next AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 30 June 2011: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESOLUTION 12 THAT: a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions formerly in the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and b the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the New Articles of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
RESOLUTION 13 THAT a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that the authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date of passing of the resolution.
RESOLUTION 14 THAT: a the Wellstream Holdings PLC Share Incentive Plan SIP, the main features of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of AGM and a copy of the rules and trust deed of which have been produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, be approved and the directors be authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary or desirable to carry the same into effect and to make such changes as they consider appropriate for that purpose: b the Companys board be hereby authorised to establish future share plans for the benefit of employees overseas based on the SIP, modified to the extent necessary or desirable to take account of overseas tax, securities and exchange control laws and regulations, provided that such plans must operate within the limits on individual or overall participation summarised in the Appendix to this Notice of AGM.
By order of the Board Rob Lamb Company Secretary 31 March 2010 Registered Office: Wellstream House Wincomblee Road Walker Riverside Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Registered in England and Wales No.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A person who is not a member of the Company, but has been nominated by a member of the Company under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the relevant member to enjoy information rights the nominated person, does not have a right to appoint any proxies under note 1 above.
A nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to be appointed or to have somebody else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a nominated person does not have such a right, or has such a right and does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under an agreement with the relevant member to give instructions as to the exercise of voting rights.
To be effective, the proxy form or instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the Companys registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6ZR by 11am on 10 May 2010.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
Delivery or receipt of an appointment of proxy does not prevent a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
In accordance with section 360B 2 of the Companies Act 2006 only those members entered on the relevant register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 10 May 2010 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of members after 6pm on 10 May 2010 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The register referred to in note 4 means the issuer register of members and the operator register of members maintained in accordance with Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the letters of appointment for the non-executive directors of the Company will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE6 3PF, and at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ, during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice until the close of the AGM and will also be available for inspection at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG from 10am on Wednesday 12 May 2010 until the end of the meeting.
A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed New Articles that reflect these amendments will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE6 3PF, and at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ, during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice until the close of the AGM and will also be available for inspection at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5JG from 10am on Wednesday 12 May 2010 until the end of the meeting.
A copy of the rules and trust deed of the Wellstream Holdings PLC Share Incentive Plan SIP will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE6 3PF and at Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ, during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice until the close of the AGM and will also be available for inspection at Credit Suisse, 2nd Floor, 45 Pall Mall, London SW1 5JG from 10am on Wednesday 12 May 2010 until the end of the meeting.
At 29 March 2010 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the issued share capital of the Company consists of 99,800,025 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 29 March 2010 are 99,800,025.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 12.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA 19 not later than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
A copy of this Notice and the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at www.
108 109 EXPLANATORY NOTES ABOUT THE RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE AGM RESOLUTION 1 Annual Accounts and Reports for 2009 The Directors will present to Shareholders at the AGM the Companys annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2009, together with the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Auditors Report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
RESOLUTION 2 Re-appointment of the Auditors The Directors are proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditors to the Company and, following standard practice, seek authority to determine the Auditors remuneration.
RESOLUTIONS 3, 4 AND 5 Re-election of Directors Retiring by Rotation Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors must retire at each AGM, selected according to their length of service and elapsed time since their last re-election.
Sir Graham Hearne, Francisco Gros and Pat Murray are each required to stand for re-election.
The Board believes that each of them should be re-elected, subject to Shareholder approval, because they have each continued to be effective members of the Board and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
RESOLUTION 6 Election of Directors The Board proposes a motion to elect Mr. Alasdair MacDonald who was appointed to the Board on 21 September 2009.
RESOLUTION 7 Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require listed companies to present the Directors Remuneration Report for shareholder approval at each AGM.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 63 of the Companys Annual Report enclosed with this notice.
The Remuneration Committee, which assisted the directors in the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report, has unanimously approved the report and the directors have also unanimously approved the report.
RESOLUTION 8 Dividend The Board proposes to declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 6p per ordinary share payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 May 2010.
RESOLUTION 9 Authority to Allot Shares This resolution is to renew, for a further year, the general authority to allot shares given to the Board at the last AGM of the Company.
The resolution will give the Board a general authority to allot up to 33,266,674 ordinary shares of 1p each representing approximately 33.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 29 March 2010 which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
The resolution will also give the Board authority to allot up to an additional 33,266,674 ordinary shares of 1p each representing approximately 33.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 29 March 2010, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice, provided certain conditions apply, including that the additional authority only applies to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
The Company did not hold any of its own shares as treasury shares as at 29 March 2010 which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
The directors have no present intention to use this authority, which will expire at the end of the next AGM of the Company held after the passing of this resolution or close of business on 30 June 2011 whichever is earlier.
As is normal practice, the directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent AGMs.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESOLUTION 10 Disapplication of Statutory Pre-emption Rights The Companies Act 2006 requires that, subject to certain exceptions, before directors of a company can issue any new shares for cash, the new shares must first be offered to existing shareholders proportionately to their existing shareholdings.
However, it may sometimes be in the interests of the Company for the directors to allot shares other than to existing shareholders in their existing shareholdings.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 permits the Company to purchase its own shares and, rather than cancel those shares, to hold them as treasury shares, in which case they would carry no voting rights and no entitlement to any dividend for as long as they are held as treasury shares.
The treasury shares may be sold for cash, transferred for the purposes of employee share schemes, or cancelled.
This resolution would allow the directors to allot shares for cash or sell treasury shares for cash to an aggregate maximum of 4,990,001 ordinary shares of 1p each, representing approximately 5% of the number of issued ordinary shares in the capital of the Company as at 29 March 2010 which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
The authority provided by this resolution would permit the directors to sell any such shares held as treasury shares for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders.
The authority the directors are seeking will expire at the next AGM of the Company held after the passing of this resolution or close of business on 30 June 2011, whichever is earlier.
They intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent AGMs.
The directors are not currently contemplating any issue of new shares.
RESOLUTION 11 Authorising Market Purchase of its Own Shares by the Company The Company is seeking a general authority to make market purchases of its own shares in a certain price range.
This does not mean that the Company will buy its own shares at any particular price or indeed at all.
The directors are not currently intending to use this authority but wish to retain the flexibility to do so in the future.
If the Company were to use this authority, it would only buy shares on the London Stock Exchange and the Board would only use the power to buy shares after considering the effect on earnings per share and the benefits for longer-term shareholders.
The Company intends that any shares purchased would either be cancelled or would be held by the Company as treasury shares, in which case they would carry no voting rights and no entitlement to receive any dividend for as long as they are held as treasury shares.
The authority would expire at the end of the next AGM of the Company held after the passing of this resolution or close of business on 30 June 2011, whichever is earlier.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent AGMs.
The maximum number of shares the Company can buy is 9,980,002 ordinary shares in total representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 29 March 2010 which is the latest practicable date before publication of this notice.
The minimum price that can be paid for an ordinary share is 1p being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
The maximum price that can be paid for an ordinary share is 5% over the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share, derived from the Daily Official List of The London Stock Exchange, for the five business days immediately before the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased.
RESOLUTION 12 Changes to the Company Articles 1.
The Companys objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association.
The Companys Memorandum of Association contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum of association.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of the subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum of association, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
110 111 Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 12 a confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of Shareholders.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Allotment authority and disapplication of pre-emptive rights Under the Companies Act 1985, it was common practice to include in the articles of association an authority for directors to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights.
However, investor protection committees support annual renewal of such authorities by shareholder resolution, notwithstanding a company having such provisions in its articles.
Given that the Company proposes to remove other enabling provisions no longer required to be in the articles under the Companies Act 2006, the Company would like to simplify its articles by removing these authorities.
This means that in the future the Company will be relying on the resolutions passed at its AGM to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights.
Directors fees Guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, the UKs leading financial services trade association, states that articles of association should contain a monetary cap on the amount of aggregate fees payable to directors.
In accordance with this guidance the Companys existing articles of association contain a cap of 500,000.
It is proposed at the 2010 AGM that the cap on the amount of directors fees be increased to 750,000.
This is intended partly to increase the headroom which the Company has in order to give it more flexibility should it be required to increase the number of directors to the Board.
Redeemable shares Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles of association the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The current Articles of Association include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Use of seals Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its articles of association to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the new Articles.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The current Articles of Association permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the current Articles of Association to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 9.
Voting by proxies on a show of hand The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The current Articles of Association have been amended to reflect these changes.
Voting by corporate representatives The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles contain provisions which reflect these amendments.
Chairmans casting vote Traded companies should no longer allow the Chairman a casting vote at meetings where there is an equality of votes on an ordinary resolution.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The current Articles of Association have been changed to clarify the fact that this requirement refers to clear days.
Voting record date Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
The current Articles of Association have been amended to reflect this requirement excluding non-working days.
Special Business Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, a company is required to state the general nature of all business to be dealt with at a meeting.
The New Articles remove provisions relating to Special Business in order to reflect this.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to update references, cross-references and language to bring the Articles of Association in line with the provisions under the Companies Act 2006, including those implemented by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
RESOLUTION 13 Notice of General Meetings This resolution is required to reflect the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
RESOLUTION 14 This resolution is to approve the new Wellstream Holdings PLC Share Incentive Plan SIP in order to provide employees with an opportunity to invest in the Company and align their interests with those of shareholders.
The SIP is an all-employee share plan which is designed to be approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
It allows for free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares to be offered to employees.
112 113 APPENDIX INTRODUCTION The SIP is an all-employee share plan which is designed to be approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC.
Set out below is a summary of its main features: OUTLINE The SIP is intended to be flexible and the Company may offer any combination of the features outlined below to allow eligible employees to obtain ordinary shares in the Company.
Under the SIP, the Company can: a give up to 3,000 worth of free shares a year to an employee Free Shares : b offer an employee the opportunity of buying up to 1,500 of shares a year Partnership Shares out of pre-tax salary: c give an employee up to two free matching shares for each Partnership Share bought Matching Shares : and d in addition to buying up to 1,500 of Partnership Shares each year, allow employees to purchase more shares using dividends received on Free Shares, Partnership Shares and Matching Shares Dividend Shares.
Employees may buy up to 1,500 of Dividend Shares annually.
Any award under the SIP is not pensionable, although the salary used to purchase Partnership Shares will be.
ELIGIBILITY Each time that the Board or a duly authorised committee thereof decides to operate the SIP, all UK resident tax-paying employees of the Company and its participating subsidiaries must be offered the opportunity to participate.
The Board can require employees to have completed a minimum qualifying period of employment before they can participate, but that period must not exceed eighteen months.
Other employees may be permitted to participate at the Boards discretion.
FREE SHARES Up to 3,000 worth of Free Shares can be awarded to each employee in a tax year.
Free Shares must be awarded on similar terms, so that the number awarded to each employee is determined by standard criteria such as remuneration, length of service and number of hours worked.
The award of Free Shares can, if the Company so chooses, be subject to the satisfaction of a pre-award performance target which measures the objective success of the individual, team, division or business.
There is a holding period of between three and five years the precise duration to be determined by the Board during which the employee cannot withdraw the Free Shares from the SIP unless the employee leaves employment.
The Board can, at its discretion, provide that the Free Shares will be forfeit if the employee leaves employment other than in the circumstances of injury, disability, redundancy, transfer of the employing business or company, on reaching retirement age or on death.
Forfeiture can only take place within three years of the Free Shares being awarded.
PARTNERSHIP SHARES The Board may allow an employee to use pre-tax salary to buy Partnership Shares.
The maximum limit is the lower of 1,500 or 10 per cent of salary in any tax year.
The salary allocated to Partnership Shares can be accumulated for a period up to 12 months Accumulation Period or Partnership Shares can be purchased monthly out of deductions from the employees pay.
In either case, Partnership Shares must be bought within 30 days of, as appropriate, the end of the Accumulation Period or the deduction from pay.
An employee may stop and start deductions at any time.
Once acquired, Partnership Shares may be withdrawn from the SIP by the employee at any time and will not be capable of forfeiture.
MATCHING SHARES The Board may offer Matching Shares free to an employee who has purchased Partnership Shares.
If awarded, Matching Shares must be awarded on the same basis to all employees up to a maximum of two Matching Shares for every Partnership Share purchased.
There is a holding period of between three and five years during which the employee cannot withdraw the Matching Shares from the SIP unless the employee leaves employment.
The Board can, at its discretion, provide that the Matching Shares will be forfeit if the employee leaves employment other than in the circumstances of injury, disability, redundancy, transfer of the employing business or company, on reaching retirement age or on death or if the associated Partnership Shares are withdrawn by the employee.
Forfeiture can only take place within three years of the Matching Shares being awarded.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM APPENDIX INVESTMENT OF DIVIDENDS The Board may allow an employee to reinvest dividends in up to 1,500 of Shares each tax year.
Dividend Shares must be held in the SIP for three years, unless the employee leaves employment.
Once acquired, Dividend Shares are not capable of forfeiture.
PLAN TRUST The SIP is operated through a UK resident trust SIP Trust.
The SIP Trust purchases or subscribes for shares that are subsequently awarded to employees.
The money to buy shares will be provided either by the Company or, if employees are allowed to acquire Partnership Shares, by the employees.
LIMITS The rules of the SIP provide that, in any period of ten years, not more than 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital may be issued under the SIP and under any other employees share scheme operated by the Company.
AMENDMENTS The Board may at any time amend the SIP.
However, the prior approval of the Company in general meeting must be obtained in the case of any amendment to the advantage of participants which is made to the provisions relating to eligibility, individual or overall limits or the basis for determining an employees entitlement or the provisions affecting variations of share capital, except for any minor amendment to benefit the administration of the SIP, to take account of any change in legislation, or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or the Company.
In addition, any change to the key features of the SIP being provisions necessary to meet the requirements of the relevant tax legislation requires the prior approval of HMRC.
Wellstream Holdings PLC Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Tel: 44 0 191 295 9000 www.
com Company Number 4601199 114 115 CONTENTS 01........ FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 02....... WELLSTREAM 04....... CASE STUDIES 07....... CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 11........ CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 35........ FINANCIAL REVIEW 38........ BOARD OF DIRECTORS 41........ DIRECTORS REPORT 47........ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 52........
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 53........ DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 63........ DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT 64.......
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC 66....... GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 66.......
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 67........
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 68....... BALANCE SHEETS 69....... CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 70....... ACCOUNTING POLICIES 75........ NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 98.......
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 99....... GLOSSARY 100...... NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 NOTICE OF AGM 00 01 WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2009 Designed and produced by The Roundhouse Newcastle upon Tyne WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT &ACCOUNTS 2009 WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC Wellstream House, Wincomblee Road, Walker Riverside, Newcastle upon Tyne NE6 3PF Telephone: 44 0 191 295 9000 www.
