baCk to ContentS Statement of direCtorS reSPonSibiLitieS The directors are responsible for the management of In preparing these financial statements, the directors the business of the Company and may exercise all the are required to: powers of the Company subject to applicable legislation a select suitable accounting policies and then apply and regulation, the Companys Memorandum and them consistently: Articles of Association.
b make judgements and estimates that are Company law requires the directors to prepare financial reasonable and prudent: statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group c state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards financial statements under International Financial have been followed, subject to any material Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the departures disclosed and explained in the financial European Union.
The Group financial statements statements: and are also required by law to be properly prepared in d prepare the financial statements on the going accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume of the IAS Regulation.
that the company will continue in business.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS The directors are responsible for keeping proper financial statements present fairly for each financial accounting records that disclose with reasonable year the Companys financial position, financial accuracy at any time the financial position of the performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful Company and enable them to ensure that the parent representation of the effects of transactions, other company financial statements comply with the events and conditions in accordance with the definitions Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence and expenses set out in the International Accounting for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Standards Boards Framework for the preparation detection of fraud and other irregularities, as described and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually more fully in the Corporate Governance Report on all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved pages 17 to 23. by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: The directors confirm that the above requirements have been complied with in the financial statements.
a properly select and apply accounting policies: b present information, including accounting policies, direCtorS reSPonSibiLity Statement in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, PurSuant to dtr4 comparable and understandable information: and The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: c provide additional disclosures when compliance with a the financial statements, prepared in accordance the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to with the relevant financial reporting framework, give enable users to understand the impact of particular a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial transactions, other events and conditions on the position and profit or loss of the company and the entitys financial position and financial performance.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with b the management report contained in this report United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting includes a fair review of the development and Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards performance of the business and the position and applicable law.
The parent company financial of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, statements are required by law to give a true and together with a description of the principal risks fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
and uncertainties that they face.
kate Swann robert moorhead group Chief executive group finance director WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24
