20 Directors Report and Accounts Directors responsibility for the consolidated fi financial statements audit report Statement of directors responsibilities Independent auditors report to the information given in the Directors The following statement, which should the members of Whitbread PLC report is consistent with the fi financial be read in conjunction with the auditors We have audited the Group fi financial statements.
The information given in the statement of their responsibilities below, statements of Whitbread PLC for the Directors report includes that specifi c is made with a view to distinguishing year ended 26 February 2009 which information presented in the Directors for shareholders the respective comprise the Consolidated Income report, the Chairmans Statement, the responsibilities of the directors and of Statement, the Consolidated Statement Chief Executives review, the Finance the auditor in relation to the fi financial of Recognised Income and Expense, Directors review, the Corporate statements.
the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Governance report and the fi financial Consolidated Cash Flow Statement summaries and highlights that is crossThe directors are required by the and the related notes 1 to 38.
These referred from the Directors report.
Companies Act 1985 to prepare Group fi financial statements have been fi financial statements for each year which prepared under the accounting policies In addition we report to you if, in our give a true and fair view of the state of set out therein.
opinion, we have not received all affairs of the Group as at the end of the the information and explanations we fi financial year and of the profi t or loss We have reported separately on the require for our audit, or if information for the fi financial year.
parent Company fi financial statements specifi ed by law regarding directors of Whitbread PLC for the year ended remuneration and other transactions is The directors consider that, in preparing 26 February 2009 and on the information not disclosed.
the fi financial statements on pages 22 in the Directors Remuneration report to 63, the Group has used appropriate that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate accounting policies, consistently Governance report refl ects the applied and supported by reasonable This report is made solely to the Companys compliance with the nine and prudent judgements and estimates, Companys members, as a body, in provisions of the 2006 Combined and that all applicable Accounting accordance with Section 235 of the Code specifi ed for our review by the Standards have been followed.
Our audit work Listing Rules of the Financial Services has been undertaken so that we might Authority, and we report if it does not.
The directors have responsibility state to the Companys members those We are not required to consider whether for ensuring that the Group keeps matters we are required to state to them the Boards statements on internal accounting records which disclose in an auditors report and for no other control cover all risks and controls, or with reasonable accuracy the fi financial purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted form an opinion on the effectiveness position of the Group and which enable by law, we do not accept or assume of the Groups corporate governance them to ensure that the fi financial responsibility to anyone other than the procedures or its risk and control statements comply with the Companies Company and the Companys members procedures.
Act 1985. as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have We read other information contained The directors have general responsibility formed.
in the Annual Report and consider for taking such steps as are reasonably whether it is consistent with the open to them to safeguard the assets Respective responsibilities of audited Group fi financial statements.
of the Group and to prevent and detect directors and auditors The other information comprises only fraud and other irregularities.
The directors responsibilities for the Directors report, the Chairmans preparing the Annual Report and Statement, the Chief Executives review, Responsibility statement the Group fi financial statements in the Finance Directors review, and the We confi rm on behalf of the Board that, accordance with applicable United fi financial summaries and highlights.
to the best of our knowledge: Kingdom law and International Financial We consider the implications for our the fi financial statements, prepared Reporting Standards IFRSs as report if we become aware of any in accordance with International adopted by the European Union are apparent misstatements or material Financial Reporting Standards as set out in the Statement of Directors inconsistencies with the Group fi financial adopted by the EU, give a true and Responsibilities.
Our responsibilities do not fair view of the assets, liabilities, extend to any other information.
fi financial position and profi t of the Our responsibility is to audit the Group Group taken as a whole: and fi financial statements in accordance Basis of audit opinion the Directors report includes a with relevant legal and regulatory We conducted our audit in accordance fair review of the development and requirements and International with International Standards on performance of the business and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the position of the Group taken as a the Auditing Practices Board.
An whole, together with a description of We report to you our opinion as to audit includes examination, on a test the principal risks and uncertainties whether the Group fi financial statements basis, of evidence relevant to the that they face.
give a true and fair view and whether amounts and disclosures in the Group the Group fi financial statements have fi financial statements.
It also includes an By order of the Board been properly prepared in accordance assessment of the signifi cant estimates with the Companies Act 1985 and and judgements made by the directors Alan Parker Christopher Rogers Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also in the preparation of the Group fi financial Chief Executive Finance Director report to you whether in our opinion statements, and of whether the www.
co. uk annualreport0809 21 accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26 February 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 27 April 2009 www.
