65 Directors responsibility for the Company financial statements audit report Statement of directors responsibilities permitted by law, we do not accept or for our report if we become aware of The following statement, which should assume responsibility to anyone other than any apparent misstatements or material be read in conjunction with the auditors the Company and the Companys members inconsistencies with the parent Company statement of their responsibilities below, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, financial statements.
Our responsibilities do is made with a view to distinguishing for or for the opinions we have formed.
not extend to any other information.
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation Respective responsibilities Basis of audit opinion to the financial statements.
of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance The directors responsibilities for with International Standards on Auditing The directors are required by the Companies preparing the Annual Report, the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Act 1985 to prepare financial statements Directors Remuneration report and the Practices Board.
An audit includes for each year which give a true and fair parent Company financial statements examination, on a test basis, of evidence view of the state of affairs of the Company in accordance with applicable United relevant to the amounts and disclosures in as at the end of the financial year and of Kingdom law and Accounting Standards the parent Company financial statements the profit or loss for the financial year.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted and the part of the Directors Remuneration Accounting Practice are set out in the report to be audited.
It also includes an The directors consider that, in preparing the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
assessment of the significant estimates financial statements on pages 66 to 69, the and judgements made by the directors in Company has used appropriate accounting Our responsibility is to audit the parent the preparation of the parent Company policies, consistently applied and supported Company financial statements and the financial statements, and of whether the by reasonable and prudent judgements part of the Directors Remuneration report accounting policies are appropriate to the and estimates, and that all applicable to be audited in accordance with relevant Companys circumstances, consistently Accounting Standards have been followed.
legal and regulatory requirements and applied and adequately disclosed.
International Standards on Auditing The directors have responsibility for UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit ensuring that the Company keeps so as to obtain all the information and accounting records which disclose with We report to you our opinion as to whether explanations which we considered reasonable accuracy the financial position the parent Company financial statements necessary in order to provide us with of the Company and which enable them to give a true and fair view and whether the sufficient evidence to give reasonable ensure that the financial statements comply parent Company financial statements and assurance that the parent Company with the Companies Act 1985. the part of the Directors Remuneration financial statements and the part of report to be audited have been properly the Directors Remuneration report The directors have general responsibility for prepared in accordance with the to be audited are free from material taking such steps as are reasonably open Companies Act 1985.
We also report to misstatement, whether caused by fraud to them to safeguard the assets of the you whether in our opinion the information or other irregularity or error.
In forming Company and to prevent and detect fraud given in the parent Companys Directors our opinion we also evaluated the overall and other irregularities.
report is consistent with the financial adequacy of the presentation of information statements.
The information given in the in the parent Company financial statements Independent auditors report to Directors report includes that specific and the part of the Directors Remuneration the members of Whitbread PLC information presented in the Directors report to be audited.
We have audited the parent Company report, the Chairmans statement, the financial statements of Whitbread PLC Chief Executives review, the Finance Opinion for the year ended 26 February 2009 Directors review and the Corporate In our opinion: which comprise the Balance Sheet and Governance report that is cross-referred the parent Company financial the related notes 1 to 11.
These parent from the Directors report.
statements give a true and fair view, Company financial statements have been in accordance with United Kingdom prepared under the accounting policies In addition we report to you if, in our Generally Accepted Accounting set out therein.
We have also audited the opinion, the Company has not kept proper Practice, of the state of the Companys information in the Directors Remuneration accounting records, if we have not received affairs as at 26 February 2009: report that is described as having been all the information and explanations we the parent Company financial audited.
require for our audit, or if information statements and the part of the specified by law regarding directors Directors Remuneration report to be We have reported separately on the Group remuneration and other transactions is audited have been properly prepared financial statements of Whitbread PLC for not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies the year ended 26 February 2009.
Act 1985: and We read other information contained in the information given in the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys the Annual Report and consider whether report is consistent with the parent members, as a body, in accordance with it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
The other Our audit work has been undertaken so information comprises only the Directors Ernst & Young LLP that we might state to the Companys report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Registered auditor members those matters we are required Executives review, the Finance Directors London to state to them in an auditors report and review and the financial summaries and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent highlights.
We consider the implications 27 April 2009 www.
