co. uk annualreport0809 Contents 1 Directors report 4 Risks and uncertainties 6 Corporate governance report 10 Remuneration report 19 Whitbread PLC consolidated accounts 20 Directors responsibility for the consolidated financial statements audit report 22 Consolidated income statement 23 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 24 Consolidated balance sheet 25 Consolidated cash flow statement 26 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 64 Whitbread PLC Company accounts 65 Directors responsibility for the Company financial statements audit report 66 Balance sheet 67 Notes to the accounts 70 Analysis of shares The full Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 comprising this document together with the Annual Review and Summary Report are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free of charge, by telephoning Capita Registrars on 0844 855 2327.
Directors Report and Accounts 2008 09 Whitbread PLC a year in figures Designed and produced by Columns Design, www.
com The paper used in this Report is FSC Chain-of-Custody certified.
This acknowledges it has been manufactured from well-managed forests and controlled sources.
The pulp was bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Printed in the UK by Royle Print Limited, a carbon-neutral printing company.
Under the framework of ISO 14001 Royle Print take a structured approach to measure, improve and audit its environmental status on an ongoing basis.
The main environmental areas targeted for continual reduction arise from the use of solvents, energy consumption and waste generation.
Royle Print are also Forestry Stewardship Council FSC Chain-of-Custody certified.
Annual Review and Summary Report 2008 09 Whitbread Plc a year in the life of Whitbread Designed and produced by Columns Design, www.
XXX-XXX-000 2 Welcome to Whitbread In this Annual Review, we report on our performance during the past twelve months.
We also show you a Whitbread day, and the many different ways we touch the lives of thousands of customers every day.
contents Financial Highlights Total revenue from Profit before tax and 1 Chairmans statement 1 Continuing operations exceptional items for 1 m Continuing operations 2 Group at a glance m 4 Chief Executives review 1,334.6 229.9 210.3 1,216.7 1,173.5 8 Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants 166.5 10 Costa 11 Our markets 12 Finance Directors review 14 Corporate responsibility 06 07 07 08 08 09 06 07 07 08 08 09 18 Key performance indicators Diluted pre-exceptional Full year dividend p EPS for Continuing 1 19 Risks and uncertainties operations p 20 Board of directors 92.99 36.55 36.00 30.25 78.78 22 Senior management 23 Summary 48.24 remuneration report 27 Summary directors report 29 Independent auditors report 06 07 07 08 08 09 06 07 07 08 08 09 30 Summary financial statements 34 Shareholder services 1 Continuing operations The Annual Review aims to give shareholders a clear and concise overview of the Groups business and Continuing operations comprises Whitbread prospects, but does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results Hotels and Restaurants and Costa plus the and affairs of the Group as would be provided by the full Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. supply chain sales to third parties but excludes any discontinued businesses David Lloyd Throughout this document there may be references to the notes to the accounts.
These notes Leisure disposed of during 2007 08. can be found in the Directors Report and Accounts but are not contained within this document.
The full Whitbread Report and Accounts 2008 09 comprising this document together with the Directors Report and Accounts are published on our website www.
co. uk and can also be obtained, free of charge, by telephoning Capita Registrars on 0844 855 2327. www.
co. uk annualreport0809 1 Chairmans statement This was the first full year Whitbread dividend will be paid on 10 July 2009 to operated as a focused hotel and shareholders on the register at the close restaurant company.
It follows a number of business on 8 May 2009.
This year we of years in which we have concentrated propose to introduce a scrip dividend our resources on growth in attractive, alternative, subject to shareholder value for money sectors, building strong, approval, to replace the existing dividend distinctive brands with real competitive reinvestment plan.
including details of how shareholders can elect to participate should they wish 2008 09 was a year of good progress to do so, will be included with my letter to and, against a backdrop of increasingly shareholders relating to the forthcoming difficult economic conditions, we Annual General Meeting.
Revenues at our Hotels and Restaurants Board business were up 9% and revenues I am pleased to report that, as of the We are focused at Costa were up 22% the fifth year beginning of 2009, Patrick Dempsey of double-digit growth.
Premier Inn was appointed to the Board.
Patrick on managing added a record 4,553 new rooms to the joined Whitbread in 2004 and took estate, exceeding our original target.
We over the management of Whitbreads Whitbread prudently opened 13 new restaurants and added budget hotels business in 2005, since 296 coffee shops.
when Premier Inn has grown by around and tightly in light 10,000 rooms and undertaken a major During the year, management undertook rebranding.
of the challenges an organisational review to ensure the business operates efficiently.
The Stephen Williams was appointed as we now face.
hotels and restaurants businesses were Senior Independent Director, replacing combined into one operating unit and we Rod Kent who stepped down from the announced a number of key outsourcing Board on 31 March 2008.
We are on track to achieve the who is General Counsel and Chief promised 25 million cost savings by Legal Officer at Unilever and Senior 2010 11.
Independent Director at Arriva PLC, joined the Board on 27 April 2008.
Our strong operational performance and investment in the business in People 2008 09 provide us with a good platform On behalf of the Board, I would like to for the tougher times we have now thank all our people for their continued entered.
We are focused on managing commitment, energy and drive to Whitbread prudently and tightly in light succeed.
Our people are the most of the challenges we now face and, while important part of our business, ensuring we remain committed to growing the that all of our customers receive the business, we have decided to limit our standards of service they expect of capital expenditure this year and we aim Whitbread.
We work hard to develop our to achieve cash neutrality.
people, providing training and a clear path of progression to encourage them We go into 2009 10 with a robust to flourish.
balance sheet, market-leading brands in value for money sectors and proven operational expertise.
Dividend In the light of current trading conditions the Board recommends an unchanged Anthony Habgood final dividend of 26.90p per share, Chairman making a total dividend for the year of 36.55p per share, up 1.5%.
co. uk annualreport0809 2 Group at a glance Strong hotel and restaurant brands Whitbread is the UKs largest hotel and restaurant group Beefeater operating market-leading businesses in the budget hotel Beefeater was established over 35 years ago.
There are and restaurant sectors.
Our brands are Premier Inn, now 130 Beefeater restaurants across the UK.
We only use Beefeater, Table Table, Brewers Fayre, Taybarns and Costa.
the finest cuts of steak from traditionally reared cattle fed predominantly on grass to ensure exceptional flavour and Whitbread employs over 33,000 people and serves millions tenderness.
Our steaks are expertly prepared and matured of customers every month in its 1,800 outlets across the UK.
for a minimum of 28 days before being seared on the chargrill for that special Beefeater taste.
Today on our menu youll Premier Inn also find succulent chicken, fish and lamb grills as well as With nearly 600 hotels, Premier Inn is the UKs largest hotel fabulous salads.
Our guests tell us they love the value for money we offer, our clean and comfortable rooms and the warm welcome they Brewers Fayre receive from our team members.
The Premier Inn brand is A family restaurant, serving Britains favourite pub food.
The only just a little over a year old, yet already it has become the first new Brewers Fayre for three years was opened in Banbury favourite budget hotel brand for business travellers.
The Brewers Fayre estate totals 130 restaurants, many of which have been refurbished during the year, with Premier Inn is transforming the perception of the budget hotel.
Our extra value menu gives Our rooms feature en-suite bathrooms, TV with Freeview and more range and choice to customers and weve increased internet access.
One of the real benefits of staying at Premier the number of dishes available in our every day Fayre Deal.
Inn is that, at every one of our hotels, you will find a restaurant serving good food and drinks at reasonable prices.
Premier Inn Premier Inn guest rooms satisfaction score 40,559 81% Rooms opened Number of business in 2008 09 account card holders 4,553 61,000 New rooms planned Number of Premier Inn for 2009 10 and Whitbread branded 2,000 restaurant joint sites 328 www.
co. uk annualreport0809 3 Pub Restaurant Table Table Costa Table Table was launched in the UK in May 2008 and now At Costa we make it better.
Our in-store baristas are all has 105 restaurants.
We call it your Table Table because coached in the art of handmade coffee at a Costa Coffee weve designed different spaces in each restaurant to suit Academy, like the one at our very own roastery in Lambeth, different customer occasions and moods.
quick snacks or leisurely meals, with friends or family.
Table Table offers just the kind of warm and friendly service our Costa opened its first store in Moscow during March 2008, guests want.
Costa has over 880 stores in the UK and over 400 internationally.
It operates in Taybarns 25 countries and is the second largest international coffee The latest Whitbread restaurant is Taybarns, the ultimate shop brand.
Taybarns is an innovative dining experience and offers a range of dishes, freshly prepared in front of guests, along a Costa was the first UK coffee shop chain to commit to huge 34-metre counter.
You pay one great value price for all sourcing beans from Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
Already very popular, there are now seven Taybarns across the UK.
The Costa Foundation was set up in 2006 to give something back to coffee-growing communities.
By 2010 the Foundation will have funded the building of 11 new schools in these communities.
Total annual Number of UK stores restaurant covers 881 38.0 million Average restaurant Number of food spend per guest international stores 7.46 407 Average branded Costa guest # restaurants guest satisfaction score satisfaction score 72% 85% # Number of guests rating value-for-money as good or very good.
co. uk annualreport0809 4 Business review Chief Executive Chief Executives review Whitbread achieved good sales and business together with the previously profit growth in the year.
We have announced 50 million payment into the strengthened our market leading brands pension fund.
The Groups total facilities by adding a record number of Premier currently stand at 1.16 billion in place Inns and Costa stores, whilst significantly until December 2010 when it reduces to improving our restaurant performance.
Decisive action has been taken to At the start of the 2008 09 financial improve our operating efficiency with year, we undertook an operational margins maintained.
Our relentless review to create a more streamlined and customer focus and drive to offer both efficient organisation.
We combined value for money and quality, together the management of our hotels and with our robust financial position, mean restaurants, transferred our food logistics that Whitbread is well placed for these to Kuehne & Nagel and outsourced Leading brands tougher times.
some back office support functions.
This efficiency programme is on track to and a modern, Over the past five years we have deliver cost savings of 25 million by the transformed Whitbread into a focused end of 2010 11.
We have already achieved well-maintained hotel and restaurant business.
Through 7 million of savings in 2008 09, a further continued investment, we have c13million is to be delivered in 2009 10, estate underpin developed and built a modern, wellwith the balance in 2010 11.
The action maintained estate, with leading brands we have taken has enabled the Group to our competitive in value for money sectors.
was a year of strong progress for the advantage.
Group, with out performance across our The Board recommends a final dividend markets, albeit against an increasingly payment of 26.90p per share, making challenging economic backdrop.
a total dividend for the year of 36.55p per share.
The final dividend will be paid Group revenue grew year on year by on 10 July 2009 to shareholders on the 9.7% to 1,334.6 million, driven by register at the close of business on the growth in the number of hotels, 8 May 2009. restaurants and coffee shops and an increase in like for like sales, of 4.9%.
Investing in the growth and At Premier Inn, sales rose 14.0%, with quality of our estate like for like sales up 6.0%, sales at our For the fifth year running we opened restaurants rose 3.2%, with like for more hotel rooms in the UK than any like sales up 4.6%, and Costa sales other operator.
We exceeded our stated increased by 22.0%, with like for like targets and, including our new hotel in sales up 2.0%.
Dubai, delivered a total of 4,553 new rooms in Premier Inn.
More than one Group like for like sales were strong in new hotel was opened on average every the first half followed by a softening as week 55 hotels and the total portfolio we entered the more difficult market in at the year end stood at 573 hotels the autumn.
In the last quarter overall comprising a total of 40,559 rooms.
Group like for like sales were negative, predominantly as a result of lower We invested in increasing our branded occupancy in Premier Inn.
restaurant portfolio, opening 13 new restaurants.
This included six new Table Group profit before tax and exceptional Table restaurants.
We also opened six items on a continuing operations basis further outlets of our newest innovation increased by 9.3% to 229.9 million in freshly prepared food, Taybarns.
2007 08: 210.3 million, with earnings per share diluted increasing by 18.0% We continue to invest in the estate, to 93.0p.
ensuring our hotels and restaurants are maintained to a consistently high At the year end, net debt stood at 623.1 standard.
In the year we upgraded over million compared to 425.8 million at this 7,000 Premier Inn rooms and refurbished time last year.
This increase reflected a total of 48 restaurants, 42 of which continued capital investment in the were Brewers Fayres.
co. uk annualreport0809 5 Costa continued to grow rapidly.
A net new benefits such as our 20 food and total of 186 stores were opened in the beverage package.
UK, bringing its total UK stores to 881.
In its international markets, Costa grew Value for money is at the heart of our joint by a net 110 stores.
These included 23 site model, where guests can experience new joint venture stores and 87 new both great value hotel stays and meals at international franchise stores, bringing affordable prices.
This model continues the total number of overseas stores to to drive superior returns.
restaurant brands has distinctive value for money propositions, such as the two Well positioned for tougher times main meals for 9 at Brewers Fayre.
We This is the first full year that Whitbread continue to drive sales through these has operated as a focused hotel and everyday attractive prices and introduce Our first hotel in Dubai already delivering profit.
restaurant business, with leading brands new menus across Beefeater, Table in each of our markets.
This position, Table and Brewers Fayre.
Meanwhile, at together with the scale and quality of our Taybarns it costs from as little as 5.95 estate, our ongoing judicious investment for a three course meal and we will in the business and commitment to continue to learn from the initial roll-out providing value for money, means that of seven sites in order to plan the next Whitbread is well positioned for the phase at the appropriate time.
At Costa, our unique proposition is the Premier Inn is the clear leader in the quality of our handmade coffee served budget hotel sector.
The cornerstones in a welcoming environment.
Indeed, we of its competitive advantage are a have demonstrated, with independent combination of product quality and value market research, that 7 out of 10 coffee for money, both of which drive higher lovers prefer Costa Coffees cappuccino.
Our We will continue to amplify this message Our coffee is hand crafted by highly skilled continued focus on driving each of these, with an aggressive marketing campaign baristas.
We aim to serve the best tasting will underpin our continued success.
At the same time we coffee every time.
will further improve the food offers at We are transforming the perception of our Costa outlets, for example adding the budget hotel sector, providing quality lunchtime meal offers, such as the customer service at great value prices.
popular panini plus cappuccino for 4.95.
Since our hotel estate was re-branded to Premier Inn we have created a distinct, We remain committed to opportunities leading budget brand and increased and growth in the longer term, although brand awareness through focused we will reduce the pace of our organic marketing towards families, leisure expansion in 2009.
We now plan for customers and business travellers.
We capital expenditure in 2009 10 to be have increased revpar and value for c170 million.
money scores have increased to 81%.
Guest recommend scores have also Our target for Premier Inn during 2009 10 increased to 87%.
is to deliver around 2,000 new rooms in Beefeaters famous flaming grill.
We have a strong Premier Inn is now the UKs favourite pipeline of secured sites and will continue budget hotel brand for business to develop a land bank.
Internationally, travellers and we plan to improve on our first hotel opened in Dubai during this leading position with a strong focus 2008 and we will build on this position, on sales, winning business from 3 and intending to open a further two hotels in 4 star operators and by offering further the Emirates plus one in India.
For the fifth year running we opened more hotel rooms in the UK than any other operator.
co. uk annualreport0809 6 Business review Chief Executive We plan to open around 100 new Costa We have three clear priorities in the year outlets in the UK in 2009 10.
We will ahead: capitalise on our strong Costa brand by focusing on new locations, as well To outperform competitors, with initiatives as areas where we can replace existing such as the widening of Premier Inns operators, such as in supermarkets, distribution network and strategic revenue hospitals and leisure facilities.
We will look to win share also continue to strengthen its position from the full service corporate market and across international markets, adding launch a new campaign for the leisure 100 net new stores in the year ahead.
market, whilst emphasising our superior food and beverage offer.
Our restaurants Current trading and Outlook will continue to deliver strong customer Premier Inn has been impacted by value and Costa will build on the coffee At Costa, our unique proposition is the quality the increasingly harsh economic superiority messaging.
of our handmade coffee served in comfortable environment but continues to outperform environments.
Against tough comparatives, To take advantage of our financial strength its performance since the start of the through disciplined growth.
Last year I financial year has softened further announced ambitious growth plans and whilst remaining within the range of I am pleased that we delivered on those market expectations.
We still have plans to grow, but Restaurants have traded positively in will do so more cautiously in the year line with the second half of the last ahead.
We will continue to develop a land financial year.
bank for future use and will remain alert to the possibility of any shareholder value We have invested in maintaining a high enhancing acquisition opportunity that quality estate.
We have built leading may arise: and brands providing the quality and value for money that todays customers are To achieve the planned efficiencies, by looking for.
Early action has been taken continuing the work carried out last year Just one minute to check in!
Premier Inns to increase efficiencies and reduce to deliver the 25 million cost savings self check in kiosks allow guests to get to costs, and we will continue to do so.
Our balance sheet remains robust and is underpinned both by a strong freehold International progress asset base and our aim to run our current This report concentrates largely on operations at cash flow neutrality.
This operations in the UK.
However, we will put us in a good position to take do recognise the importance of our advantage of any attractive opportunities ability to expand into new territories that may arise from the tougher operating and Im delighted at the progress of environment and lower asset prices.
The first overseas Costa was opened in Dubai We believe that Whitbread is well placed in 1999.
We now have a sizeable to maintain and build upon our strong international estate of in excess of competitive position in the year ahead.
400 Costa store in 24 different markets.
Costa is the second largest international Our strategy leading through change coffee shop brand in the world and the Our ambition holds firm to expand more mature markets are delivering our leadership position in the UK and profit for the Group.
to become number one or two in our chosen overseas markets.
However, we In Premier Inn, weve only just begun.
We need to stay flexible in these turbulent purchased a hotel in Dublin as part of the times.
Tulip Inn acquisition and, last year, opened our first new international hotel in Dubai.
Until such time as we feel the economy This hotel is already delivering profit to the can support our renewed pace of Group, which is an excellent achievement.
expansion, we will deliver a slower pace We look forward to the opening of three of growth for Premier Inn and Costa in the further international Premier Inns, two in UK and agreed international territories.
Dubai and one in India, later this year.
co. uk annualreport0809 7 We are transforming the perception of the budget hotel sector, providing quality customer service at good value prices.
Corporate responsibility the good of the Company and I greatly 2008 09 has been a significant year for admire the way in which our people Whitbread in terms of our approach to are pulling together to deliver the cost corporate responsibility.
We consulted savings I mentioned earlier in this review.
our people and our customers and received a clear mandate to review the At Whitbread we consider recruiting and existing programme of activities and training the best hospitality people to be develop it further into a new businessa key priority.
In these challenging times, wide strategy, which I am pleased to be the opening of new outlets will create over leading personally.
We will continue our 1,000 new jobs during 2009 10.
Both new long history of community engagement and existing team members at Whitbread through charitable programmes such are now able to participate in our as the Costa Foundation and our new innovative apprenticeship programme, the strategic focus covers the key areas of: first and largest employer-led programme of its kind in the hospitality industry.
By environment and property management: halving the time that it takes to achieve Our Costa advertising campaign shows that not all coffee is the same.
people, culture and values: qualifications and combining NVQ study responsible sourcing and supply chain: with Whitbreads induction programme, governance, international and brand we anticipate that 20% of our workforce standards: and will have a nationally recognised health and well-being.
I will be supported by a steering group All employees across our UK hotel and and we are already on the road to restaurants operations are eligible to take embedding corporate responsibility part and, by the end of 2009, we expect into the heart of our business.
We are over 3,000 of our people to have achieved clear about the opportunity that the new NVQs or certificates in adult numeracy strategy brings for the Company.
deliver long-term shareholder value and meet the expectations of our customers In June 2008, I was very honoured to and people.
Further details can be found be awarded a CBE.
I see the award on page 14. as recognition of the performance of Whitbread over the last few years, a Our people performance that wouldnt have been I was delighted when Patrick Dempsey achieved without the people who was appointed to the Board at the work here.
Over the past few years Patrick has led Premier Inn through a period of significant growth and, more recently, successfully integrated the management of Premier Inn with that of our branded restaurants.
We employ 33,000 people at Whitbread Alan Parker, CBE and Id like to thank them all for their hard Chief Executive work and commitment over the last year.
It isnt only companies that are affected 27 April 2009 by these tougher economic times, but many of our people as well.
Sometimes, tough decisions have to be made for www.
co. uk annualreport0809 8 Business review Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants Hotels and Restaurants 2008 09 2007 08 % m m Change Premier Inn revenues 601.5 527.8 14.0 Restaurants revenues 460.1 446.1 3.2 Total revenues 1,061.6 973.9 9.0 Premier Inn like for like sales 6.0 Restaurants like for like sales 4.6 Operating profit pre exceptional 254.9 233.5 9.2 Segmental operating profit post exceptional 240.2 223.5 7.5 2.8% excluding closure periods Hotels and Restaurants performed well 171 million.
Business guests can save Patrick Dempsey, Managing Director, in an increasingly challenging consumer around 40 per night compared to 3 and Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants environment.
Total revenues increased 4 star hotels.
by 9.0% to 1,061.6 million with pre exceptional operating profit up 9.2% Whitbread Hotels year on year to 254.9 million.
Like for like sales were up 5.4%.
Cost and Restaurants efficiencies continued to be a top priority.
continued to Premier Inn continued to outperform the hotel market as we expanded our outperform the network of sites, building on our leading position.
Total sales at Premier Inn market.
Revenue per available room revpar performance grew by 2.8% on a like for like basis.
Like for like sales were up 6.0%.
In Last year Premier Inn opened 4,553 addition to revpar growth, extensions rooms, 1,245 of which were delivered contributed 3.2% with the balance through the acquisition of 21 prime from food and beverage.
location hotels from Mitchells & Butlers plc in exchange for 44 Whitbread Looking back at our like for like sales restaurants.
trends there was a strong first half performance followed by a softening as In the year, we added 13 new hotels on we entered the more challenging periods joint sites where we own and operate both in the autumn.
Like for like sales entered a hotel and a restaurant.
Our joint sites predominantly negative territory from generate higher returns and contribute December.
nearly two thirds of Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants unit operating profit.
Premier Inn is working towards a greener future.
In December 2008 we opened a flagship hotel, located in Tamworth, to trial the best environmental initiatives.
These initiatives include new technologies such as heating from natural energy, recycled water, smart low energy lighting and heat recovery ventilation.
We have also increased the use of sustainable timber and locally sourced materials.
Further details can be found on page 17.
Premier Inns value proposition continues to attract corporate customers, and it Our branded restaurants have delivered is now the leading choice brand among good progress in the year, as we business travellers.
Sales via the Premier continue to attract customers looking Inn Business Account grew by 24% to for fresh and well-prepared food at great www.
Revenues have increased by We now have a total of 372 restaurants 3.2% to 460.1 million 2007 08: 446.1 with 328 on joint sites.
Our restaurants achieved a like 130 Beefeaters, 130 Brewers Fayres, for like covers increase of 7.9% and 105 Table Tables and 7 Taybarns.
We a like for like sales increase of 4.6% have reduced the remaining portfolio of assisted by new menus and improved stand-alone restaurants in the year to 44. environments.
Average like for like spend per head on food is 7.46.
At the beginning of the financial year we committed to maintaining the In an early response to food price quality of our estate by undertaking a inflation, we took steps to re-engineer refurbishment programme across 42 menus with more emphasis on the value Brewers Fayres.
We will continue this in proposition and a focus on lower cost 2009 10 with a refurbishment of a further dishes.
As a result, we have been able c80 restaurants at a cost of around to introduce every day great value offers 10 million.
Our approach to capital such as Brewers Fayres two main meals investment in this area has been very deal for 9. disciplined and will continue to be so.
Premier Inn consistently improving customer satisfaction scores % 100 95 90 85 Pub Restaurant 80 75 70 March July November March July November March 2007 08 2008 09 Likely to stay again Recommendation Overall satisfaction Value for money Source: ORC Guest Recommendation Survey www.
co. uk annualreport0809 Sam, Kings Cross Premier Inn, London.
Vikki Hanspal, Reception Manager, Premier Inn, Sheffield St Marys Gate.
10 Business review Costa Our markets Costa Costa 2008 09 2007 08 % m m Change Revenues 263.8 216.3 22.0 Like for like sales 2.0 Operating profit pre exceptional 22.7 20.8 9.1 Segmental operating profit post exceptional 23.8 19.2 24.0 Costa delivered an encouraging were also opened on major high streets, performance in a difficult market.
in flagship shopping centres and in Total revenues were up by 22.0% at provincial towns.
In addition, in March 263.8 million and total profit up 9.1% 2009 we signed an agreement with at 22.7 million 2007 08: 20.8 million, Hilton Hotel Corporation HHC to supply as customers continued to respond coffee to 60 of its hotels in the UK.
well to our focus on delivering excellent coffee, served by trained baristas in As with all our estate, we continually a warm and welcoming environment.
refresh and refurbish existing stores, John Derkach, Costa saw strong sales growth across and open new units with a distinctive, Managing Director, Costa all its business streams, with sales refreshed look.
There are two key drivers in UK equity stores up by 21.0%, UK for this: to modernise the look and feel wholesale and franchise sales up 14.9% of the brand and to create even more Customers and international sales up 65.9%.
comfortable, relaxing environments for Costa customers making their coffee continued to In the last year, transaction volumes shop experience even better.
Two thirds in the like for like estate increased by of our UK stores have either undergone respond well to 0.8%, whilst food capture remained high this refurbishment or have been opened at 42.5%.
our focus on Our focus for Costa in 2008 09 was to Costa still has significant opportunity delivering excellent continue growing in all markets.
In the to expand, although we will be doing year 296 net new stores were opened, so at a more measured pace.
We will coffee, served by bringing the total of UK and International open around 100 stores in the UK, stores to 1,288. focusing on towns, cities and trade trained baristas.
zones where we are not present or Many of our new UK stores replaced are under-represented.
existing unbranded or lower quality suppliers, or brought Costa to new Costa is now the second-largest markets.
For example, Costa now has international coffee shop brand with the largest coffee shop presence in 407 stores in 24 countries.
The strength stores net were added in the year: 23 of our brand is further demonstrated by new joint venture outlets and 87 new our ability to create partnerships with franchise stores.
We anticipate that other major retailers such as Tesco, around 100 stores will be opened in where Costa now has 72 stores.
co. uk annualreport0809 11 Our markets Hotels Restaurants Coffee shops It is estimated that the total number of As the British economy experiences We estimate that there are currently hotel rooms in the UK is approximately challenging economic times, total visits 3,800 branded coffee shops in the UK.
However, the industry remains to UK restaurants have held up much They delivered revenues of 1.53 billion extremely fragmented with the majority better than anticipated.
The total out-offor the calendar year 2008. of rooms in independently owned and home eating market is set to reach an run hotels.
Within this The branded coffee shop sector is large and diverse market, fast, casual highly competitive in the UK and has For more than 25 years a long-term dining and value concepts continue to experienced rapid growth during the structural shift has been taking place in increase in importance.
2008 was no exception the UK hotel industry, with branded hotel and marked another good year as total supply increasing its share of the market Whilst many experts predicted a decline sector turnover grew by 15%.
from 161,000 rooms in 2000 to 262,000 in restaurant sales during the downturn, rooms in 2009. there has instead been more resilience Competition is intense as consumer from the value restaurant sector as many expectations around product, service Branded budget hotels have been consumers trade down but eat out and value rise.
Competition is also growing at an even faster rate, although nonetheless.
Customers are influenced by increasing from other operators such still only accounting for one in seven of all offers and discounts, but more importantly as pubs and fast food outlets looking hotel rooms in the country.
In the USA and eating out has become an integral part of to cash in on the coffee shop image France, budget hotel rooms account for everyday modern lifestyles.
around 25% and 23% respectively of all Allegra Strategies 8% of adult consumers hotel rooms.
eat more than half their meals outside the Coffee shops have become, in a short home each week and consumers under 25 space of time, a mainstream destination Premier Inn has grown to become the are two and a half times more likely to eat enjoyed by a wide cross section of UKs largest hotel chain with over 40,000 out than those over 45. consumers.
The latest consumer rooms in the UK.
However despite the research reveals that 50% of the adult size and reach of the portfolio, Premier population visits a coffee shop at least Inn accounts for less than 6% of all hotel once a month and nearly a quarter visit rooms in the UK.
a coffee shop at least once per week Allegra Strategies.
Coffee shops are Looking to the year ahead, there is now as important as pubs in terms of evidence that more business travellers meeting venues and have universal are switching their stays to the budget appeal in a multicultural society.
brands in a search for greater value BDRC Hotel guest survey 2009.
Furthermore, as the weakened pound makes trips abroad more expensive and the UK more appealing to overseas visitors, this may stimulate leisure demand.
Todays consumers expect so much more than earlier generations when eating out and their expectations continue to grow with regard to healthy eating, convenience and price.
Branded hotel room growth This chart shows that the budget sector has outperformed all other branded According to Mintel 2009 there is sectors in terms of supply growth 262,000 optimism for future growth deriving 246,000 226,000 230,000 from both high street locations and 205,000 alternatives such as motorway service areas, health clubs and hospitals, for example.
The total branded sector is estimated to increase to over 5,000 100,000 90,000 branded outlets with a combined 79,000 73,000 68,000 40,000 turnover of over 2 billion by 2013.
2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 Budget Mid-market full service Upper Full service fide Luxe Source: BDRC desk research, January 2009, Bedroom figures rounded to nearest 1,000 www.
co. uk annualreport0809 Elise, Costa Coffee, Sutton.
Gennaro Pelliccia, Costa Coffees Master Roaster.
12 Business review Finance Director Finance Directors review Group structure The directors believe that this measure In February 2008 Whitbread announced that provides additional useful information for the divisional management of the Hotels and shareholders on the underlying trends and Restaurants businesses would be combined.
performance of the Group and we intend to At the heart of this restructuring was a desire focus on underlying profit as a measure in to eliminate duplication, save costs and future periods.
better align the management teams to the businesses, particularly, as many hotel and Underlying profits for the year are 228.2 restaurants operated as joint sites.
million compared to 203.8 million last year, and underlying diluted earnings per share As a result Whitbread now only reports two 92.2p compared to 76.4p last year.
trading segments: Hotels and Restaurants and Costa.
The comparatives have been Restatement changed to reflect this structure.
As reported at the half year, the abolition By the end of of Industrial Building Allowances for hotel Revenue buildings enacted in July 2008, IAS 12 2010 11 we will Group revenue from continuing operations Income Taxes has been re-interpreted and in the year increased by 9.7% year on year as a result the deferred tax provisions for reach the targeted to 1,334.6 million.
hotel buildings have been re-appraised to use a methodology better representing the savings of 25 Revenue by business segment manner of recovery of the assets.
This gives rise to a restatement of the deferred tax m 2008 9 2007 8 % Change million announced liability as at 28 February 2008, reducing Hotels & 1,061.6 973.9 9.0% it by 79.3 million: increasing retained Restaurants last year.
earnings by 55.3 million and reducing Costa 263.8 216.3 22.0% goodwill by 24.0 million.
The effect of this restatement on the 2007 08 income Less: 3.6 2.4 statement has been to increase net profit inter-segment from continuing operations by 12.3 million.
Other 12.8 28.9 55.7 % Of this 12.3 million, 6.1 million relates to Revenue from 1,334.6 1,216.7 9.7% pre-exceptional profit.
continuing operations Exceptional items Net exceptional loss amounted to 70.0 million for the year.
This amount Like for like sales grew by 4.9%, with is analysed in more detail in note 7. the remainder of the turnover growth The significant items included within coming from a net increase in outlets, this category are noted below.
predominantly in Premier Inn and Costa.
Organisational review Results In line with the announcement last year Pre-exceptional profit from continuing a number of reorganisation projects have operations for the year is 229.9 million, taken place during the year.
The divisional management of the Hotels Total profit for the year is 90.3 million.
This and Restaurants businesses have been compares to 557.1 million last year which combined.
included the results of David Lloyd Leisure and other businesses for the period of our The in house logistics operation was ownership up to 2 August 2008 of 20.7 outsourced to Kuehne Nagel who set million, and the profit on its disposal as up a new facility and we commenced well as other businesses of 440.8 million.
migration of the activity from May 2008.
From October 2008 the entire network Underlying profits was migrated to Kuehne Nagel who This year we have introduced an in February 2009 commenced taking on underlying profit measure on the face of additional supply chain activities, which the consolidated income statement.
This were previously outsourced to other third is a measure which excludes exceptional party distributors.
items, the impact of the volatile finance costs of IAS19, the finance cost of In February 2009 we completed the ineffective elements of cash flow hedges outsourcing of our transactional accounting and the impact of straight line recognition team to Steria.
of future minimum rental uplifts.
co. uk annualreport0809 13 Further work on the simplification of the Tax As at 26 February 2009 the Group had systems supporting our businesses will take The tax expense of 108.3 million committed revolving credit facilities of another 12 months to complete and by the represents an effective tax rate of 30.2% 1,155 million.
The facilities reduce to end of 2010 11 we will reach the targeted on the continuing businesses before 930 million in December 2010, 855 million savings of 25 million announced last year.
exceptional items, which compares in December 2011 and 455 million in Of this 25 million, 7 million was secured in with 29.0% last year.
The charge December 2012 with the remaining facility 2008 9 and c13 million will be achieved in includes deferred tax and the year on maturing in March 2013.
2009 10 with the balance in 2010 11. year movement in the rate has been predominantly driven by the deferred tax The policy of the Board is to manage its In the year 13.3 million has been charged in associated with share based payments financial position and capital structure in a relation to reorganisation costs, and a further which has been impacted by the fall in the manner which is consistent with Whitbread c10 million will be charged in 2009 10. share price.
maintaining its investment grade status.
We aim to run our current operations on 2.
Premier Inn re-branding Earnings per share a cash flow neutral basis in 2009 10.
As previously announced we have Diluted pre-exceptional earnings per share rebranded our hotels business from for continuing operations increased by Pensions Premier Travel Inn to Premier Inn at a total 18% to 93.0p.
IAS19 Pension Deficit cost of 12.7 million previously estimated As at 26 February 2009 there was an EPS 2008 09 2007 08 at 13.0 million, 7.0 million of which was IAS 19 pension deficit of 233.0 million, spent in the second half of last year.
Continuing Pre 93.0p 78.8p which compares to 33.0 million as at Exceptional Diluted 28 February 2008.
Impairment Exceptional Items 40.2 p 28.2 p The Group has recognised a net impairment Triennial Valuation charge of 16.7 million following an Discontinued Business DLL 242.4p The Group has reached agreement in assessment of the recoverable amount of principle with Whitbread Pension Trustees Total Operations Diluted 52.8p 293.0p each of its property assets.
The assessment Limited on the triennial valuation, which was calculated on the higher of the fair Details can be found in note 13. was based on the position as at 31 March value of the assets less disposal costs or 2008, and the associated recovery plan.
their value in use based on a review of the Dividend This valuation showed a deficit on a funding discounted cash flows generated by the A final dividend of 26.90p, will, subject to basis of 388 million.
The deficit on this business undertaken at each property.
approval at the AGM, be paid on 10 July basis uses assumptions which are more 2009 to all shareholders on the register conservative than under the requirements 4.
Exchange transaction at the close of business on 8 May 2009. of IAS19 and therefore produce a greater On 19 September 2008 the Group acquired The total dividend for the year at 36.55p deficit.
The recovery plan will provide for 21 hotels, which traded under the Express is up by 1.5%.
The deficit by Holiday Inn brand from Mitchells & Butlers contribution payments, which will start plc in exchange for 44 Whitbread branded Capital expenditure and business from August 2011, will be 55 million each restaurants.
The disposal of the branded acquisitions year until 2013, then 65 million in 2014 restaurants at a fair value of 78 million Total Group cash capital expenditure and 2015, 70 million in 2016 and 80 generated a profit on disposal of 6.4 million.
on property, plant and equipment during million in 2017 and 2018.
In addition the the year was 275.7 million with Hotels Group has agreed to grant security over 5.
Tax and Restaurants spend amounting to 150 million of its property assets in favour The deferred tax charge of 44.1 million 241.5 million, Costa 30.1 million and of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited arises as a result of the enactment by Corporate 4.1 million.
Capital expenditure and to update and renew the financial the UK Government in July 2008 of the is split between acquisition expenditure, covenant which has been in place since abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances which includes the acquisition and 2003.
All these arrangements are subject for hotel buildings.
development of properties and maintenance to appropriate consents, due diligence and expenditure.
In addition 30.4 million final documentation.
Interest was spent on business acquisitions and Pre-exceptional net interest costs of 17.1 million on international investments.
25.1 million were 28.1% more than last year.
The weighted average net debt in Financing the year was 531.0 million in compared Net debt at the full year was 623.1 million, to 448.9 million last year.
compared to 425.8 million last year.
The significant non-trading items resulting in Christopher Rogers Included in interest costs was a pension the increase were business acquisitions Finance Director credit of 5.5 million 2007 08 7.0 million.
of 30.4 million, the cost of the share buy This represents the difference between the back programme of 20.0 million and a 27 April 2009 expected return on scheme assets and the 50.0 million payment into the pension interest cost of the scheme liabilities.
In scheme, as agreed with Whitbread Pension 2009 10 this is expected to be a pension Trustees Limited in April 2003. cost of 15.5 million.
co. uk annualreport0809 Jackie, Eureka Park Beefeater, Ashford, Kent.
Simon Preston, Kitchen Manager, Eureka Park Beefeater, Ashford, Kent.
14 Business review Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility The role of business in reducing its negative impacts and finding ways to have far greater positive impacts has never been more important.
Future strategy Performance and activities in 2008 09 Whilst we have long believed that Whilst we have developed a new corporate responsibility is about strategy, there was still much activity integrity, a core Whitbread value, and in the corporate responsibility field in Louise Smalley, Group Human that behaving responsibly also makes 2008 09.
In this report we report on Resources Director sound business sense, we decided in some of the highlights.
2008 that it was time to reinvigorate our approach.
To that end we worked with Environment By harnessing  to develop a We believe that businesses have a new corporate responsibility strategy.
This responsibility to actively manage and the power of new strategy was approved by the Board minimise the impact they have on the in March 2009 and we will be working environment.
Our approach is guided by our brands, the hard to implement it in the year ahead.
our energy, environment and sustainable development policies, which govern the energy of our team Vision and ambition way we do business.
At Whitbread, we believe that heightened members and the attention and expectations of business The Groups main environmental impacts offer an opportunity to create a virtuous come from the use of energy and engagement of circle between doing the right thing water in our buildings and from waste and generating long-term value for our associated with the preparation of food our guests, we can shareholders.
By harnessing the power and drink in our outlets.
Our efforts are of our brands, the energy of our team concentrated on: create meaningful members and the engagement of our guests, we can create meaningful change.
Measuring, monitoring and reducing our change.
energy and water consumption: Our goals Reducing the volume of waste going to We have set a number of goals in each of landfill: and the following areas: Trialling new technologies and implementing those that are beneficial.
Environmental and property management: Some of the main initiatives employed People, culture and values: during the last financial year were: Responsible sourcing and supply chain: Governance, international and brand Our green hotel at Tamworth further Guest standards: and details can be found on page 17 : engagement Health and well-being.
Greywater technology, which uses recycled water to flush hotel toilets: These goals are split between those Management of our climate change Social & Brand that we intend to achieve within two impacts to measure and plan the environmental leadership impact years and those that we intend to reduction of the Groups greenhouse gas achieve within five years.
emissions: Renewable energy to reduce our use of Measurement and reporting fossil-fuel generated electricity: Team A Corporate Responsibility Steering Low energy lighting installation: and commitment Group, chaired by Alan Parker, has Increased recycling to divert waste from been established to be responsible for landfill.
the execution of this strategy.
Progress We have an opportunity to create a against the goals must be measurable We produce a detailed Environment virtuous circle between doing the right and new targets will be added to the Report, which can be found on the thing and generating long-term value for our shareholders.
WINcard to ensure that corporate corporate responsibility section of our responsibility is truly embedded in our website at www.
co. uk annualreport0809 15 Consumer issues Employee involvement Our focus areas continue to include food We are committed to listening to safety, healthier lifestyles, responsible and involving our employees and drinking, listening to customer needs believe that open and regular twoand developing mutually beneficial way communication at all levels is relationships with suppliers.
More details an essential part of the management and our policies will be available in the process.
All employees are asked their Corporate Responsibility Report to be opinions via an annual Your Say survey published on our website later in the year.
and specific plans are put in place to address feedback from these surveys.
Health and safety We recognise the significance of Employee well-being effectively managing health and safety Because the well-being of our and ensuring the risks associated with employees is extremely important to Supply chain operating our business are adequately us, all employees and their immediate We recognise that our responsibilities controlled.
We are committed to families are provided with access to extend to our supply chain.
Costa was providing a safe, secure and healthy the Whitbread Employee Assistance the first UK coffee shop chain to source environment for both guests and Programme.
This offers a round-thecoffee from the Rainforest Alliance and employees.
This commitment can be clock, confidential counselling service.
will, by the end of the current financial evidenced in the following areas: year, have 60% of its coffee Rainforest Flexible working Alliance certified.
Health and safety is a key measure on We are developing flexible employment the WINcard: packages as an incentive to attract and All outlets receive a detailed retain good people and acknowledge independent health and safety and that flexible working opportunities food safety audit: benefit everyone employers, The Board monitors health and safety employees and their families.
performance on a quarterly basis: Health and safety policies and Code of Conduct procedures and a risk management The Groups Code of Conduct is widely system are in place to effectively briefed to employees on a regular basis control and mitigate existing and and sets out the high standards of integrity emerging risks: expected from our people.
Health and safety workshops are available for management level Community employees and all outlets have access Whitbread has been actively involved in to health and safety training courses: the community for many years.
Today, and our community investment programme All outlets have suitable and sufficient focuses on: fire risk assessments undertaken and regularly reviewed.
providing financial and in-kind support to employees and the charities close People to their hearts: We are committed to delivering investing in countries and programmes and providing opportunities communities that are an integral part that help create attractive and rewarding of Whitbreads business: and places to work and help Whitbread building strong and mutually beneficial become the Employer of Choice.
With more than 33,000 employees, We support our people in their mainly in the UK, we have a range volunteering and fundraising activities of policies covering such issues as through the match-funding and payroll diversity, employee well-being and equal giving schemes and, with 16% of opportunities.
employees donating to their favourite good causes, Whitbread has been Focus on training recognised with a Gold Award as part of We recognise that it is our people who hold the key to success and that it is essential we create Great emphasis is placed on improving the Governments Payroll Giving Quality a great environment for them to work in.
the skills, expertise and performance Mark scheme.
of employees through a continuous programme of training and development.
Training programmes address skills development across all levels.
co. uk annualreport0809 Annie, Gatwick Premier Inn.
Laura, Premier Inn, Dover West.
16 Business review Corporate responsibility The Costa Foundation The Costa Foundation was set up in 2006 to give something back to coffee-growing communities by providing children with access to education.
Costa recognises that coffee farmers are Current projects include: an integral part of the brands success La Esperanza Primary School in and the Foundations focus on education Chonte Grande, Colombia where is in direct response to requests from seven new classrooms, four science coffee growing communities.
laboratories, a cafeteria, library and playground will be provided for 228 The work of the Foundation is funded children and 13 teachers.
Estimated through a direct annual donation from completion October 2009.
Costa, match-funding by the Whitbread Charitable Trust, store fundraising Paraiso fide Changuena High School activities and individual team members in Puntarenas, Costa Rica will have fundraising.
Every penny donated to the two new classrooms, new sanitation, Costa Foundation is spent directly on electricity and computers provided for Children from Las Brisas primary school, school building projects as all running 70 children and two teachers.
Estimated Yupiltepeque, Guatemala costs for the Foundation are funded by completion July 2009.
This ensures Costa is able to maximise funds to the benefit of coffeeDimtu Hambela High School, growing communities.
Hambela Warana, Ethiopia where an eight-classroom school with new As a result, in addition to the four new sanitation will give high school education schools built in Colombia, Uganda and for 970 children from 29 teachers for the Ethiopia in 2007, a further seven new very first time.
Estimated completion projects were started during 2008 in November 2009.
Colombia, Uganda, Ethiopia, Guatemala and Costa Rica and will all be completed Santa Teresa High School, Tucuru, during 2009.
Guatemala is providing six classrooms, new sanitation and a community centre This means that by 2010 the Costa for 240 children and eight teachers.
Foundation will have: This will be Tucurus first ever access Mushasha primary school, Ntungamo, Uganda Built 11 new schools with a total of 56 to a high school education.
Estimated fully furnished classrooms: completion August 2009.
Provided jobs for 123 teachers: and, most importantly Yupiltepeque Region, Guatemala Given access to education to more has seen three new schools built at than 4,500 children a year Las Brisas, Pueblo Viejo and El Sillon, providing nearly 800 children and The Costa Foundation sets out to provide their teachers with a total of seven the best possible learning environment new classrooms, new sanitation and within its benefiting communities and community centre space.
Estimated as a result has provided fresh water, completion May 2009. new sanitation, electricity, kindergarten facilities, child nutrition programmes and Mushasha Primary School, has part-funded a social worker for adult Ntungamo, Uganda was a successful training where required.
All new schools Costa Foundation project carried out are fully furnished to local education in 2007 08 but, as a result of increased authority standards.
numbers of pupils, the school is being provided with an additional two classrooms and a Headmasters office.
Further information can be found on www.
co. uk annualreport0809 17 Premier Inn, Tamworth This site is a test-bed for us to trial the best green technologies currently available to see which are viable for future hotel projects.
Our new Premier Inn in Tamworth Building that breathes The combination of building materials opened in December 2008 and brings Ventilation with heat recovery delivers and low carbon technologies used at together the very best environmental fresh warm air to rooms and still allows Tamworth is not matched anywhere else initiatives to reduce wastage and guests to control the temperature in their in the UK.
This means we use less energy to reduce energy consumption by up deliver cleaner air to rooms, so guests can Sustainable materials including timber to 80%.
relax in a more comfortable environment.
and recycled plasterboard: Solar power: Locally sourced Concrete reduction Natural insulation reducing heat loss The most sustainable, local and effective The hotel was designed to reduce the by 60%: materials have been specially selected use of concrete or cement wherever Low energy lighting and movement and are ecologically friendly, but still possible.
Softwood sustainable timber detectors providing a 80% saving deliver very high performance.
Where reduces the carbon within the building, against standard lighting methods: concrete has to be used, low carbon saving on 100 tonnes of concrete.
Use of the earths natural energy to cement has been sourced from a heat and cool the hotel: and local supplier.
Use of recycled water and rainwater to flush toilets saving 20% of the hotels water usage.
Solar panels Natural sheeps wool insulation Heat recovery Rainwater harvesting Ground source heat pump Locally sourced sustainable timber Energy efficient room temperature control Ground source LED low energy lighting heat probe up to 130m Deep Grey water recycling www.
co. uk annualreport0809 18 Business review Key performance indicators Risks and uncertainties Key performance indicators We use a balanced scorecard, called the Guest measures Our WINcard WINcard to measure our performance Brand standards against key indicators.
The WINcard is All our businesses are audited regularly provides a designed to ensure that we are meeting against set criteria so that we keep our objectives to our stakeholder groups: delivering a consistently high standard common set of of service.
investors: objectives and guests: and Guest recommendation our people.
We encourage our guests to provide helps all our people feedback on their experience and We believe that by taking care of our measure their level of satisfaction.
understand how people, they will take care of the guests and ensure that they have a great Like for like sales growth we are performing.
experience and want to return.
This drives This measures changes in how much our up sales and profits for our investors.
guests spend with us on a comparable basis.
The WINcard is fundamental to the way in which we do business.
It provides People measures a common set of measures in every Team turnover hotel, restaurant and coffee store and This measures how many people leave the right through the organisation up to business and indicates how happy and 2008 09 WINcard results Board level.
At each Management motivated our people are in their jobs.
Board meeting, the relevant WINcard is reviewed and discussed.
Appropriate Health and safety Brand expansion actions are agreed to reverse any This measures how well we look after negative trends on the WINcard.
both our people and our guests.
ROCE growth The WINcard is essential to the decisionHow does the WINcard work?
Profit growth making process and provides a key The WINcard uses a traffic light system to method of incentivising our people.
The show, at a glance, how we are performing.
Brand standards performance against these financial and Generally, red means that performance is non-financial measures determines levels worse than the previous year and below Guest recommendation of bonus at all levels of the organisation.
Amber means that performance is better than the previous year, but still Like for like sales growth In 2008 09 the WINcard was made up of: below budget.
Green shows that the performance is better than the previous Team turnover Investor measures year and has met or exceeded budget.
Brand expansion The results for 2008 09 are shown on Health and safety This tracks the rate at which we are the left.
The year ahead ROCE growth The WINcard is about continuous This measures the effectiveness of our improvement and setting realistic targets.
capital expenditure decisions to ensure Some new measures will be introduced that we continue to spend our investors for 2009 10 to reflect the current money wisely.
economic conditions and our commitment to corporate responsibility.
The new Profit Growth corporate responsibility measures will not This is the measure that ultimately shows be bonusable in the first year.
whether we are delivering the returns our investors are entitled to expect.
co. uk annualreport0809 19 Risks and uncertainties The table below provides a summary of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the plans in place to mitigate such risks.
A more detailed explanation of the risks and uncertainties facing Whitbread, together with further information on the mitigation plans in place can be found on pages 4 and 5 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
Risks Mitigation plans Shareholder value risk Failure to meet profit expectations Annual budget, monthly management reports, forecasting process, quarterly trading updates and investor relations programme Financial risks Breach of loan facility or failure to obtain Signed facility agreements refinancing of existing funds Ongoing covenant reviews and stress testing Banking relationships Financial reporting error Expertise in finance team and segregation of duties Audit Committee and external auditor review Significant increase in pension Expertise on the Investment Committee and oversight by the Trustee Board fund deficit Regular reviews by the Whitbread Board Failure of a third-party to a Credit control checks significant contract privity risk Auditing and monitoring of third parties Loss arising from lack of controls Involvement of legal and corporate finance teams in international expansion Approval of appropriate project teams by senior management Strategic risks Loss of market share Monitoring performance and appropriate action plans Failure to deliver growth targets Development resource and programmes in place to deliver growth targets Significant continuation of the Monthly review of significant indicators and appropriate action plans economic downturn Failure to recruit and retain Benchmarking of remuneration packages key employees Analysis of employee turnover Talent review process Operational risks Health and safety failure Rigorous training and audit processes and Board level monitoring Unacceptable food quality Internal and external monitoring of food provenance and quality issues Project plan and management Outsourcing of finance planning Monitoring visits to outsource companies and HR systems Systems business continuity plan in place Failure of key IT systems for a sustained period Supply chain business continuity plan in place Major failure of supply chain www.
co. uk annualreport0809 20 Board of directors Board of directors The Board of directors consists of the Chairman, three executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Information on changes to the Board during the year can be found in the summary directors report on page 27.
Christopher Rogers Position: Chairman since August 2005 Position: Chief Executive Position: Finance Director Appointment to the board: May 2005 since June 2004 Appointment to the board: May 2005 Age: 62 Appointment to the board: May 2000 Age: 49 Committee membership: Age: 62 External appointments: Nomination Committee Chairman Committee membership: HMV Group plc Non-executive director Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Previous experience: Qualified as External appointments: External appointments: an accountant with Price Waterhouse Reed Elsevier PLC and NV British Hospitality Association Director, before joining Kingfisher plc in 1988.
Chairman from 1 June 2009, VisitBritain Director, University of Subsequent roles included Group Bunzl plc Chairman until 30 June 2009, Surrey Visiting Professor, World Travel Financial Controller at Kingfisher plc, SVG Capital plc Director until 6 May 2009 & Tourism Council Director, Jumeirah Finance Director, and then Commercial Previous experience: Director of Group LLC Non-executive director Director, at Comet Group plc before The Boston Consulting Group Inc Previous experience: Managing becoming Finance Director at from 1977 to 1986.
Director, and then Director of Crest Hotels Europe, based Woolworths Group plc.
Chief Executive of Tootal Group PLC.
in Frankfurt and Senior Vice-President Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Chairman of Holiday Inn Europe, Middle East and 6.
Patrick Dempsey of Mlnlycke Healthcare UK Limited.
He joined Also held non-executive directorships Whitbread in 1992 as Managing Director Position: Managing Director, Whitbread at Geest PLC, Marks & Spencer Group of Whitbread Hotel Company.
Hotels and Restaurants plc, National Westminster Bank Plc Appointment to the board: January 2009 and Powergen plc.
Wendy Becker Age: 50 External appointments: 4.
Charles Gurassa Position: Independent Hospitality Action non-executive director Previous experience: Joined Whitbread Position: Independent Appointment to the board: in 2004 and has been in the hotel and non-executive director January 2008 restaurant business for the past thirty Appointment to the board: July 2000 Age: 43 years.
Previously he was with Forte Hotels Age: 53 Committee membership: Audit for twenty years, before joining Compass Committee membership: Remuneration Committee, Remuneration Committee Group as CEO of Restaurant Associates.
Committee Chairman, Nomination External appointments: In 2005, he became Managing Director Committee, Audit Committee Working Families Trustee, of Premier Inn.
External appointments: TalkTalk Managing Director LOVEFilm International Chairman, Previous experience: Partner of 9.
Simon Melliss Mobileserv UK Co. Limited Chairman, McKinsey & Company for 14 years, WP Roaming II S. A.
Chairman, Brand Manager of Procter & Gamble, Position: Independent 7 Days Limited Chairman, National Boston Consulting Group non-executive director Trust Enterprises Limited Chairman, Appointment to the board: April 2007 Whizz-kidz Trading Limited Chairman 8.
Stephen Williams Age: 56 Previous experience: Chief Executive Committee membership: of Thomson Travel Group and a director Position: Senior Independent Audit Committee Chairman of TUI AG.
Previously Chairman of Virgin non-executive director External appointments: Mobile Holdings UK plc and Worldwide Appointment to the board: April 2008 Hammerson plc Group Finance Director Excellerated Leasing Limited.
Age: 61 Member of the Committee of Management Committee membership: of Hermes Property Unit Trust 7.
Philip Clarke Remuneration Committee, Nomination Previous experience: Having trained Committee as an accountant he has held a number Position: Independent External appointments: of financial roles at Reed International non-executive director Unilever PLC and NV General Counsel PLC and Sketchley PLC, before joining Appointment to the board: January 2006 and Chief Legal Officer, Arriva PLC Hammerson in 1991 where he became Age: 49 Senior Independent Director Group Finance Director in 1995.
Committee membership: Remuneration Previous experience: Trained as Has previously held a non-executive Committee a solicitor at Slaughter and May before directorship at Associated British Ports External appointments: joining the legal department of Imperial Holdings PLC.
Tesco PLC Director Chemical Industries PLC.
He then joined Previous experience: Has ten years Unilever PLC in 1986, becoming General board experience gained at Tesco where Counsel in 1993. he has responsibility for operations in ten countries across Asia and Europe.
He also is leader of the Information Technology and Business Process functions www.
co. uk annualreport0809 22 Senior management Summary remuneration report Senior management This table shows the membership of the Executive WHR Costa Executive Committee, the Whitbread Committee Management Management Hotels and Restaurants WHR Board Board Management Board and the Costa Management Board.
The biographical Board and Alan Parker Mark Anderson Clive Bentley details of Alan Parker, Christopher committee Simon Barratt Colin Elliot Russell Fairhurst Rogers and Patrick Dempsey are shown members Patrick Dempsey Paul Flaum Helen Hardy on the previous page.
The biographical John Derkach Maria Horn Adrian Johnson details of the other members of the Christopher Rogers Andrew Pellington Andrew Marshall Executive Committee, Simon Barratt, Louise Smalley Gerard Tempest Matthew Price John Derkach and Louise Smalley are Ben Wishart Jim Slater shown below the table.
The members of the Executive Committee are also members of both Management Boards, although John Derkach is not a member of the WHR Management Board and Patrick Dempsey is not a member of the Costa Management Board.
John Derkach Louise Smalley Simon Barratt Position: Managing Director, Costa Position: Group Human Position: General Counsel Age: 52 Resources Director Age: 49 At Whitbread: Joined Whitbread in 1995 Age: 41 At Whitbread: Joined the Group in as Marketing Director of Whitbread Beer At Whitbread: Joined Whitbread in 1991 as Group Legal Adviser, before Company, before becoming Managing 1995 as HR Projects Manager of Pizza becoming Company Secretary and Group Director of Beefeater in 1999.
Served as HR Director of Legal Affairs Director in 1997.
Has had CEO of Pizza Hut UK in 2002 and David Lloyd Leisure and then Whitbread accountability for group development Managing Director of Costa in 2006.
Restaurants before becoming Group and was a director of Whitbread Pension Previous Experience: Spent three years Human Resources Director in 2007.
Trustees Limited between 1997 and 2009. at Procter & Gamble and ten years with Previous Experience: Spent five Previous experience: Trained as a Pepsi Cola International in the roles of years working as a human resources solicitor at Slaughter and May and UK Marketing Manager, UK Operations professional in the oil industry with then held positions in the legal teams Director, Northern Europe Marketing BP and Esso Petroleum.
at Rio Tinto and Heron prior to joining Director and Area Vice President for Whitbread.
co. uk annualreport0809 23 Summary remuneration report The full remuneration report is set out on pages 10 to 18 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
This summary report states Whitbreads remuneration policy and the aggregate directors remuneration for 2008 09.
Whitbread is a people business and its success is dependent on the skills and enthusiasm of the people who work in our businesses.
It is important that our employees are appropriately incentivised and rewarded to continue to deliver outstanding service to our customers and value to our shareholders.
This year we have restructured the remuneration report with the intention of making it more user-friendly and I hope that you will find this new structure helpful.
Immediately below this introduction you will find a summary of key facts and information about Whitbreads remuneration policy and the TSR graph.
This is then followed by a section of questions and answers.
The usual tables outlining directors remuneration, pension arrangements and share scheme participation are in the full remuneration report.
In view of the economic environment we have made some changes to our remuneration policy for 2009.
The highlights are listed below: Senior executives, including the executive directors, will not receive a salary increase in 2009: The level of bonus executive directors can earn this year has been reduced.
The on-target bonus has decreased from 87.5% to 77% of salary and the maximum bonus has decreased from 175% to 167% of salary: The range at which bonus is payable compared to budgeted profit has been widened and the level of performance for maximum payment has been significantly stretched above budget: The EPS targets for the 2009 LTIP awards have been set without reference to the Retail Price Index and at levels that require considerable growth over our 2009 10 budget: and The Committee has established a shareholding guideline for senior executives.
It believes that key executives within Whitbread should have a significant level of shareholding to align them with the Groups shareholders.
Executive directors will be required to build a shareholding of at least 100% of salary within five years and senior executives at least 50% of salary.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee Charles Gurassa Chairman Anthony Habgood Wendy Becker Philip Clarke Stephen Williams Simon Barratt Secretary External advisers Hewitt New Bridge Street Towers Perrin Internal advisers Louise Smalley Group HR Director Remuneration policy To pay our people fairly in a manner that supports our corporate goals, incentivises them to achieve those goals and is responsible having regard to the interests of all the Groups stakeholders Terms of reference Available at www.
co. uk annualreport0809 24 Summary remuneration report Summary remuneration report continued Questions and answers TSR Graph this is a graph showing the total shareholder return with dividends In this section, Charles Gurassa reinvested in the holdings of the Companys shares against a hypothetical holding of answers questions on how shares in the FTSE 100 Index over a five-year period.
The FTSE 100 Index has been remuneration is managed at Whitbread.
chosen because Whitbread has been a member of the index during this period.
Total shareholder return Does Whitbreads Remuneration Source: Datastream Committee fully meet the 300 requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance?
250 Yes, the membership of the Committee is compliant with the Combined Code.
200 The Combined Code which is available 150 at www.
uk sets out the duties and powers which companies are expected to delegate to their remuneration 100 committees.
Whitbreads Committee has terms of reference available at 50 www.
co. uk or by requesting a copy in writing from the General Counsels 0 office which set out its duties and powers 4 Mar 04 3 Mar 05 2 Mar 06 1 Mar 07 28 Feb 08 26 Feb 09 and these terms of reference comply with This graph looks at the value, by 26 February 2009, of 100 invested in Whitbread PLC on 4 March 2004 the Combined Code.
compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index based on 30 trading day average values.
Whitbread PLC FTSE 100 Index The Committee met four times in 2008 09 and a summary of the issues considered at those meetings is available What are the main principles of The majority of Whitbreads employees in the corporate governance report on Whitbreads remuneration policy?
will not receive a salary increase this year.
page 9 of the Directors Report and It is important that our senior executives Accounts.
The attendance of individual have the skills, expertise, enthusiasm and Are executives entitled to other members of the Committee at meetings drive to achieve the Groups objectives benefits?
is shown on page 7 of the Directors and to enhance shareholder value.
All executives are entitled to life Report and Accounts.
Our job is to ensure that the overall assurance and private health cover.
Nonremuneration package is sufficiently core benefits, for which cash alternatives Who provides advice to the competitive to attract, retain and motivate are available, are family health cover and Committee?
executives with the necessary attributes.
The Committee has appointed independent remuneration consultants We are determined to ensure that the What are the pension arrangements Hewitt New Bridge Street and Towers interests of executives and shareholders for executive directors?
Perrin to provide external advice.
Internal are aligned and we recognise the The final salary section of the Whitbread advice is received from the Group importance of having a significant Group Pension Fund was closed to Human Resources Director, Louise proportion of an executives remuneration new entrants, including directors, on Smalley.
Simon Barratt, General Counsel, being linked to performance as well as 31 December 2001.
New recruits since acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the importance of the balance between that date are offered the opportunity to short and long-term rewards.
participate in the defined contribution The Whitbread Group receives advice on section of the scheme at a rate.
the implementation of the Committees How are base salaries determined?
decisions and recommendations from We review base salaries on an annual Our policy is to pay a company Hewitt New Bridge Street, Towers Perrin basis and consider a number of factors, contribution of 25% of salary for and Slaughter and May.
Neither Hewitt including market data.
When awarding executive directors, with these New Bridge Street or Towers Perrin a base salary increase to an executive contributions being increased by a provide other services to the Whitbread director, we take into account the further 2.5% of salary after each of five Group, although a different part of the personal performance of the director and ten years service.
Executives are Hewitt group provides services to the measured against agreed objectives given the option of receiving a monthly Companys pension fund.
Slaughter as well as the trading circumstances amount in cash less an amount equal and May provides legal services to the across the whole Group.
The Committee to the employers national insurance Whitbread Group.
has decided to not award any salary payable on the amount instead of the increases to senior executives in 2009 10. company pension contribution.
co. uk annualreport0809 25 Alan Parker opted out of the pension A straight line will operate between the The LTIP, by contrast, is all about the scheme on 31 May 2005 and Christopher above levels of performance.
It rewards executives if earnings Rogers opted out of the defined will be the minimum target at which and relative total shareholder return over contribution scheme on 31 March 2006. awards will be earned, targeted level a three-year period exceeds specified Patrick Dempsey participates in the of performance will be consistent with hurdles.
Executive directors will be defined contribution scheme.
Full details budgeted performance and stretch will granted awards in 2009 10 as follows: of the directors pension entitlements, be significantly above budget.
including cash supplements, can be Alan Parker 125% found on page 15 of the Directors Report As well as the profit targets explained Patrick Dempsey 100% and Accounts.
above the Group, together with each Christopher Rogers 100% business, has a financial target.
The What is the Leadership Group failure to meet this target would result However, the shares will normally only Incentive Scheme LGIS ?
in the reduction of cash and deferred be transferred into the executives The LGIS, which was implemented in shares payable as outlined above being name in the event that the executive 2004 05, is a bonus scheme which reduced by 25%.
remains a Whitbread employee and that applies to over 30 executives.
The performance conditions are met over scheme is intended to provide a clear Targets for future financial years will be a three-year performance period.
link between performance and reward determined by the Committee at, or near in order to motivate key executives.
It to, the beginning of each financial year.
How are the LTIP performance promotes alignment with shareholders by conditions selected and what are they?
providing an emphasis on equity rewards The Committee assesses the profit The Committee selects conditions that it and promotes retention by deferring a results at the end of each financial believes will closely align the interests of significant part of the awards.
year, as well as the performance of executives to those of shareholders.
each executive director against preSo, how does the LGIS work?
determined targets before agreeing the For awards made in 2009, as was the At the beginning of each financial awards, which are then independently case for grants made in 2007 and 2008, year profit targets are set for the verified by Hewitt New Bridge Street.
two performance conditions have been Group and its businesses.
Each condition will apply to on the performance achieved during Whitbread uses the WINcard to half of the awards.
The two conditions the year, awards of cash and deferred manage its businesses, but to what are relative total shareholder return TSR shares may be made at the end of the extent are executives incentivised and earnings per share EPS growth as year.
The cash element of the bonus based on WINcard measures?
shown on page 26. is payable immediately.
The deferred Profit growth, a key WINcard measure, shares will normally be transferred into is the basis for awards made under The measurement of relative TSR will the executives name three years after the LGIS.
Executives may also earn a compare Whitbreads TSR with that of a the award date as long as the executive maximum cash bonus of 20% of base comparator group of companies over the remains employed by the Group during salary for meeting other WINcard targets.
period from 27 February 2009 to 1 March the three-year period.
These targets apply to all management 2012.
Averaging will take place before throughout the Company.
They are set the start and end of the performance The threshold, target and stretch bonus at the beginning of the financial year period to reduce the impact of short-term potential has been reduced for the 2009 10 and, for directors, they are reviewed and share price fluctuations.
The Committee financial year and the level of stretch above approved by the Committee after the has decided that the most appropriate budget has been significantly increased.
Further details on the WINcard comparator group for 2009 awards is the The levels of cash and deferred shares can be found on page 18.
FTSE 51-150 excluding certain sectors: expressed as percentages of base asset managers, consumer finance, salaries that can be awarded at different Is the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP equity investment instruments, investment levels of performance will be as follows: another incentive scheme?
services, life insurance, non-life insurance, Yes, although it serves to drive future mining, oil & gas and speciality finance.
Below threshold Nil performance and retention rather than At threshold 2% cash to reward past performance.
The Committee has also reviewed the 4% deferred EPS targets for 2009 awards in the shares The LGIS rewards executives for their light of the economic conditions and On target 20% cash performance at the end of a successful Whitbreads forecast performance.
42% deferred year, with an immediate cash bonus and The EPS target is set out on page 26. shares an award of deferred shares.
Once those Stretch or above 53% cash deferred shares have been awarded, they The results of the TSR performance maximum payable 94% deferred will be transferred to the executive as long condition test are produced for the shares as they remain a Whitbread employee.
Committee by Hewitt New Bridge www.
co. uk annualreport0809 26 Summary remuneration report Summary directors report The awards granted in 2009 will vest as follows: TSR Condition Position at which the Company is ranked Proportion of award vesting to executive Upper quartile and above Full vesting of half the award Between median and upper quartile Pro rata on a straight line between quarter and full vesting of half the award Median Quarter of half the award vests Below Median This half of the award does not vest EPS Condition 2011 12 EPS: required annual percentage growth Proportion of award vesting to executive above Whitbreads 2009 10 budgeted EPS 14.6% or above Full vesting of half the award Between 6.3% and 14.6% Pro rata on a straight line between quarter 6.3% Quarter of half the award vests Below 6.3% This half of the award does not vest Street Consultants LLP, while the EPS executives.
Executive directors are Signed and approved on behalf calculations are verified by the Companys required to build and hold a shareholding of the Board auditor Ernst & Young LLP.
The results are equal to 100% of their salary within five considered by the Committee before the years and other senior executives 50% vesting level is confirmed.
Have any LTIP awards vested in 2009?
Directors emoluments for 2008 09 The awards made in 2006 were subject The directors aggregate emoluments to a relative TSR performance condition.
In addition, the aggregate Charles Gurassa full, resulting in a vesting level of 100%.
value of awards made to directors Chairman, Remuneration Committee The comparator group comprised 19 under the Long Term Incentive Plan travel and leisure companies including was 1,739,575 2007 08: 1,263,750.
27 April 2009 Whitbread at the time of measurement The aggregate amount of gains made and Whitbread was ranked third, which by directors on the exercise of share is in the upper quartile.
The awards options during the year was nil 2007 08: vested on 1 March 2009, after the end 900,503 and the aggregate market of the financial year and will be reflected value of awards exercised by directors in the LTIP table in next years full under long term incentive schemes renumeration report.
The aggregate amount of Are executive directors required to contributions paid by the Company to hold Whitbread shares?
money purchase pension schemes in This year we have introduced share respect of the directors was 16,666 ownership guidelines for senior 2007 08: nil.
co. uk annualreport0809 27 Summary directors report The full directors report and full corporate governance report are set out in the Directors Report and Accounts, which can be found on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Companys registrar on the address shown on page 34.
Principal activities and review Subject to approval at the Annual B non-cumulative preference shares of of business General Meeting, the final dividend 1 penny each representing 0.83% of The principal activity of the Group is will be payable on 10 July 2009 to the total share capital and 224 million the operation of hotels, restaurants and shareholders on the register at the close C non-cumulative preference shares of coffee shops.
These operations are of business on 8 May 2009.
1 penny each representing 0.70% of the largely carrried out in the UK, although total share capital.
Premier Inn operates one hotel in Board of directors Ireland and another in Dubai via a joint The directors at the date of this report are Details of the issued share capital can venture.
Costa operates coffee shops listed on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual be found in note 31 to the accounts.
in 24 international markets through joint Review.
All except for Patrick Dempsey ventures or on a franchise basis.
Details and Stephen Williams served throughout Holders of ordinary shares are entitled of the Groups activities, developments the year.
Patrick Dempsey joined the to attend and speak at general meetings and performance for the year, the main Board on 1 January 2009.
Stephen of the Company, to appoint one or more trends and factors likely to affect its Williams joined the Board on 27 April 2008 proxies and, if they are corporations, future development and performance and and became Senior Independent Director corporate representatives to attend information required by the Companies on 1 October 2008.
Rod Kent resigned general meetings and to exercise voting Act 2006 relating to the business review from the Board on 31 March 2008. rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may are set out in the Chairmans statement, receive a dividend and on a liquidation the Chief Executives review, the Finance Patrick Dempsey will stand for election may share in the assets of the Company.
Directors review and the corporate and Alan Parker will stand for re-election at Holders of ordinary shares are entitled responsibility report on pages 1 to 17 the forthcoming AGM in accordance with to receive the Companys annual report and in the section entitled risks and the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to meeting certain uncertainties on pages 4 and 5 of the thresholds, holders of ordinary shares Directors Report and Accounts.
Details Details of the directors service contracts may requisition a general meeting of the of the Companys WINcard, containing are given in the remuneration report on Company or the proposal of resolutions the key performance indicators can be page 11 of the Directors Report and at annual general meetings.
None of the non-executive directors has a service contract.
Major interests Results and dividends As at 24 April 2009, the Company had Corporate governance been notified of the following interests Group profit before tax and The Company is committed to high of 3% or more of the voting rights of exceptional items from standards of corporate governance the Company pursuant of Rule 5 of the Continuing operations 229.9m and, with one exception, complied Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
throughout the year with the provisions Group profit before tax set out in Section 1 of the Combined No.
of % of and after exceptional items Code on Corporate Governance.
The shares issued from continuing operations 198.6m exception related to a period during share which the Company did not have a capital Interim dividend paid Senior Independent Director, while a on 6 January 2009 9.65p successor to Rod Kent was sought.
The Legal and 11,985,398 6.75% per share full corporate governance report can be General found on pages 6 to 9 of the Directors Recommended final dividend 26.90p Report and Accounts.
Schroders 10,531,421 5.35% per share Share capital Black Rock 8,727,235 5.00% Total dividend for the year 36.55p Throughout the year, the authorised per share share capital has been 319.89 million AXA 8,675,788 4.97% divided into 410,170,050 ordinary shares 122 of 76 p each representing 98.47% Standard Life 7,894,946 4.53% 153 of the total share capital, 265 million Investments www.
co. uk annualreport0809 28 Summary directors report Independent auditors report Charitable and political donations were cancelled during the year.
14.8 million existence for the foreseeable future.
No direct charitable donations have been shares representing 7.61% of the total Accordingly, they continue to adopt the made by the Company.
The Whitbread called up share capital at the beginning going concern basis in preparing the Charitable Trust made donations totalling of the year are held as treasury shares.
Costa Limited, The maximum number of ordinary shares a subsidiary of the Company, made a held in treasury during the year ended Annual General Meeting direct donation of 150,000 to the Costa 26 February 2009 was 19,188,806 on The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on Foundation.
Further details about the 27 June 2008 representing 9.89% of the 16 June 2009 at the Queen Elizabeth II Costa Foundation can be found on total called up share capital at that time.
Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, page 16.
The At the 2008 AGM the Company was notice of meeting is enclosed with this The Company has not made any political authorised to purchase its C shares report for those shareholders receiving donations during the year and intends to pursuant to a proposed contract between hard copy documents, and available continue its policy of not doing so for the Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and at www.
co. uk for those foreseeable future.
In total, 2.7 million C shares who elected to receive documents of 1 penny each, representing 0.02% of electronically.
Employment policies the total called up share capital at the Whitbread has a range of employment beginning of the year, were acquired By order of the Board.
policies covering such issues as during the year at a cost of 4.4 million, diversity, employee well-being and equal as part of the strategy to return value to Simon Barratt opportunities.
All of these shares have General Counsel and Company Secretary now been cancelled.
The Company takes its responsibilities 27 April 2009 to the disabled seriously and seeks Auditor not to discriminate against current Ernst & Young LLP have expressed Registered Office: or prospective employees because their willingness to continue in office Whitbread Court of any disability.
Employees who as auditor of the Company and a Houghton Hall Business Park become disabled during their career at resolution proposing their reappointment Porz Avenue Whitbread will be retained in employment will be put to shareholders at the Dunstable wherever possible and given help with AGM.
After proper consideration, the Bedfordshire rehabilitation and training.
Audit Committee is satisfied that the LU5 5XE Companys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, Employee involvement continue to be objective and independent Registered in England: No.
4120344 The importance of good relations and of the Company.
In coming to this The Annual review and summary report 2008 09 and communications with employees is conclusion, the Audit Committee gave the Directors Report and Accounts contain certain fundamental to the continued success full consideration to the non-audit work statements about the future outlook for the Group.
Each of the Groups carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
Although the Company believes that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any operating businesses maintains employee statements about future outlook may be influenced relations and consults employees as The Audit Committee has considered by factors that could cause actual outcomes and appropriate to its own particular needs.
what work should not be carried out by results to be materially different.
Regular internal communications are the external auditor and have concluded made to all employees to ensure that they that certain services, including internal are kept well informed of the performance audit, acquisition due diligence and IT of the Group.
consulting services, will not be carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
Purchase of own shares The Company is authorised to purchase Disclosure of information to auditor its own shares in the market.
Approval The directors have taken all reasonable to renew this authority for a further year steps to make themselves aware will be sought from shareholders at the of relevant audit information and to 2009 AGM.
establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The directors are not aware In total 1.6 million ordinary shares of of any relevant audit information which 122 76 p each representing 0.85% of has not been disclosed to the auditor.
153 the total called up share capital at the beginning of the year were acquired Going concern during the year at a cost of 20.0 million.
After making enquiries, the directors Five million of the shares held in treasury have a reasonable expectation that the representing 2.58% of the total called up Company and the Group have adequate share capital at the beginning of the year resources to continue in operational www.
co. uk annualreport0809 29 Independent auditors statement to the members of Whitbread PLC We have examined the Groups summary Basis of opinion financial statement for the year ended We conducted our examination in 26 February 2009 which comprise the accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The summary consolidated income statement, auditors statement on the summary the summary consolidated statement financial statement issued by the of recognised income and expense, the Auditing Practices Board for use in the summary consolidated balance sheet United Kingdom.
and the summary consolidated cash flow statement.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial This report is made solely to the statement is consistent with the companys members, as a body, in full annual financial statements, the accordance with Section 251 of the Directors Report and Directors Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest Remuneration Report, of Whitbread extent permitted by law, we do not PLC for the year ended 26 February accept or assume responsibility to 2009 and complies with the applicable anyone other than the company and requirements of section 251 of the the companys members as a body, for Companies Act 1985, and regulations our audit work, for this report, or for the made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Respective responsibilities of Registered auditor directors and auditors London The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Report in 27 April 2009 accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Summary Report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
co. uk annualreport0809 30 Summary accounts Summary consolidated income statement Year to Year to Year ended 26 February 2009 26 February 28 February 2009 2008 Restated m m Continuing operations Revenue 1,334.6 1,216.7 Cost of sales 193.0 185.5 Gross profit 1,141.6 1,031.2 Distribution costs 782.3 740.7 Administrative expenses 132.1 115.5 Operating profit 227.2 175.0 Share of loss from joint ventures 2.1 0.5 Share of profit from associate 1.1 0.6 Operating profit of the Group, joint ventures and associate 226.2 175.1 Finance costs 35.4 51.6 Finance revenue 7.8 11.1 Profit before tax 198.6 134.6 Analysed as: Underlying profit before tax 228.2 203.8 IAS 17 Leases impact of future minimum rental uplifts 3.4 0.4 Finance cost of cash flow hedges 0.4 0.1 IAS 19 Income Statement credit for pension finance cost 5.5 7.0 Profit before tax and exceptional items 229.9 210.3 Exceptional distribution costs 15.5 46.8 Exceptional administrative expenses 13.3 8.0 Exceptional finance costs 2.5 20.9 Profit before tax 198.6 134.6 Underlying tax expense 69.2 59.1 Exceptional tax and tax on continuing non GAAP adjustments 39.1 20.1 Tax expense 108.3 39.0 Net profit from continuing operations 90.3 95.6 Discontinued operations Net profit on disposal of businesses 440.8 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 20.7 461.5 Profit for the year 90.3 557.1 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 91.8 557.9 Equity minority interest 1.5 0.8 90.3 557.1 Earnings per share Year to 26 February 2009 Year to 28 February 2008 Restated Continuing Total Continuing Total operations operations operations operations p p p p Earnings per share Basic for profit for the year 52.82 52.82 50.92 294.72 Diluted for profit for the year 52.76 52.76 50.63 293.01 Earnings per share before exceptional items Basic for profit for the year 93.10 93.10 79.23 89.59 Diluted for profit for the year 92.99 92.99 78.78 89.08 Underlying earnings per share Basic for profit for the year 92.35 92.35 76.86 87.22 Diluted for profit for the year 92.24 92.24 76.42 86.71 Restated for deferred tax, see note 3 of the Directors Report and Accounts www.
co. uk annualreport0809 31 Summary consolidated statement Year to Year to of recognised income and expense 26 February 28 February 2009 2008 Restated Year ended 26 February 2009 m m Cash flow hedges: Loss taken to equity 29.6 4.5 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 5.3 0.8 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes 255.5 95.5 Tax on items taken directly to or from equity 79.8 29.3 Net loss gain recognised directly in equity 200.0 60.9 Profit for the year 90.3 557.1 Total recognised income and expense for the year 109.7 618.0 Attributable to: Parent shareholders 108.2 618.8 Equity minority interest 1.5 0.8 109.7 618.0 Restated for deferred tax, see note 3 of the Directors Report and Accounts www.
co. uk annualreport0809 32 Summary accounts Summary consolidated balance sheet At 26 February 2009 26 February 28 February 2009 2008 Restated m m Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 118.9 101.2 Property, plant and equipment 2,301.1 2,127.4 Investment in joint ventures 22.8 3.5 Investment in associate 1.3 0.8 Other financial assets 0.9 0.9 2,445.0 2,233.8 Current assets Inventories 16.5 13.2 Trade and other receivables 67.0 62.9 Cash and cash equivalents 44.5 107.1 128.0 183.2 Total assets 2,573.0 2,417.0 Liabilities Current liabilities Financial liabilities 1.9 377.0 Provisions 19.3 30.9 Derivative financial instruments 11.8 1.8 Income tax liabilities 16.4 6.8 Trade and other payables 243.6 241.3 293.0 657.8 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 665.7 155.9 Provisions 21.6 27.4 Derivative financial instruments 27.6 7.6 Deferred income tax liabilities 195.7 213.7 Pension liability 233.0 33.0 Trade and other payables 7.9 4.4 1,151.5 442.0 Total liabilities 1,444.5 1,099.8 Net assets 1,128.5 1,317.2 Equity Share capital 145.3 148.8 Share premium 46.1 43.8 Capital redemption reserve 12.3 8.5 Retained earnings 3,038.8 3,261.2 Currency translation reserve 5.3 Other reserves 2,120.0 2,145.1 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,127.8 1,317.2 Equity minority interest 0.7 Total equity 1,128.5 1,317.2 Restated for deferred tax and resulting impact on goodwill, see note 3 of the Directors Report and Accounts Alan Parker Chief Executive Christopher Rogers Finance Director 27 April 2009 www.
co. uk annualreport0809 33 Summary consolidated cash flow statement Year to Year to Year ended 26 February 2009 26 February 28 February 2009 2008 Restated m m Profit for the year 90.3 557.1 Adjustments for: Taxation charged on total operations 108.3 45.7 Net finance cost 27.6 40.5 Total loss from joint ventures 2.1 0.7 Total income from associate 1.1 0.6 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and property reversions 6.9 27.2 Net profit on disposal of businesses and investments 440.8 Depreciation and amortisation 96.3 89.0 Impairment of property 16.7 Pension credit 10.0 Reorganisation provision 2.8 19.4 Other non-cash items 12.1 6.7 Cash generated from operations before working capital changes 348.2 321.5 Increase in inventories 3.3 0.9 Increase in trade and other receivables 0.6 18.6 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 10.6 20.1 Payments against provisions 20.2 6.1 Additional payment to pension fund 50.0 50.0 Cash generated from operations 284.7 225.8 Interest paid 35.8 34.5 Taxes paid 37.0 25.8 Net cash flows from operating activities 211.9 165.5 Cash flows from investing activities Disposal of subsidiaries discontinued 984.3 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 275.7 283.4 Purchase of intangible assets 0.6 1.3 Costs from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 0.3 Business combinations, net of cash acquired 30.4 52.2 Capital contributions to joint ventures 17.1 1.6 Dividends from associate 0.6 0.7 Interest received 2.3 4.2 Net cash flows from investing activities 321.9 650.4 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 2.6 6.4 Costs of purchasing own shares 25.7 354.6 Repayment of preference shares 3.3 Decrease in short-term borrowings 9.2 42.7 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 231.1 Issue costs of long-term borrowings 2.3 Repayment of long-term borrowings 376.8 Dividends paid 64.1 60.7 Net cash flows used in financing activities 132.4 831.7 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 22.4 15.8 Opening cash and cash equivalents 20.3 36.1 Closing cash and cash equivalents 42.7 20.3 Reconciliation to cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents shown above 42.7 20.3 Add back overdrafts 1.8 86.8 Cash and cash equivalents shown within current assets on the balance sheet 44.5 107.1 Restated for deferred tax, see note 3 of the Directors Report and Accounts www.
co. uk annualreport0809 34 Shareholder services Shareholder services For further information about the A limited voting shares of 25p each: General Counsel and Company and its businesses please 103.75p Company Secretary visit the Whitbread website at Simon Barratt www.
co. uk B limited shares of 25p each: 103.75p Registered Office Registrars Whitbread has had discussions with the Whitbread PLC Capita Registrars, Northern House, Inland Revenue concerning the capital Whitbread Court Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, gains tax cost of Whitbread shares Houghton Hall Business Park Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA following the reduction of capital on 10 Porz Avenue May 2001.
It is confirmed that the market Dunstable The website address is value of each Whitbread share on 10 May Bedfordshire www.
com 2001 for these purposes was 606.5p and LU5 5XE the market value of each Fairbar share For enquiries regarding your shareholding was 230p.
Shareholder enquiries: 0844 855 2327 please telephone 0844 855 2327, or email For the purposes of calculating UK tax Share dealing service whitbread@capitaregistrars.
com on chargeable gains which may arise on a disposal of shares in the Company, Capita Share Dealing Services You can also view up-to-date information subsequent alterations to the Companys Tel: 0871 664 0446 about your holdings by visiting capital should be taken into account.
com particular, the special dividend and share consolidation in May 2005, the share These details have been provided for information only and any action you take is at your own risk.
Please ensure that you advise Capita consolidation and B share issue effected If you are in any doubt about what action to take, promptly of any change of address.
in June 2006 and the share consolidation please consult your own financial adviser.
Should you not wish to use these services you could find a and C share issue in January 2007 broker in your local area, on the internet or enquire Dividend payment by BACS should be considered in accordance with about share dealing at any high street bank or We can pay your dividends direct to your the information provided in the related building society.
The availability of this service should not be taken as a recommendation to deal.
bank or building society account using shareholder circulars.
Further information the Bankers Automated Clearing Service on capital gains tax allocations in relation BACS.
This means that your dividend to the B and C share issues can be found Financial diary 2009 10 will be in your account on the same day in the investors private shareholders dates subject to confirmation we make the payment.
Your tax voucher section of the Companys website will be posted to your home address.
28 April Results announcement If you would like to use this method of payment please ring the registrars on Unsolicited mail 6 May Ex dividend date for 0844 855 2327.
We are aware that some shareholders final dividend have had occasion to complain of 8 May Record date for final Sharegift the use, by outside organisations, of dividend If you have a small number of Whitbread information obtained from Whitbreads PLC shares, with a value that makes share register.
Whitbread, like other 16 June AGM at QEII it uneconomical to sell them, you may companies, cannot by law refuse to Conference Centre donate the shares to charity through supply such information provided that 10 July Payment of final the Sharegift scheme operated by the the organisation concerned pays the dividend Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
information on Sharegift can be obtained 3 September Half year-end from their website www.
org If you are a resident in the UK and 13 October Announcement of half or by calling 020 7930 3737. wish to stop receiving unsolicited mail year results then you should register with the Mailing Capital gains tax Preference Service, telephone: 020 7291 21 October Ex dividend date for Market values of shares in the Company 3310 or you may prefer to write to: The interim dividend as at 31 March 1982 were as follows: Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 22, 23 October Record date for interim London W1E 7EZ.
dividend 5 January Payment of interim 2010 dividend 4 March 2010 End of financial year www.
co. uk annualreport0809 35 For your information, we have reproduced below advice from the FSA and ICSA about boiler room scams: Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised fi rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
co. uk annualreport0809 36 Awards Premier Inn won Best Business Premier Inn won Best Business Premier Inn won Best Customer Expense Management Process Hotel Brand Business Travel World Satisfaction in Leisure and Business Travel World Premier Inn beat off stiff competition Tourism Institute of Customer Premier Inns Business Account was from Marriott International and Q Service Customer Satisfaction named as Best Business Expense Hotels to be crowned Best Business The winners were the top performers Management process.
This award Hotel brand for the second year in the UK Customer Satisfaction Index makes Premier Inn the first brand to running.
UKCSI in a survey of more than have its own expense management 24,000 people.
solution recognised above global payment solutions.
WINNER Applications of Research Premier Inn, in conjunction with Premier Inn was voted Most Whitbread won International BDRC and TRI, has won the award for Improved Brand at the annual Award at Peach Networks Hero Applications of Research at the Market Hotel Marketing Awards & Icon Awards.
Research Society Awards, for Project An unprecedented third time in Shooting Star: Shaping the Growth four years that Premier Inn has Strategy for Premier Inn.
RETAILERS RETAILER coffee chain of the year tracking programme AWARDS 09 Costa was recognised as Costa won Best Coffee Chain By Food Operator of the Year branded Most Revitalised Brand Customers from him!s Coffee Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants Costa won in the M&C Retailers Chain Tracking Programme.
beat off stiff competition from Retail Annual Awards event.
Marston Inns and Greene King.
WHR won two of the most important awards in the industry Food Operator of the Year branded and Food Concept of the Year for Taybarns.
Table Tables popular childrens menu won the Kids Menu category at the MIDAS Menu Innovation and Development Awards.
co. uk annualreport0809 2 Welcome to Whitbread In this Annual Review, we report on our performance during the past twelve months.
co. uk annualreport0809 Annual Review and Summary Report 2008 09 Whitbread Plc a year in the life of Whitbread Designed and produced by Columns Design, www.
