42 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 General information The Directors report and business review At the AGM of the Company held in 2008, a special resolution was Pages 2 to 44 inclusive of this Annual report consist of a Directors passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held on 24 May report and business review that has been drawn up and presented 2007 to the purchase by the Company of up to 268,361,042 in accordance with, and in reliance on, English company law.
ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued The liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Directors ordinary share capital at that time.
This authority remained valid report and business review shall be subject to the limitations on 1 February 2009.
During the period, the Company purchased and restrictions provided by the Companies Act 2006. and cancelled 57,788,600 of its ordinary shares pursuant to that authority which will expire at the close of the 2009 AGM.
Further There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other details appear in note 41 of the financial statements.
arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
In addition, 1,530,738 ordinary shares were issued during the Forward-looking statements period to employees exercising share options.
The Directors report and business review is prepared for the members of the Company and should not be relied upon by any Borrowing powers other party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors report The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the borrowings and business review includes forward-looking statements, these are of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum made by the Directors in good faith based on the information amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Substantial shareholdings Consequently, such statements should be treated with caution As at 11 March 2009, the Company had been notified by the due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and following shareholders excluding Directors that they have interests business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking statements in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: and information.
Number % of of shares holding Result and dividend Ameriprise Financial Inc 173,736,469 6.6% The profit for the period after taxation amounted to 460m.
The Sir KD Morrison 171,346,034 6.5% Directors have declared and recommended the following dividends: AR Wilson 155,758,573 5.9% m Legal & General Group Plc 137,128,838 5.2% Paid interim dividend of 0.8p per share Brandes Investment Partners LP 132,155,077 5.0% 2008: 0.675p 21 Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.1% Recommended final dividend of 5.0p per share Susan & Nigel Pritchard 106,405,539 4.0% 2008: 4.125p 131 Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.1% The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual The number of shares appearing above is that appearing in the General Meeting AGM, is to be paid on 10 June 2009 to ordinary relevant notification to the Company.
The percentage appearing shareholders on the register of members at close of business on above is the percentage that number represents of the issued share 8 May 2009.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, capital of the Company as at 11 March 2009. the total ordinary dividend for the year will be 5.8p per share.
Beneficial owners of shares with information rights Auditor Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to registered holder of those shares to receive information rights authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is to be proposed under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to at the forthcoming AGM.
direct all enquiries and communications to the registered holder of Annual General Meeting their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita The notice of the 2009 AGM of the Company to be held at the Registrars, or to the Group directly.
Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford on 4 June 2009 Directors is sent to shareholders with an accompanying explanatory letter The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are shown from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the resolutions on pages 28 to 29. to be proposed at the AGM is in the best interests of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
Sir Ken Morrison and Roger Owen retired from the Board on Shareholders will also receive notification of the availability of the 13 March 2008 and 1 February 2009 respectively.
results to view on the Groups website, unless they have elected to Philip Cox will join the Board on 1 April 2009 as a receive a printed version.
Share capital Brian Flanagan aged 56, Paul Manduca aged 57, Susan Murray The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, together aged 52 and Nigel Robertson aged 49 retire by rotation and with details of shares allotted during the year, is shown in note 22 Philip Cox aged 57 retires at the first AGM following his of the financial statements.
All of them, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 43 The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of Health and safety policy the Company and their immediate families in the shares of the It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, Company, along with share options, are contained in the Directors to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, remuneration report set out on pages 34 to 41. customers and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place for each division At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material of the Company and subsidiary companies within the Group.
Each interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of health and safety manual contains the policy and procedures for its subsidiaries.
complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, including Political and charitable donations the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe working practices During the period the Group made charitable donations amounting for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups health and to 0.3m.
In addition, the Group sponsored various charities and in safety policy is approved by the Executive Board.
The Group has the year over 0.9m was raised by customers and staff.
No political adopted the national targets set by the Health and Safety donations were made, which is Group policy.
Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and workrelated ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these targets.
Disclosure of information to auditors Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this improvement in all areas.
Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is Additional shareholder information unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought Additional information for shareholders is required by the to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK Law.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor Pursuant to Part VII of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 and is aware of that information.
section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required Going concern to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, which The Directors assessment of the Group and Companys ability to are not covered elsewhere in this report, include the following continue as a going concern has taken into consideration the effect paragraphs.
Where reference is made to the Companys Articles of that the current economic climate has on the Group.
Association, this refers to the existing set of Articles, although the changes proposed to be made at the Companys 2009 AGM will not The Groups ability to borrow cash has not been adversely affected change the relevant sections.
The disclosures below are in some by the lack of liquidity in the financial markets and the Group has cases a summary of the relevant provisions of the Companys already negotiated and has available committed, competitive Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found facilities that will meet the Groups needs in the medium term.
in the Articles which are available for inspection at the Companys The principal risks that the Group are challenged with have been registered office.
set out on page 22 to 23 including such risks as the loss of a key Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares supplier, along with how the Directors mitigate these risks in the Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the current economic climate.
Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether After reviewing the Groups Optimisation Plan, financial forecasts in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the including an assessment of working capital and other medium Company may from time-to-time by ordinary resolution determine term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company and the or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors Group have adequate financial resources available to continue in may determine.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going concern At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation of the on a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting Payment to creditors rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the business.
to be passed at a general meeting.
The Group works within the spirit and letter of the supermarkets No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to code of practice.
It is Group policy to ensure all payments are made attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting within mutually agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise, the or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if Group attempts to sort these out promptly and amicably to ensure he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Trade creditors for the under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon Group at the financial year end represented 33 days of purchases public companies the power to require information with respect to 2008: 34 days.
interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that 44 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 General information continued no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Appointment and powers of Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must be put up for appointment at the next AGM.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the Companys AGM to be held on 4 June 2009, a resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association to incorporate changes introduced by the new Companies Act 2006.
Other disclosures The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have any employee share schemes where the shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the Company which are not exercisable by employees.
By the order of the Board Jonathan Burke Company Secretary 11 March 2009
