78 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company financial statements under UK GAAP Financial instruments Company accounting policies Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys Basis of preparation balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets contractual provisions of the instrument.
PLC the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historic cost convention, except for share-based payments a Financial assets and derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair i Trade and other debtors: Trade and other debtors are carried at value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
actuarial valuations and in accordance with applicable accounting Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the standards under UK GAAP and the Companies Act 1985.
Company will not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Balances are written The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
ii Cash: Cash includes cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short term, highly liquid investments Accounting reference date that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, with an The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling insignificant risk of a change in value, within three months from between 29 January and 4 February each year.
In the balance sheet bank overdrafts are Investments presented within current liabilities.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less b Financial liabilities provision for impairment.
Trade and other creditors: Trade and other creditors are stated Fixed assets at cost.
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and c Derivative financial instruments accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly attributable Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful lives and which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at fair value material residual values.
Depreciation Cash flow hedges: Derivative financial instruments are classified The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates which as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Companys exposure to are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular fixed assets on a straight line basis.
The rates applied are: risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Freehold land 0% probable forecasted transaction.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2.5% To minimise the risk from potential movements in commodity Short leasehold improvements Over lease period prices, the Company has fuel price contracts which are designated Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 14- 33% as cash flow hedges.
Assets under construction 0% Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
Where a Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when events derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly not be recoverable.
This is performed for each income generating probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss unit, which in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument If there are indications of possible impairment then a test is is recognised directly in equity through the Statement of recognised performed on the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount gains and losses STRGL.
An asset impaired is written down to its The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its net recognised in the profit and loss account within cost of sales.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified money and the risks specific to the asset.
into the profit and loss account when the transaction occurs.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had Borrowing costs been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and loss impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount account on an accruals basis except for interest costs that are directly does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been attributable to the construction of buildings which are capitalised determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
and included within the initial cost of a building.
Capitalisation of interest cost ceases when the property is ready for use.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 79 Pension costs Leases The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership schemes.
The defined benefit scheme is no longer open to new are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other members.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under leases are classified as finance leases.
which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Lessor accounting operating leases A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit schemes are recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight line basis defined on retirement based on age at the date of retirement, to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
years of service and employees final compensation package.
Operating lease income is recognised on a straight line basis to the The Companys defined benefit retirement scheme is funded by date of the next rent review.
contributions from the Company and members.
Pension scheme Lessee accounting operating leases assets, which are held in separate trustee administered funds, are Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are measured on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
a discounted present value basis using assumptions set out in note 39.
The operating and financing costs of the scheme are recognised Deferred and current taxation in the profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight line basis over Taxable profit differs from the profit as reported in the profit and their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised loss account as it is adjusted both for items that will never be immediately in the statement of recognised gains and losses.
taxable or deductible and timing differences.
A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences between the of the Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated accounting and tax cost bases that result in an obligation at the net of deferred tax.
balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a The Company also operates a stakeholder pension scheme and future date.
Deferred tax is calculated based on tax law enacted or contributions are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is provided at rates that are expected to apply when the timing differences reverse.
Foreign currencies Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet liabilities are not discounted.
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance Stocks sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
in the profit and loss account for the period.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes, Provisions less rebates.
Stocks are primarily goods for resale.
Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it is probable Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
obligation from the Company, and where it can be reliably measured.
Share-based payments The nature of these provisions are: The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain a Property provisions: Provisions made in respect of individual employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value properties where there are obligations for onerous contracts, of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is dilapidations and certain decommissioning obligations for petrol expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a filling stations.
The amounts provided are based on the Companys corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the Companys best estimate of the likely committed outflow to the Company.
estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes into Where material, these estimated outflows are discounted to net account movement of non-market conditions, being service present value.
conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
b Restructuring provisions: Provisions are established for announced and ongoing restructuring programmes planned and Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial stochastic model.
controlled by management where there is an obligation to make The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on changes to the scope of the business undertaken by the Company managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, or the manner in which business is conducted.
The provision exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
includes costs of severance to the affected employees, costs of The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is property closure, and other direct expenditures not associated calculated, based on an appropriate apportionment, at the date of with ongoing activities.
grant and recharged through an intercompany account.
The charge to reserves is retained within the Companys retained earnings.
80 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company financial statements Financial contracts Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
Exemptions The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statement and exemption from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial instruments disclosures.
The cash flows of the Company and financial instruments disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Parties from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group.
