Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 45 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: with applicable law and regulations.
for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Company financial statements: and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Company will continue in business.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration Parent Company.
report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial law and those regulations.
statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Directors report includes a fair review of the development of applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair review the business and the position of the Company and its subsidiaries of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Company and its subsidiaries included in the consolidation as a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
whole: and By order of the Board 11 March 2009
