Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 93 Glossary Carbon footprint EBITDA A measure of the impact human activities have on the environment Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
in terms of the amount of greenhouse gases produced, measured in EPoS units of carbon dioxide.
Competition Commission FAO This is an independent public body which conducts in-depth Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations is a inquiries into mergers, markets and the regulation of major specialised agency that leads international efforts to improve regulated industries.
agricultural productivity and better the lives of rural populations.
Contingent liabilities Finance lease A possible obligation arising from events not wholly within the A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of control of the Group.
The liability is not recognised if the outcome ownership from the lessor to the lessee.
is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
FTSE100 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The 100 largest companies, by market capitalisation, listed on the The understanding and management of the relationship between London Stock Exchange.
the Group and the economy, environment and communities within which we operate.
Footfall The number of people who visit our stores.
Defra Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
The UK GAAP Government department tasked with issues such as the Generally accepted accounting principles and practices.
environment, food rural development, the countryside, wildlife, GfK NOP animal welfare and sustainable development.
Leading market research agency providing business insight through Derivatives quantitative and qualitative research surveys.
Financial instruments that derive their value from an underlying Hedging price or index, such as an interest rate, a foreign exchange rate, an Reducing the exposure to risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in index of prices rates or a commodity price.
exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, etc.
Typical tools Distribution miles include forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
This is the distance used to transport goods from distribution International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS centres to stores.
IFRS are standards, interpretations and the framework for the Direct manufacturing sales preparation and presentation of financial statements adopted These are external sales from manufacturing sites either entirely by the International Accounting Standards Board.
IGD Dividend cover Institute of Grocery Distribution.
A membership service that Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations attributable provides research, information, and education for the food and to equity shareholders divided by total value of dividends declared grocery industry.
Interest rate swap Eat Smart A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an The range of calorie, fat, sugar and salt controlled foods, which have interest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These been specifically designed to help maintain a controlled diet without are used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
94 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Glossary continued KPIs Optimisation Plan Key Performance Indicators.
Measures used by the Board Our tactical recovery programme between 2007 and 2010. of Directors to monitor the performance and development Organic of the Group.
A range of genuine organic products that dont cost the earth.
LIBOR Organic farming prohibits the use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, London Interbank Offered Rate This is the rate that banks can growth regulators and additives in livestock feed.
The International borrow funds from other banks in the London interbank market Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits and is fixed on a daily basis, and is the worlds most widely used national organic certifying bodies.
benchmark for short term interest rates.
Safeway business Like-for-like sales The assets and business of Safeway Plc which were acquired Measuring sales on the same basis as the previous year, excluding on 8 March 2004. the impact of new store openings or store disposals.
Also excluded Sales densities is the impact of major refurbishments and extensions.
The level of sales generated per square foot of selling space.
Litreage Sensitivities The number of litres of fuel sold.
Indicates how certain balances would shift should a key assumption Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs move while others remain constant.
In effect, shows how dependent Incentive schemes available to certain employees to encourage the balances are on certain factors.
SoRIE Market share Statement of recognised income and expense.
The percentage of the market or market segment that is being The Best serviced by Morrisons.
Premium products that are prepared from the very best ingredients.
Market Street TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres Our unique range of fresh food counters that bring a personal Global retail market information group who have a panel of some service into the supermarket.
MIS UK GAAP Management Information Systems covers the application of people, UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and practices.
technologies and procedures, collectively the information systems, to business problems.
Vertical integration The extent to which the upstream suppliers and downstream Moodys buyers are owned by the Group.
Moodys Investors Service is among the worlds most respected and widely utilised sources for credit ratings, research and risk analysis.
The Nielsen Company The Nielsen Company is a global information and media company with leading market positions in marketing and media information.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
A government body which is the UKs consumer and competition authority.
Onerous lease An unavoidable lease commitment for a property that is no longer in use by the business.
The lease commitment is reduced by the expected future rental income where the Group has sublet the property.
