Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 47 Consolidated financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards Effective for accounting Accounting policies International Financial Reporting Standards periods starting on or after General information IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: A revised presentation 1 January 2009 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company IFRS 2 Share-based payment: incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985 Vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 United Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain IAS 23 Borrowing costs 1 January 2009 Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
IFRSs Annual improvements to IFRSs 1 January 2009 Basis of preparation IAS 27 Consolidated and separate The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks financial statements 1 July 2009 ended 1 February 2009 2008: 3 February 2008 in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations 1 July 2009 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes 1 July 2008 IFRIC as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the European Union.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued by the International Accounting The application of these standards and interpretations are not Standards Board the IASB and must be adopted into European anticipated to have a material effect on the Groups financial Union law, referred to as endorsement, before they become statements except for additional disclosure.
mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent Basis of consolidation standards and interpretations that have been issued by the IASB, The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial indicating their status of endorsement.
statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, being those The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern undertakings that it controls.
Control is achieved where the basis.
The Directors assessment of going concern has been Company has the power to govern the financial and operating considered within the general information section of the Directors policy of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its report and business review.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, rounded for the same reporting period as the Parent Company and are to the nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed based on consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries relevant to disclose the amounts up to one decimal place.
They have acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, except for consolidated financial statements from the effective date of share-based payments and derivative financial instruments, which acquisition up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
are measured at fair value, and pension scheme liabilities that are measured using actuarial valuations.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, unless in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Significant accounting policies The Directors consider the following to be significant accounting The endorsement of IFRIC 14 IAS19 The limit on a defined benefit policies in the context of the Groups operations: asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction, has no material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The accounting Revenue recognition policy for Retirement benefits has been updated to cover the Revenue is recognised when significant risks and rewards of recognition of an asset if one should exist in the future.
ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable certainty of recovery of the consideration and the amount of There have been no further alterations made to the accounting revenue, associated costs and possible return of goods can be policies as a result of considering all amendments to IFRS and IFRIC estimated reliably.
interpretations that became effective during the financial period as these were considered to be immaterial to the Groups operations or a Sale of goods in-store and fuel were not relevant.
Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of value added tax, staff discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element of multi-save New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of value added tax and There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the Morrisons Miles award points.
Revenue is recognised when International Accounting Standards Board that are effective for transactions are completed in-store.
financial statements after this reporting period.
The following have not been adopted by the Group: 48 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Accounting policies continued b Manufacturing sales Borrowing costs Manufacturing sales are made direct to third-party customers All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups income statement from our manufacturing companies and are recognised on on an effective interest rate basis except for interest costs that are despatch of goods.
Sales are recorded net of value added tax directly attributable to the construction of buildings which are and intra-group transactions.
capitalised and included within the initial cost of a building.
Capitalisation of interest cost ceases when the property is ready c Income from concessions and commissions for use.
Income from concessions and commissions is based on the terms of the contract.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is not Deferred and current tax recognised as turnover, other than the related commission.
Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting Other operating income date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous Other operating income consists of income not directly related to periods.
Taxable profit differs from the profit as reported in the the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises rental income income statement as it is adjusted both for items that will never from investment properties.
Other categories of income included be taxable or deductible and temporary differences.
Current tax is within Other operating income are backhaul income and credits charged in the income statement, except when it relates to items earned from the recycling of waste and packaging materials.
Details charged or credited directly in equity in which case the current tax of rental income from investment property are provided in note 10. is reflected in equity.
a Rental income from investment property Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
Provision Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is made for temporary differences between the carrying amounts is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Segmental reporting amounts used for taxation purposes.
No deferred tax is recognised Based on the nature of risks and returns impacting the Groups for temporary differences that arise on the initial recognition of activities, the Directors consider that the primary reporting format goodwill or the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that is not a is by business segment.
The Directors consider that there is only business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable one business segment, being grocery and related retailing.
Deferred tax is calculated based on tax law that is enacted or disclosures for the primary segment are therefore given by the substantively enacted at the reporting date and provided at rates primary financial statements and related notes.
expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement except when it The Groups business operations are conducted almost exclusively relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case in the UK so a geographical segment report is not required.
the deferred tax is reflected in equity.
Cost of sales Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Deferred tax assets recognised are reviewed at each depreciation and a proportion of employee costs are also allocated reporting date as judgement is required to estimate the availability to cost of sales.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not Supplier income discounted and are offset where amounts will be settled on a net Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred basis as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
to as supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax based on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the compliance issues.
All accruals are included in current liabilities.
balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts receivable at year end are included Business combinations and goodwill within prepayments and accrued income.
Where amounts received All business combinations are accounted for by applying the are in the expectation of future business, these are recognised in purchase method.
line with that future business.
The assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of subsidiaries are Property transactions measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess Property includes the balance sheet headings of property, plant and of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net equipment, investment property, lease prepayments and nonassets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
current assets classified as held for sale.
The results of transactions The goodwill in respect of the acquisition of Safeway was fully relating to disposal of property are reported in the income impaired in 2006. statement under Profit arising on property transactions.
Depreciation and any impairment charges or reversals are recognised in cost of sales or administrative expenses, as appropriate.
co. uk annualreport09 49 Property, plant and equipment Non-current assets classified as held for sale a Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly of estimated useful lives and material residual values.
probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to b Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value on the sale and it should be expected to be completed within one year a straight line basis are: from the date of classification.
Freehold land 0% On reclassification, non-current assets held for sale are recognised Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2.5% at the lower of carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
Short lease buildings Over lease period Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are Plant, equipment, fixtures and vehicles 14-33% included in the income statement, as are gains or losses on Assets held under a finance lease Shorter of life of lease or asset subsequent remeasurement.
The depreciation of the asset ceases Assets under construction 0% on reclassification.
Assets are reclassified from non-current assets held for sale when the above criteria cease to be met.
Investment property Property held to earn rental income rather than for the purpose of Leases the Groups principal activities is classified as Investment property.
Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Investment property is recorded at cost less accumulated are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases: all other depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
The depreciation leases are classified as finance leases.
policy is consistent with those described for other Group properties.
Lessor accounting Income from investment properties is disclosed in Other operating a Operating leases income and details are shown in note 10 Investment property.
Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are recorded The related operating costs are immaterial and are included within as property, plant and equipment and are depreciated on a straight Administrative expenses.
line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is recognised on a straight Impairment of non-financial assets line basis to the date of the next rent review.
Property, plant and equipment and investment property are annually reviewed for indications of impairment, or when events or changes b Finance leases in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be The Group does not lease any assets on a finance lease basis.
This is performed for each cash generating unit, which Lessee accounting in the case of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are a Operating leases indications of possible impairment then a test is performed on the Rental payments are taken to the income statement on a straight asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying line basis over the life of the lease.
An asset impaired is written down to its recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Property leases are analysed into separate components for land In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are and buildings and tested to establish whether the components discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that are operating leases or finance leases.
Premiums paid for land are reflects current market assessments of the time value of money treated as a prepayment of an operating lease rental and recognised and the risks specific to the asset.
on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had b Finance leases been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the The present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit in the impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount lease, of the future minimum lease payments is included within fixed does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been assets and financial liabilities as an obligation to pay future rentals.
determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
Depreciation is provided at the same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, if shorter.
Stocks Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of purchase price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes, finance charge on the remaining balance.
Stocks are primarily goods for resale.
Provisions Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Provisions are created where the Group has a present legal or course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it is the sale.
probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation from the Group, and where it can be reliably measured.
The nature of these provisions are: 50 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Accounting policies continued a Property provisions of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is Provisions made in respect of individual properties where there expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period with a are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and certain corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the Groups decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
The amounts estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
This takes provided are based on the Groups best estimate of the likely into account movement of non-market conditions, being service committed outflow to the Group.
Where material, these estimated conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value outflows are discounted to net present value.
of equity-settled awards granted is not subsequently revisited.
b Restructuring provisions Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
Provisions are established for announced and ongoing restructuring The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on programmes planned and controlled by management where there managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, is an obligation to make changes to the scope of the business exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
undertaken by the Group or the manner in which business is The Group has applied fair values to all grants of equity instruments conducted.
The provision includes costs of severance to the affected after 7 November 2002 which were unvested as of 1 January 2005, employees, costs of property closure, and other direct expenditures at each balance sheet date.
not associated with ongoing activities.
Financial instruments Foreign currencies Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are a Financial assets denominated in foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of i Trade and other debtors exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on Trade and other debtors are carried at the lower of their original retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when Retirement benefits there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution balances in full, with the charge being recognised in administrative schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under expenses in the income statement.
Balances are written off when which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution ii Cash and cash equivalents scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit schemes are Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes cash-indefined on retirement based on age at date of retirement, years hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short term, of service and a formula using either the employees compensation highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known package or career average earnings.
amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a change in value, The Group operates two defined benefit retirement schemes which within three months from the date of acquisition.
In the balance are funded by contributions from the Group and members.
The sheet, bank overdrafts are presented within current liabilities.
defined benefit schemes are not open to new members.
Pension b Financial liabilities scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee administered i Trade and other creditors funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme obligations are Trade and other creditors are stated at cost.
measured on a discounted present value basis using assumptions as shown in note 20.
The operating and financing costs of the scheme ii Borrowings are recognised separately in the income statement in the period in Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at which they arise.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial line basis over their vesting period.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognition, any difference between the redemption value and the recognised immediately in the statement of recognised income initial carrying amount is recognised in the income statement over and expense.
the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
The Group has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, in c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting respect of the Groups net obligations to the pension schemes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value, Therefore, either an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at fair value sheet, calculated separately for each scheme.
Payments by the Group to the defined contribution scheme are Cash flow hedges charged to the income statement as they arise.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that Share-based payments are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair value Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 51 The Group has a cross-currency swap which has been designated The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
This derivative financial instrument is used The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal to match or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have exchange rates inherent in the cash flows of certain financial significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying liabilities.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
commodity prices, the Group has fuel price contracts which are a Property provisions also designated as cash flow hedges.
Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and Derivatives are reviewed quarterly for effectiveness.
These provisions are estimates based on derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the the condition of each property and market conditions in the relevant variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly location.
The actual costs and timing of future cash flows are probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period is recognised directly in equity through SoRIE.
The gain or loss on when such determination is made.
any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the b Pension scheme assumptions and mortality table income statement within finance income costs in relation to the The carrying value of defined benefit pension schemes is valued cross-currency swap and within cost of sales in relation to the fuel using actuarial valuations.
These valuations are based on price contracts.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently assumptions including the selection of the correct mortality tables results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the for the profile of members in each scheme.
All these are estimates associated cumulative gains or losses that were recognised directly of future events.
The mortality experience study conducted as part in equity are reclassified into the income statement when the of the Safeway scheme triennial valuation is statistically significant transaction occurs.
and the longevity assumption is adjusted to reflect its results.
As Net debt both of the Groups schemes have a similar composition and type Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit, of members, this adjustment is also made to the Morrisons scheme.
bank and other current loans, bonds and derivative financial The mortality assumptions, financial assumptions and mortality instruments stated at current fair value.
experience study are based on advice received from the schemes actuaries.
Where appropriate, these are corroborated from time Share capital to time with benchmark surveys and ad hoc analysis.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in c Assumptions relating to tax equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation of the likely taxes due, which requires significant Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share judgement as to the ultimate tax determination of certain items.
capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable Where the actual liability arising from these issues differs from incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the these estimates, such differences will have an impact on income shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the tax and deferred tax provisions in the period when such shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred determination is made.
to the capital redemption reserve.
d Determination of useful lives, residual values and carry values Treasury shares of property, plant and equipment, investment property and long The Group has an employee trust for the granting of Group shares leasehold land prepayments to executives and members of the employee share plans.
Shares in Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to their the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in the shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from accounting policies for property, plant and equipment, investment retained earnings.
property and long leasehold land prepayments.
The selection of The finance and administration costs relating to the Executive Share these residual values and estimated lives requires the exercise Option Scheme are charged to the income statement.
are deducted for the purpose of calculating the Groups earnings The Group is required to assess whether there is indication per share.
of impairment to the carrying value of assets.
In making that Use of critical accounting assumptions and estimates assessment, judgements are made in estimating value in use.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based The Directors consider that the individual carrying values of stores on historical experience and other factors, including expectations and other operating assets are supportable either by value in use of future events that are believed to be reasonable under or market values.
