Shareholder information Shareview is a service offered by Equiniti, our Registrars, 2009 Capitalisation and share issue which allows shareholders online access to a range of information shareholder information.
Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings in the Company and practical help On 6 March 2009, Wolseley plc announced a capital on transferring shares or updating personal details.
It also reorganisation and share issue.
Following receipt of allows shareholders to choose to receive shareholder shareholder approval, the 25 pence ordinary shares of communications electronically, rather than by post.
To register, the Company were split into 1 penny ordinary shares and shareholders simply need to log on to www.
co. uk 24 pence deferred shares on 2 April 2009: immediately with their shareholder reference number and complete the following the share split, the 1 penny ordinary shares were simple on-screen registration process.
then consolidated on a ten for one basis.
This created the new 10 pence ordinary shares.
On 3 April 2009, eligible First-time users will need to enter certain information and shareholders were then given the opportunity to participate choose a personal identi cation number before they are able in a rights issue on the basis of 11 new shares for every five to access their shareholding details.
existing shares held on 1 April 2009, at a subscription price shareview.
co. uk, you will be able to do all of the following at of 400 pence per share.
The rights issue offer period ended the click of a mouse: on 21 April and dealing in the new fully paid 10 pence check your shareholding in Wolseley plc 24 hours a day: ordinary shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 22 April 2009.
Information relating to the transaction, register your email and mailing preference post or including the taxable treatment of the rights or payment for electronic for future shareholder mailings: rights not taken up, is available in the prospectus available at gain easy access to a variety of shareholder information www.
including indicative valuations and payment instruction Stock Exchange Listings details: The ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company access the share dealing facility: and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company use the internet to appoint a proxy for you at general operates a Level I American Depositary Receipts ADR meetings of the shareholders.
On 2 April 2009, following the capital reorganisation, the ADR ratio was changed from one ADR The Company can, at shareholders request, send equalling one ordinary share to one ADR equalling one-tenth shareholders an email noti cation each time a new of an ordinary share.
These ADRs are listed on the premier tier shareholder report or other shareholder communication is put of the over-the-counter market OTCQX.
Further information on the website.
Shareholders will then be able to read and or can be found at www.
download the information at their leisure, but will still be able to request paper copies of the documents should they Published information so wish.
Further copies of the Annual Report may be obtained from the Share dealing Investor Relations Department Corporate Communications Department, Wolseley plc, Parkview 1220, Arlington Business UK-based shareholders are also offered a simple and Park, Theale, Reading RG7 4GA, United Kingdom.
Company convenient telephone and internet share sale and purchase information may also be viewed on the Companys website at service by our Registrars.
Equiniti Shareview dealing is www.
If you would like to receive a copy of the available for telephone purchases and sales on 0871 384 Annual Report in an appropriate alternative format, such as 2020 between 8:30am and 4:30pm, Monday to Friday and Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group for internet purchases and sales via www.
co. uk Company Secretariat on 44 0 118 929 8700. dealing.
A postal dealing service is also available and a form together with terms and conditions can be obtained from Equiniti by calling 0871 384 2934.
Calls to these numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
146 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
