Principal subsidiary undertakings and their directors Austria Netherlands Europe OAG AG Wasco Holding B. V. United Kingdom A-1110 Wien 7391 AL Twello Wolseley UK Limited Incorporated and operational in Austria Incorporated and operational in the Leamington Spa Netherlands Warwickshire CV31 3HH Director M Lanik Directors Incorporated and operational in the R B Bailkoski, H A T van den Belt United Kingdom Supervisory Board R Bailkoski, T Brophy, P Frank, Switzerland Directors R H Marchbank, T Zwettler S Ashmore, R H Marchbank, Tobler Haustechnik AG M J Neville Belgium 8902 Urdorf Ireland Wasco-Centratec NV Incorporated and operational in 3001 Heverlee Switzerland Wolseley Ireland Limited Athlone, Co. Westmeath Incorporated and operational in Directors Belgium R B Bailkoski, E Ballmer, A Ronchetti, Incorporated and operational in the H Wiedmer Republic of Ireland Directors R B Bailkoski, T Brophy, M J R Verrier, Directors North America S P Webster S McBride, M J Neville, USA P Roche, C Soden Czech Republic Ferguson Enterprises Inc. Wolseley Ireland Holdings Limited Wolseley Czech Republic spol.
s r. o. Newport News, Virginia 23602 Athlone, Co. Westmeath 619 00 Brno Incorporated and operational in the Incorporated and operational in the Incorporated and operational in the United States of America Republic of Ireland Czech Republic Directors Directors Managing Director L A Byrd, J K Cross, J A Feltman, S McBride, M Neville, T C Vogelesang S F Grosslight, M L Grunkemeyer, P Roche, C Soden T E Hall, W S Hargette, D L Keltner, Statutory representatives France K M Murphy, S D Petock, J A Posey, R B Bailkoski, M Dvoracek, F W Roach, S M Roznowski, T C Vogelesang Brossette SAS W S Russell, D P Strup, 69007 Lyon Wolseley Eastern Europe a. s. K D VanderVennet, J L Wilcox Prague 8 Incorporated and operational in France Canada Incorporated and operational in the Prsident-directeur gnral Wolseley Canada Inc Czech Republic P Gardies Burlington, Ontario Directors PB & M SAS Incorporated and operational in M Hlinecky, S Weirsoe 92400 Courbevoie Canada Supervisory Board Incorporated and operational in France Directors T Brophy, N G Parry, J Clausen, Prsident-directeur gnral M D Lamontagne, F W Roach, R I Shoylekov P Gardies K D VanderVennet Italy Denmark Wolseley Industrial Products Manzardo SpA Group Inc DT Group A S 39100 Bolzano Burlington, Ontario Gladsaxe Mollevej, 5 DK-2860 Soborg Incorporated and operational in Italy Incorporated and operational in Incorporated and operational in Canada Directors Denmark R B Bailkoski, T Brophy, N Gasparoni Directors Directors M D Lamontagne, F W Roach, Luxembourg M Asim, K S Borregaard, K D VanderVennet R H Marchbank, B W Mortensen, Comptoir des Fers et Mtaux SA R I Shoylekov, S Weirse L-1882 Luxembourg Electro-Oil International A S Incorporated and operational in DK-2600 Glostrup Luxembourg Incorporated and operational in Directors Denmark R B Bailkoski, P Brecker, T Brophy Directors R Bailkoski, B estergaard, D Rasmussen 144 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Wolseley Finance Parkview No.
2 Service companies Associates Limited Jule B1 Limited Saturn Acquisition Holdings, LLC Incorporated and operational in the Incorporated Guernsey and operational Los Angeles, California 90024 United Kingdom in the United Kingdom Incorporated and operational in the Wolseley Finance Thames Limited Jule P Limited United States of America Incorporated and operational in the Incorporated and operational in United Kingdom Wolseley Directors Guernsey F W Roach, D Keltner Wolseley Finance Theale Limited Jule T Limited Incorporated and operational in the Incorporated and operational in United Kingdom Guernsey Wolseley France SAS Ridge ower Limited All subsidiary undertakings have been Incorporated and operational in France Incorporated and operational in the included in the consolidation.
Wolseley Group Services Limited United Kingdom Shareholdings in companies marked Incorporated and operational in the WF Cherwell LP are held by Wolseley plc.
All other United Kingdom Established and operational in shareholdings in the above mentioned Wolseley Group Holdings Limited Guernsey companies are held by intermediate Incorporated and operational in the subsidiary undertakings.
Wolseley Capital, Inc. United Kingdom Incorporated and operational in the Details of Directors and of cers are Wolseley Holdings Canada Inc. United States of America reported as at 28 September 2009.
Incorporated and operational in Wolseley Capital Limited All shareholdings in the above subsidiary Canada Incorporated and operational in the undertakings are of ordinary shares or Wolseley Holdings Denmark ApS United Kingdom equity capital, plus the following Incorporated and operational in preference shares in the case of: Wolseley Capital Parkview Limited Denmark Incorporated and operational in the Wolseley Finance Isle of Man Wolseley-Hughes Limited United Kingdom Limited Incorporated and operational in the 100% Wolseley Central and United Kingdom Eastern Europe AG Wolseley Insurance Limited Wolseley Insurance Limited Incorporated and operational in 100% Incorporated and operational in the Switzerland Wolseley Investments Inc. Isle of Man Wolseley Europe Limited 100% Wolseley Investments, Inc.
Incorporated and operational in the Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom 100% United States of America Wolseley Finance Gibraltar Limited Wolseley UK Finance Limited Wolseley Investments North Incorporated in Gibraltar and 100% America, Inc. operational in the United Kingdom Incorporated and operational in the Wolseley UK Holdings Limited Wolseley Finance Hawn LLC United States of America 100% Incorporated in the United States Wolseley Nordic Holdings AB of America and operational in the Incorporated and operational in United Kingdom Sweden Wolseley Finance Isis S. a. r. l. Wolseley North American Incorporated and operational in Services, Inc. Luxembourg Incorporated and operational in the Wolseley Finance Isle of Man United States of America Limited Wolseley Overseas Limited Incorporated in the Isle of Man and Incorporated and operational in the operational in the United Kingdom United Kingdom Wolseley Finance Kennet S. a. r. l. Wolseley Overseas Holdings Limited Incorporated and operational in Incorporated and operational in the Luxembourg United Kingdom Wolseley Finance Loddon S. a. r. l. Wolseley UK Finance Limited Incorporated and operational in Incorporated in Guernsey and Luxembourg operational in the United Kingdom Wolseley UK Holdings Limited Incorporated and operational in the United Kingdom Wolseley plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
