Forward-looking statement Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts may be forward-looking and may and often do involve risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations including, without limitation, discussions of the Companys business and financial plans, expected future revenues and expenditures, investments and disposals, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the plumbing and heating and building materials market in North America and Europe, uctuations in product prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
All forward-looking statements in this respect are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this report.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
It is not reasonably possible to itemise all of the many factors and events that could cause the Companys forward-looking statements to be incorrect or that could otherwise have a material adverse effect on the future operations or results of the Company.
148 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Credits Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Board photography by Bill Robinson Paper This report is printed on Revive 50:50 paper and cover board, with Revive Uncoated used in the financial section.
Revive 50:50 is made from 50 per cent recovered waste bre and 50 per cent virgin wood bre.
Revive Uncoated is made from 80 per cent fide-inked post-consumer waste and 20 per cent virgin wood bre.
Both products are fully biodegradable and recyclable and produced in mills which hold ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation.
Printing Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press.
The printing inks are made with nonhazardous vegetable oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place for all other waste associated with this production.
St. Ives Westerham Press is FSC and ISO 14001 certi ed with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all processes.
The greenhouse gas emissions from the production and distribution of this Annual Report and Accounts have been neutralised through a hydro power project in China.
Wolseley plc Parkview 1220 Arlington Business Park Theale Reading RG7 4GA United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 118 929 8700 Fax 44 0 118 929 8701 Registration No.
