Group accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2009 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Foreign currencies accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Items included in the financial statements of each of the IFRS as adopted by the European Union, including Groups subsidiary undertakings are measured using the interpretations issued by the International Accounting currency of the primary economic environment in which the Standards Board IASB and its committees, and with those subsidiary undertaking operates the functional currency.
parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies The consolidated financial statements are presented in reporting under IFRS.
The date of transition to IFRS was sterling, which is the presentational currency of the Group 1 August 2004. and the functional currency of the parent company.
A summary of the principal accounting policies applied by the The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are Group in the preparation of the consolidated financial translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling statements is set out below.
during the relevant financial period.
Basis of accounting The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared period end.
Exchange differences arising between the under the historical cost convention as modified by the translation into sterling of the net assets of these subsidiary revaluation of available-for-sale investments and financial undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the assets and liabilities held for trading.
year are recognised in the currency translation reserve as are exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to the Accounting standards and interpretations extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge adopted during the year against foreign currency net assets.
During the year the following interpretation of published Changes in the fair value and the final settlement value of standards was adopted by the Group: derivative financial instruments, entered into to hedge foreign IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum currency net assets and that satisfy the hedging conditions Funding Requirements and their Interaction of IAS 39, are recognised in the currency translation reserve see the separate accounting policy on derivative financial The adoption of this interpretation has not had a significant instruments.
impact on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
In the event that an overseas subsidiary undertaking is sold, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income Exceptional items statement is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are Exceptional items are those material items which, by virtue of attributable to the subsidiary undertaking concerned.
their size or incidence, are presented separately in the income statement to enable a full understanding of the Groups Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are financial performance.
These exclude impairments of acquired translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the intangibles which are also presented separately in the income dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities statement.
Transactions which may give rise to exceptional denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate items include restructurings of business activities and gains or of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All currency losses on the disposal of businesses.
translation differences are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings to Consolidation the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign currency net assets as detailed above.
The consolidated financial information includes the results of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up Revenue to 31 July 2009.
Revenue is the amount receivable for the provision of goods The trading results of businesses other than discontinued and services falling within the Group's ordinary activities, operations acquired or sold during the year are included in excluding intra-group sales, estimated and actual sales profit on ordinary activities from continuing operations from returns, trade and early settlement discounts, value added tax the date of acquisition or up to the date of sale.
Intra-group transactions and balances and any unrealised Revenue from the provision of goods is recognised when gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are the risks and rewards of ownership of goods have been eliminated on consolidation.
The risks and rewards of ownership of goods are deemed to have been transferred Discontinued operations when the goods are shipped to, or are picked up by, When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a the customer.
business component that represents a separate major line of Revenue from services, other than those that arise from business or geographical area of operations it classifies such construction service contracts see below, are recognised operations as discontinued.
The post-tax profit or loss of the when the service provided to the customer has been discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face completed.
of the income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The income statement for the comparative periods is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from the continuing operations.
78 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Revenue in respect of construction service contracts, where Other intangible assets the Group is providing framing lumber installation services to An intangible asset, which is an identifiable non-monetary residential property companies, is recognised using the asset without physical substance, is recognised to the extent percentage of completion method, with the percentage that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits complete being determined by comparing the percentage of attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and that its cost costs incurred to date with the estimated total costs of the can be measured reliably.
The asset is deemed to be contract.
Losses on these contracts, if any, are recognised in identifiable when it is separable or when it arises from the period when such losses become probable and can be contractual or other legal rights.
Intangible assets, primarily brands, trade names and customer Revenue from the provision of goods and all services is only relationships, acquired as part of a business combination are recognised when the amounts to be recognised are fixed or capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated using the reducing balance Cost of sales method for customer relationships and the straight-line Cost of sales includes purchased goods, the cost of bringing method for other intangible assets.
The cost of the intangible inventory to its present location and condition, and labour and assets is amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: overheads attributable to assembly and construction services.
Customer relationships 4 25 years Trade names and brands 1 15 years Vendor rebates Other 1 4 years The Group enters into arrangements with certain vendors Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, providing for inventory purchase rebates.
These purchase plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible rebates are accrued as earned and are recorded initially as a asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation reduction in inventory with a subsequent reduction in cost of and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include software sales when the related product is sold.
licences, consulting costs attributable to the development, design and implementation of the computer software and Business combinations internal costs directly attributable to the development, design The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting and implementation of the computer software.
Costs in for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
respect of training and data conversion are expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the method so as to charge the cost of the computer software to assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred the income statement over its estimated useful life three to or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly five years.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Property, plant and equipment PPE combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority PPE is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and interest.
accumulated impairment losses, except for land and assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated and The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the acquisition of the items.
In addition, subsequent costs are fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that income statement.
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the Goodwill income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line assets of the acquired subsidiary undertaking at the date of method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiary over its estimated useful life, as follows: undertakings is included in intangible assets.
Freehold buildings and long leaseholds 35 50 years Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment Short leaseholds over the period and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
of the lease Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the Plant and machinery 7 10 years carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Fixtures and fittings 5 7 years Computers 3 5 years Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose Motor vehicles 4 years of impairment testing.
Each of those cash-generating units represents the lowest level within the Group at which the The residual values and useful lives of PPE are reviewed and associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
and are not larger than the reporting segments determined in Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Wolseley plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2009 Leased assets Impairment of assets Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for asset have transferred to the Group, are capitalised in the impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstance balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
term or their useful lives.
The asset is recorded at the lower Assets that are subject to amortisation and assets under of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease construction are tested for impairment whenever events or payments at the inception of the lease.
The capital elements changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount of future obligations under finance leases are included in may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for liabilities in the balance sheet and analysed between current the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its and non-current amounts.
The interest elements of future recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of obligations under finance leases are charged to the income an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the statement over the periods of the leases and represent a purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable outstanding in accordance with the effective interest rate cash flows.
Inventories Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable The cost of operating leases net of any incentives received value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO from the lessor is charged to the income statement on a method or the average cost method as appropriate to the straight-line basis over the periods of the leases.
nature of the transactions in those items of inventory.
The cost of goods purchased for resale includes import and custom Assets and disposal groups held for sale duties, transport and handling costs, freight and packing costs and other attributable costs less trade discounts, Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount rebates and other subsidies.
will be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the business.
Where a group of assets and their directly ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling associated liabilities are to be disposed of in a single expenses.
transaction, such disposal groups are also classified as held for sale.
For this to be the case, the asset or disposal group Taxation must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, and management must be committed to and have initiated a Current tax represents the expected tax payable or plan to sell the asset or disposal group which, when initiated, recoverable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date Assets that are classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale years.
are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on value less costs to sell.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Associates financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a influence but not control, generally accompanying a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the shareholding of between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for profit or loss.
using the equity method of accounting and are initially Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have recognised at cost.
been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are future taxable profit will be available against which the adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When temporary differences can be utilised.
the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse of the associate.
80 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Derivative financial instruments Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other risks arising from the business activities of the Group and the post-retirement benefits are charged to the income statement financing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in as incurred.
For defined benefit pension plans and other retirement At the inception of a hedging transaction entailing the use of benefits, the cost is calculated annually using the projected derivative financial instruments, the Group documents the unit credit method and is recognised over the average relationship between the hedged item and the hedging expected remaining service lives of participating employees, instrument together with its risk management objective and in accordance with the recommendations of independent the strategy underlying the proposed transaction.
The current service cost of defined benefit also documents its assessment, both at the inception of the plans is recorded within operating profit.
The total expected hedging relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, return from pension scheme assets less the total interest on of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in pension scheme liabilities is recorded within finance revenue the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
if a gain and finance costs if an expense.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benefits are recorded within Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and operating profit and recognised on a straight-line basis over liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet the vesting period, or immediately if the benefits have vested.
Where derivative financial instruments do not fulfil the Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39, changes in between the expected and actual returns on the plan assets their fair values are recognised in the income statement.
and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions, are When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging recognised in full in the statement of recognised income and relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow expense in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit hedges or net investment hedges.
Where the hedging liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet comprises the relationship is classified as a fair value hedge, the carrying net total for each plan of the present value of the benefit amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by the obligation at the balance sheet date, less any past service increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged costs not yet recognised, less the fair value of the plan assets, risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income if any, at the balance sheet date.
Where a plan is in surplus, statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it the asset recognised is limited to the amount of any will be offset by the change in the fair value of the hedging unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any instrument.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge amount which the Group expects to recover by way of accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is Trade receivables amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Where the hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge or Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for arising from the hedged risk are recognised directly in equity impairment of trade receivables is established when there is rather than in the income statement.
When the hedged item is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect recognised in the financial statements, the accumulated gains all amounts due according to the original terms of the and losses recognised in equity are either recycled to the receivables.
Examples of such evidence include significant income statement or, if the hedged item results in a nonfinancial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to its initial will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or carrying amount.
When a hedging instrument expires or is delinquency in payments.
The amount of the provision is the sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge difference between the assets carrying amount and the accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected written off against the provision when recoverability is to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in assessed as being remote.
Subsequent recoveries of equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Wolseley plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2009 Construction loans Share capital Construction loan receivables are secured loans made to The Company only has two classes of shares, ordinary and builders to finance the construction of properties or the deferred shares, which are both classified as equity.
These receivables are financed from bank Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new facilities which have a purpose clause under which the Group shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the can borrow to finance construction loan receivables, but only proceeds, net of tax.
to the extent that it has sufficient receivables to offset these borrowings.
This clause has the consequence that any Where any group company purchases the Companys equity borrowings designated for this purpose are repayable when share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, the corresponding receivables are either collected or go into including any directly attributable incremental costs net of default.
In the latter case, amounts not expected to be tax, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys recoverable have to be funded from the Groups normal equity holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or facilities.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly Accordingly, the Group restricts the amount designated as attributable incremental transaction costs and the related tax construction loan borrowings to the recoverable amount of the effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys loan portfolio.
This amount is then disclosed separately in the equity holders.
financial statements as it is not considered part of the Groups net debt.
The construction loan borrowings are classified as a Borrowings current liability since the amounts are repayable when the corresponding receivables are collected, and the receivables Borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of the are classified as current assets.
consideration received net of transaction costs incurred.
Construction loan receivables are recognised initially at fair Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with value and measured subsequently at amortised cost using any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
and the redemption value being recognised in the income A provision for impairment of construction loan receivables is statement over the period of the borrowings using the established when there is objective evidence that the Group effective interest method.
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group original terms of the receivables.
Examples of such evidence has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for include significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments.
The amount of the Financial assets provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows The Group classifies its financial assets in the following collectible from the debtor or recoverable from the disposal of categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: the asset on which the receivable is secured, discounted at loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: and the original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends recognised in the income statement.
Construction loan on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
receivables are written off against the provision when Management determines the classification of its financial recoverability is assessed as being remote.
Subsequent assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the at every reporting date.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents This category comprises financial assets held for trading Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits which have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid in the short term.
Derivatives also fall within this category investments with original maturities of three months or less, unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in this category are borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet to the classified as current.
extent that there is no right of offset and no practice of net settlement with cash balances.
82 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information b Loans and receivables Provisions Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Provisions for environmental restoration, restructuring costs fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an and legal claims are recognised when the Group has a active market and with no intention of trading.
They are present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past included in current assets, except for maturities greater than events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are included in reliably estimated.
Such provisions are measured at the trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
present value of managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the c Held-to-maturity investments balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial present value reflects current market assessments of the time assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed value of money.
Provisions are not recognised for future maturities that the Groups management has the positive operating losses.
intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are included in Provisions for insurance represent an estimate, based on non-current assets unless the investment is due to mature historical experience, of the ultimate cost of settling within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported at the d Available-for-sale financial assets balance sheet date on certain risks retained by the Group.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial Share-based payments assets that are either designated in this category or not Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in Groups executive share option, long-term incentive and non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of employee share purchase schemes.
The Group recognises a the financial asset within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus on the fair value of the awards, measured using Blacktransaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value Scholes, Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
Financial assets are derecognised when For equity-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have date of grant and is not subsequently re-measured unless expired or have been transferred and the Group has the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
For cash-settled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is re-measured at each balance sheet date Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair until the liability is settled.
Generally, the compensation cost is value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual investments are subsequently carried at amortised cost using forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure to satisfy the effective interest method.
Realised and unrealised gains service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category Dividends payable are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Groups in the fair value of non-monetary securities classified as financial statements in the period in which the dividends are available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
When securities approved by the shareholders of the Company generally in classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the the case of the final dividend or paid in the case of interim accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the income dividends.
statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a Group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exits for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Wolseley plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
