Discontinued operations Future outlook On 6 May 2009 the Group announced Wolseley provided a $100 million Market trends since the July trading that it had entered into a joint debtor-in-possession facility during update continue to support the Groups arrangement with the Gores Group LLC the reorganisation, but Stocks cash view that in the short term market Gores which acquired Stock.
Gores ow was suf ciently strong that no conditions will remain challenging driven controls the joint venture, with Wolseley drawdowns were required under this by tight credit conditions, high levels of retaining, as at 31 July 2009, a 44 per facility.
Stock emerged from Chapter 11 foreclosures and rising unemployment cent equity interest and two out of reorganisation on 30 June 2009, at rates.
New residential markets are seven seats on the Board.
Wolseley which date it received $75 million expected to show continuing signs of ceased to consolidate Stock from the of preferred equity from Gores and stabilisation, RMI markets will continue date of the transaction, and as Stock entered into a $150 million banking to decline albeit at a slower rate and had previously been reported as a facility.
Wolseley has no remaining Commercial and Industrial markets are separate major line of business it nancing commitments in relation expected to decline at a faster rate.
has been treated as a discontinued to the joint arrangement.
Further Each segment is likely to recover at operation in the financial statements.
restructuring has been undertaken, different rates dependent on local Wolseley recognised an after tax loss leaving the business focused on 19 economic and credit conditions.
on disposal of 81 million 159 million high-potential residential markets.
Overall, we remain cautious as to the before tax as a result of the transaction.
Stocks markets have continued to be outlook in 2009 10, although pro t For the nine month period of Wolseley weak, with housing starts appearing trends in the second half are expected ownership, Stock had revenue of to stabilise at levels far below historic to improve, driven by cost reduction $1.8 billion 1.1 billion and a trading averages.
Competitors are retrenching actions already taken in 2008 9 which is loss of $182 million 117 million.
and in some cases also undertaking expected to result in incremental bene t Wolseleys equity interest in the joint Chapter 11 restructuring, but so in 2009 10 of 233 million.
During arrangement is accounted for as an far few have gone out of business.
2009 10 actions to lower the cost base investment in an associate and its share Wolseley has recorded 15 million will be taken according to anticipated of the post-tax pro ts or losses of the as its share of the joint arrangements local market conditions, to ensure associate are shown as a single item in losses for the three months to 31 July operational leverage is maximised as the income statement.
2009 including 6 million of exceptional markets recover.
At the same time, the At the date of disposal, Stock entered restructuring costs.
Its investment in the Group will continue to evaluate where into a pre-packaged Chapter 11 associate was stated at 53 million at to prioritise future investment, in order reorganisation, which allowed it 31 July 2009. to develop its leading businesses to reject a net $225 million of lease which are characterised by leading commitments, while ensuring that trade competitive positions and strong creditors were paid in full.
28 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
