Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies The Group accounts for joint venture investments under At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity the equity method which is consistent with the Groups documents the relationship between the hedging instrument treatment of associates.
and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an Other investments ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly Other investments are designated as available for sale and effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows are shown at fair value with any movements in fair value of the hedged item.
Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the On disposal of the security the cumulative gain or loss derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
previously recognised in equity is included in the profit or Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated loss for the year.
Impairment losses recognised in profit or and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss loss for equity investments classified as available for sale immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of are not subsequently reversed through profit or loss.
the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow or Inventory and work in progress net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains realisable value.
and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Trade receivables Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any doubtful debts.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to Foreign currency and interest rate hedging occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange rate Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or management sets out the instruments and methods available other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when to hedge interest and currency risk exposures and the control their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at The Group uses derivative financial instruments to fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the Liabilities in respect of option agreements date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners to The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss require the Group to purchase a minority interest are treated immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as derivatives over equity instruments and are recorded in the as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the balance sheet at fair value and the valuation is remeasured at recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the each period end.
Fair value is based on the present value of hedge relationship.
expected cash outflows and the movement in the fair value WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 147
