Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable which to measure proportional performance when the temporary differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is Income Taxes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the reasonably assured.
extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding & utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than in a Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services business combination in a transaction that affects neither to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Revenue is the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
recognised when the service is performed, in accordance The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
consolidated income statement revenue and related costs Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable as contract activity progresses.
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary Taxation difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against payable and deferred tax.
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
determining the appropriate provision for transactions Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or circumstances the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively enacted taxes based on the best information available and where the legislation.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income anticipated liability is both probable and estimable.
Where statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and with in equity.
deferred tax provisions in the period in which the final determination is made.
The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may Retirement benefit costs be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are For defined contribution schemes, contributions are made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets charged to the consolidated income statement as payable and liabilities where necessary.
in respect of the accounting period.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in operating profit are the current service costs and gains the income statement because it excludes items of income or and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
recognised immediately in the income statement if the The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not vested, the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets are Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or shown within finance costs and finance income respectively.
recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the the statement of comprehensive income.
