About share ownership Information for share owners Share owners register A register of share owners interests is kept at the Companys registrars office in Jersey and is available for inspection on request.
The register includes information on nominee accounts and their beneficial owners.
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2009 Issued share capital as at 31 December 2009: 1,256,491,314 ordinary shares.
the mechanics of the income access share arrangements mean that the Company will declare a second interim rather than a final dividend.
the Board has no plans to announce any additional dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
Share owners who hold more than 100,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividend from a uK source must make an election and should contact Computershare Investor Services for the relevant forms.
Share owners who held 100,000 or fewer WPP ordinary shares on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the london Stock exchange or if later on the first dividend record date after they became share owners in the Company, will be automatically deemed to have elected to receive a uK-sourced dividend.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
unless share owners have made, or are deemed to have made, an election under the Dividend Access Plan, their dividend will be paid from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs Dollar amounts paid to ADR holders depend on the sterling dollar exchange rate at the time of payment.
Each ADR represents five ordinary shares.
No withholding tax is imposed on dividends paid to ADR ADR holders receive the annual and interim reports holders and there will be no entitlement to offset any part issued by WPP plc.
of the notional UK taxation credit against any US taxation WPP plc is subject to the informational requirements of liability.
The dividend received will be subject to US taxation.
the US securities laws applicable to foreign companies and Following the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation files an annual report on Form 20-F and other information Act of 2003, certain dividends subject to US taxation may be with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
These taxed at a reduced rate of 15% if various conditions are met: documents are available at the Commissions website, share owners are advised to consult their professional www.
Our reports on Form 20-F are also available advisors accordingly.
from our Investor Relations department in New York.
ADR dividends Financial calendar ADR holders are eligible for all stock dividends or other The 2009 second interim dividend was paid on 1 April entitlements accruing on the underlying WPP plc shares and 2010 to share owners on the register at 19 March 2010. receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
These are normally Interim statements for the half-year ending 30 June are paid twice a year.
Dividend cheques are mailed directly to the ADR holder on Quarterly trading announcements are issued in April the payment date if ADRs are registered with WPPs US and October.
Dividends on ADRs that are registered with brokers First interim dividends are paid in November.
are sent to the brokers, who forward them to ADR holders.
Preliminary announcements of results for the financial WPPs US depositary is Citibank N. A. address on page 187. year ending 31 December are issued in the first quarter.
Dividends per ADR in respect of each financial year are Annual Reports are posted to share owners in April.
Annual General Meetings are held in Dublin in June.
2 these figures have been translated for convenience purposes only, using the Times telephone 0905 817 1690: calls charged at 75p per approximate average rate for the year shown on page 152. this conversion should not minute at all times.
be construed as a representation that the pound sterling amounts actually represent, or could be converted into, uS dollars at the rates indicated.
Share price information is also available online at www.
186 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 About share ownership Information for share owners Access numbers Ticker symbols Tax information NASDAQ Reuters Bloomberg ordinary shares WPP.
l WPP ln UK taxation American Depositary Shares WPPGY WPPGY.
o WPPGY uS Income tax credits on dividends For dividends received direct from WPP plc or from WPP Online information DAS Limited via the Dividend Access Plan, the tax credit available to individual share owners resident in the UK is WPPs public website, www.
com, provides current one-ninth of the dividend: tax credits are not repayable to and historical financial information, news releases, UK holders with no tax liability.
Individuals whose income trading reports and share price information.
Go to is within the lower or basic tax rate bands are liable to tax www.
at 10% on the dividend income and the tax credit will satisfy their income tax liability on UK dividends.
The higher rate of tax on dividend income is 32.5% increasing to 42.5% for Registrar and transfer office individuals with income of 150,000 or more for dividends received on or after 6 April 2010 with relief available for Computershare Investor Services Channel Islands Limited the tax credit referred to above.
The gross amount of the PO Box 83 dividend will be regarded as the top slice of the WPP share Ordnance House owners income and will be subject to UK income tax as 31 Pier Road set out above.
St Helier Dividends paid by WPP plc will generally be subject to Jersey JE4 8PW Irish dividend withholding tax DWT at the standard rate Enquiry number: 0870 707 1411 of income tax currently 20% unless the share owner is within one of the categories of exempt share holders as provided in Irish law or by virtue of a relevant tax treaty.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs office DWT is not payable where an exemption applies provided that WPP plc has received all necessary documentation Citibank N. A. required by the relevant legislation from a WPP share PO Box 43077 owner prior to the payment of the dividend.
Share owners Providence are advised to consult their professional advisors on this RI 02940-3077 point.
Where a non-Irish resident share owner is entitled to exemption from DWT but DWT has to be deducted Telephone enquiries: within the US 1 877 248 4237 from the dividend by WPP, a claim may be made for a Telephone enquiries: outside the US 1 781 575 4555 refund of the DWT to the Irish tax authorities.
com Dividends received from WPP plc by individual share owners resident in the UK will generally be subject to UK income tax on the gross amount of any dividends paid by WPP registered office WPP before deduction of Irish withholding tax if any.
UK resident WPP share owners may be able to apply for an 22 Grenville Street exemption from withholding taxes under Irish domestic law St Helier or the UK-Ireland double tax treaty.
Her Majestys Revenue Jersey JE4 8PX & Customs will generally give credit such credit being limited to the UK-Ireland double tax treaty rate for any The Companys registered number is 101749.
Irish dividend withholding tax withheld from the payment of a dividend if any and not recoverable from the Irish tax authorities against the UK income tax payable in respect of the gross amount of the dividend.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 187 About share ownership Information for share owners Capital gains tax An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP The market value of an ordinary share at 31 March 1982 share owner who receives dividends from WPP DAS Limited was 39p.
Since that date rights issues have occurred in via the Dividend Access Plan will be taxed upon the cash September 1986, August 1987 and April 1993.
For capital dividend received at their marginal rate of tax plus the gains tax purposes the acquisition cost of ordinary shares health levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI.
Irish is adjusted to take account of such rights issues.
Since any resident taxpayers will not be entitled to claim credit for, adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, share or repayment of, the one-ninth UK tax credit attaching to owners are advised to consult their professional advisors.
such dividends for UK tax purposes.
Republic of Ireland taxation Capital gains As liability to capital gains tax on a disposal of WPP shares Income tax credits on dividends will depend on individual circumstances, share owners are An Irish resident or ordinarily resident individual WPP share advised to consult their professional advisors.
owner who is an individual who does not make, or is not deemed to have made, an election to receive dividends via the Dividend Access Plan will be subject to Irish income tax on the gross dividend at their marginal rate of tax plus the health levy and, in certain circumstances, PRSI pay related social insurance.
The gross dividend is the dividend received plus DWT withheld.
Irish resident individual WPP share owners are generally entitled to credit for the DWT deducted against their income tax liability and to have refunded to them any amount by which DWT exceeds such income tax liability.
If a WPP share owner makes, or is deemed to have made, an election in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Plan in respect of dividends to be paid by WPP, such WPP share owner will receive dividends direct from WPP DAS Limited.
No DWT will be levied on dividends paid by WPP DAS Limited.
