Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies all acquisition-related costs must be recognised as an assessment, the directors concluded that the reportable expense in the period they are incurred: business segments identified under the previous standard contingent consideration payable is to be measured at fair IAS 14 Segmental Reporting remain appropriate under value at the acquisition date.
Any subsequent movements IFRS 8. in the fair value of such consideration as a result of postDuring the year, the Group also adopted IAS 1 revised acquisition events such as changes in estimates of earnout Presentation of Financial Statements which requires the consideration must be recognised as a gain or loss in the presentation of a statement of changes in equity as a primary income statement: statement.
As a result, a consolidated statement of changes in equity interests held prior to control being obtained must equity has been included in the primary statements, showing be re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date, with changes in each component of equity for each year presented.
any gain or loss recognised in the income statement: and increases in ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions Critical judgements in applying among equity holders and are reported within equity.
accounting policies No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
Management is required to make key decisions and The revisions to the standards apply prospectively to judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting business combinations for which the acquisition date is policies.
The most significant areas where such judgements on or after the first annual financial reporting period have been necessary are revenue recognition, goodwill beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Consequently, the and other intangibles, acquisition reserves, taxation and impact that these revised standards will have on the accounting for pension liabilities.
Where judgement has been financial statements of the Group will depend on the applied, the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed circumstances of business combinations occurring on in the accounting policies and the appropriate note in these or after 1 January 2010. financial statements.
In the current year, the following Standards and Interpretations issued became effective: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty: Directors responsibility statement IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers: applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended : Cost of an Investment view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate: loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs: and consolidation taken as a whole: and IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended : Puttable Financial the management report, which is incorporated into the Instruments and Obligations arising on Liquidation.
Directors report, includes a fair review of the development The adoption of these Standards and Interpretations has and performance of the business and the position of the not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation The Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments during taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal the year.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified risks and uncertainties they face.
on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance and allocation of resources by the Group chief executive.
Provided certain quantitative and qualitative Sir Martin Sorrell Paul Richardson criteria are fulfilled, IFRS 8 permits the aggregation of these Group chief executive Group finance director components into reportable segments for the purposes of 16 April 2010 disclosure in the Groups financial statements.
In assessing the Groups reportable segments, the directors have had regard to the similar economic characteristics of certain operating segments, their shared client base, the similar nature of their products or services and their long-term margins, amongst other factors.
As a result of this WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 151
