Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies Where defined benefit schemes are funded, the assets of to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in such operations are reported in the consolidated statement separate trustee-administered funds.
Pension scheme assets of comprehensive income.
are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
Share-based payments Recognition of a surplus in the defined benefit schemes is limited based on the economic gain the company is expected The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to benefit from in the future by means of a refund or including share options to certain employees and accounts reduction in future contributions to the plan, in accordance for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details regarding the Finance leases fair value of equity settled share-based transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower in the income statement as an expense on a straight-line of their fair value and the present value of the minimum basis over the relevant vesting period, based on the Groups lease payments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged estimate of the number of shares that will ultimately vest and to the consolidated income statement on the same basis as adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement as it is incurred.
New IFRS accounting pronouncements At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, Operating leases the following Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement not yet effective: on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or IFRIC 14 amended IAS 19 amended : The Limit on discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements of the lease on a straight-line basis.
and their Interaction: IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments: Translation of foreign currencies IFRS 2 amended : Share-Based Payment: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading IAS 24 revised : Related Party Transactions: activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of IAS 32 amended : Classification of Rights Issues.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated The Group does not consider that these Standards and in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the Interpretations will have a significant impact on the financial year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses statements of the Group except for additional disclosures are credited or charged to the consolidated income statement when the relevant standards come into effect for periods as they arise.
commencing on or after 1 January 2010.
The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings In addition, IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange rates and IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial and the year-end net assets of these companies are translated Statements become effective for the Group in the year ended at year-end exchange rates.
The revisions to these standards will Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the apply to business combinations completed after 1 January opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings 2010.
The main changes under the revised standards are: 150 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
