Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies is recognised as income or expense within revaluation of Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, financial instruments in the consolidated income statement.
in accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related to Derecognition of financial liabilities quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the the incentive is received or receivable.
Group is only released to the income statement when the The Group receives volume rebates from certain suppliers underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
If amounts are Convertible debt passed on to clients they are recorded as liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are recorded as revenue Convertible debt is assessed according to the substance of when earned.
the contractual arrangements and is classified into liability and equity elements on the basis of the initial fair value Consumer Insight of the liability element.
The difference between this figure and the cash received is classified as equity.
Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service The income statement charge for the finance cost is performed for market research contracts is based on spread evenly over the term of the convertible debt so that proportional performance.
In assessing contract at redemption the liability equals the redemption value.
performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of performance.
The primary input of all work performed Bank borrowings under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour and cost, there is normally Other interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are a direct relationship between costs incurred and the recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial proportional performance measure.
Borrowing costs This indicative proportional performance measure is subsequently validated against other more subjective criteria Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the income i. e. relevant output measures such as the percentage of statement over the term of those borrowings.
interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of divergence Revenue recognition between the objective and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures take precedence since these Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect are output measures.
Direct costs include fees paid to external While most of the studies provided in connection suppliers where they are retained to perform part or all of with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken a specific project for a client and the resulting expenditure is in response to an individual clients or group of clients directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated specifications, in certain instances a study may be developed exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the Advertising and Media Investment Management product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media recognised over the subscription period on a straight-line placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge agreed upon with each client.
where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a 148 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
