Our 2009 financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements the Groups borrowings are evenly distributed between fixed and floating rate Interest rate risk debt.
Given the strong cash generation of the business, its debt maturity profile and A one percentage point increase in market interest rates for all currencies in which available facilities, the directors believe the Group has sufficient liquidity to match the Group had cash and borrowings at 31 December 2009 would decrease profit its requirements for the foreseeable future.
before tax by approximately 2.4 million 2008: 13.2 million.
A one percentage decrease in market interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect.
this has Treasury activities been calculated by applying the interest rate change to the Groups variable rate treasury activity is managed centrally from london, new York and Hong Kong, cash and borrowings.
and is principally concerned with the monitoring of working capital, managing external and internal funding requirements and the monitoring and management 25.
Financial instruments of financial market risks, in particular interest rate and foreign exchange exposures.
the treasury operation is not a profit centre and its activities are carried out in Currency derivatives accordance with policies approved by the Board of Directors and subject to regular the Group utilises currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and review and audit.
cash flows and the exchange risk arising on translation of the Groups investments in foreign operations.
the Group is a party to a variety of foreign currency derivatives Financings completed in the year included the issue of 450 million 5.75% bonds in the management of its exchange rate exposures.
the instruments purchased are due May 2014 convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and $600 million primarily denominated in the currencies of the Groups principal markets.
of 8% bonds due September 2014. these new bonds re-financed the 650 million term facility and drawings under the 600 million amortising revolving Credit At 31 December 2009, the fair value of the Groups currency derivatives is Facility both of which were arranged to assist in the financing of the acquisition estimated to be a net liability of approximately 3.1 million 2008: 14.2 million.
of tnS in 2008. these amounts are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date, comprising 79.6 million 2008: 25.8 million assets included the Group manages liquidity risk by ensuring continuity and flexibility of funding in trade and other receivables and 82.7 million 2008: 40.0 million liabilities even in difficult market conditions.
undrawn committed borrowing facilities are included in trade and other payables.
the amounts charged to and deferred in maintained in excess of peak net-borrowing levels and debt maturities are closely equity during the year for currency derivatives that are designated and effective monitored.
targets for average net debt are set on an annual basis and, to assist hedges amounts of 111.1 million 2008: 293.3 million for net investment hedges in meeting this, working capital targets are set for all the Groups major operations.
and 60.5 million 2008: 235.9 million for cash flow hedges.
Capital risk management Changes in the fair value relating to the ineffective portion of the currency the Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to derivatives amounted to a gain of 3.3 million 2008: gain of 2.7 million, 2007: continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through charge of 7.0 million which is included in the revaluation of financial instruments the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
the capital structure of the Group for the year.
this gain resulted from a 53.9 million gain on hedging instruments consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 10, cash and cash and a 50.6 million loss on hedged items.
equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the consolidated the Group currently designates its foreign currency-denominated debt and statement of changes in equity and in notes 26 and 27. cross-currency swaps as hedging instruments against the currency risk associated with the translation of its foreign operations.
Credit risk the Groups principal financial assets are cash and short-term deposits, trade and At the balance sheet date, the total nominal amount of outstanding forward foreign other receivables and investments, the carrying values of which represent the exchange contracts not designated as hedges was 309.4 million 2008: 965.8 Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets, as shown million.
the Group estimates the fair value of these contracts is 4.6 million in note 25.
the Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
the majority these arrangements are designed to address significant exchange exposure and of the Groups trade receivables are due from large national or multinational are renewed on a revolving basis as required.
companies where the risk of default is considered low.
the amounts presented Interest rate swaps in the consolidated balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, the Group uses interest rate swaps as hedging instruments in fair value hedges estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its borrowings.
Contracts assessment of the current economic environment.
A relatively small number of with nominal values of 1600 million have fixed interest receipts at 4.38% up until clients make up a significant percentage of the Groups debtors, but no single client December 2013 and have floating interest payments averaging eurIBor plus represents more than 5% of total trade receivables as at 31 December 2009.
Contracts with a nominal value of 1500 million have fixed interest receipts the credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because of 5.25% up until January 2015 and have floating interest payments averaging the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international eurIBor plus 0.80%.
Contracts with a nominal value of 1100 million have fixed credit-rating agencies or banks that have been financed by their government.
interest payments of 5.56% until June 2014 and have floating rate receipts averaging eurIBor plus 0.96%.
A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant percentage of the Groups consolidated revenues.
the Groups clients generally are able to reduce advertising Contracts with a nominal value of 200 million have fixed interest receipts of 6.00% and marketing spending or cancel projects at any time for any reason.
there can be up until April 2017 and have floating rate payments averaging lIBor plus 0.64%.
no assurance that any of the Groups clients will continue to utilise the Groups services Contracts with a nominal value of 25 million have fixed interest receipts of 6.51% to the same extent, or at all, in the future.
A significant reduction in advertising and up until July 2017 and floating rate payments averaging lIBor plus 0.67%.
marketing spending by, or the loss of one or more of, the Groups largest clients, if not A contract with a nominal value of $45 million has fixed interest receipts averaging replaced by new client accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, 6.28% until on average July 2013 and has floating rate payments averaging lIBor would adversely affect the Groups prospects, business, financial condition and results plus 0.59%.
the fair value of interest rate swaps entered into at 31 December 2009 is estimated to Sensitivity analysis be a net asset of approximately 103.0 million 2008: 78.2 million.
these amounts the following sensitivity analysis addresses the effect of currency and interest rate are based on market values of equivalent instruments at the balance sheet date, risks on the Groups financial instruments.
the analysis assumes that all hedges are comprising 103.2 million 2008: 124.7 million assets included in trade and other highly effective.
receivables and 0.2 million 2008: 46.5 million liabilities included in trade and Currency risk other payables.
A 10% weakening of sterling against the Groups major currencies would result in the Changes in the fair value relating to the ineffective portion of interest rate swaps following losses, which would be posted directly to equity.
these losses would arise amounted to a gain of 11.7 million 2008: charge of 13.0 million, 2007: charge of on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated borrowings and derivatives 0.1 million which is included in the revaluation of financial instruments for the year.
designated as effective net investment hedges of overseas net assets.
these losses this charge resulted from a 22.1 million loss on hedging instruments and a would be offset in equity by a corresponding gain arising on the retranslation of the 33.8 million gain on hedged items.
related hedged foreign currency net assets.
A 10% strengthening of sterling would have an equal and opposite effect.
there are no other material foreign exchange exposures which would create gains or losses to the functional reporting currencies of individual entities in the Group.
