Our 2009 financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Contingent consideration Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of separable corporate brand names, acquired customer contingent consideration earnouts are based on the relationships, acquired proprietary tools and capitalised directors best estimates of future obligations, which are computer software not integral to a related item of hardware.
dependent on the future performance of the interests Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed acquired and assume the operating companies improve to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings profits in line with directors estimates.
When earnouts over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including are to be settled by cash consideration, the fair value of intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
Goodwill the consideration is obtained by discounting the amounts arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS expected to be payable in the future to their present value.
1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK The resulting interest charge is included within finance costs.
GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in Property, plant and equipment determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
goodwill is compared to the net present value of future The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant cash flows derived from the underlying assets using a and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
projection period of up to five years for each cash-generating Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the Group unit.
After the projection period a steady growth rate applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets representing an appropriate long-term growth rate for in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
This process the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write Corporate brand names, customer relationships and off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as Freehold buildings 50 years.
intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease initial recognition and it is probable that the expected future or life of the asset, if shorter.
economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability Interests in associates and joint ventures to maintain market leadership and profitable operations over long periods of time and the Groups commitment to The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value of these undertakings net of tax, interest and minority interest is intangible assets is reviewed at least annually for impairment included in the consolidated income statement and the and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
Groups share of net assets is shown within interests in Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted Acquired intangibles to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate Customer related intangibles 3-10 years.
undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, Other including capitalised computer software the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing 3-5 years.
the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
