122 Investor Information Investor Information Investor relations website Giving your shares to charity WS Atkins plc Many commonly asked shareholders If you only have a small number of shares Registered in England.
questions are addressed in the investor whose value makes it uneconomic to sell Company no.
1885586 relations section of our website them, you may wish to consider donating www.
com investors them to charity through ShareGift, an independent share donation scheme.
The Company Secretary and E-communications relevant share transfer form can be obtained Registered Office Shareholders can choose to receive all from the registrar.
ShareGift is administered Company communications electronically.
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, Richard Webster To register please visit our share portal at registered charity number 1052686.
com Further information may be obtained Woodcote Grove on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or from Ashley Road Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP www.
org Epsom The Company offers a dividend reinvestment Surrey KT18 5BW plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient Identity theft way of increasing their shareholding in the Identity theft is on the increase.
Should you wish to participate may steal your personal information, putting Financial Calendar in the DRIP please contact the registrar your Atkins shareholding at risk.
on the telephone number given above to Ex-dividend date 12 August 2009 request a mandate form and an explanatory Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: Record date 14 August 2009 booklet.
Your completed mandate form Annual General must be received by the registrar no later Ensure all your certificates are kept in a Meeting 9 September 2009 than 26 August 2009 if you wish your final safe place or hold your shares electronically Final dividend dividend for the year to be reinvested to buy in CREST via a nominee.
payment date 25 September 2009 additional shares.
Keep all correspondence from the registrar Amalgamation of accounts that shows your shareholder reference Shareholder Services Shareholders who receive duplicate sets number in a safe place, or destroy your Registrar of Company mailings owing to multiple correspondence by shredding it.
Enquiries and notifications concerning accounts in their name should write dividends, share certificates, transfers and to the registrar to have their accounts If you change address inform the registrar address changes should be sent to the amalgamated.
in writing or via our share portal registrar, whose address is: www.
com Unsolicited mail Capita Registrars The Company is obliged by law to make Know when dividends are paid and Northern House its share register available to other consider having your dividend paid directly Woodsome Park organisations who may then use it for into your bank account.
This will reduce Fenay Bridge a mailing list.
If you wish to limit receipt of the risk of the cheque being intercepted Huddersfield unsolicited mail you may do so by registering or lost in the post.
If you change your bank West Yorkshire with the Mailing Preference Service MPS.
account, inform the registrar of the details HD8 0GA Registration can be made in writing to: The of your new account.
You can do this Mailing Preference Service MPS, Freepost by post or online using our share portal Telephone: 0871 664 0300 UK callers, 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT or online www.
Respond to any calls cost 10p per minute including VAT at www.
uk or via telephone letters the registrar send you about this.
plus any additional network charges on 0845 7034599. or 44 20 8639 3399 non-UK callers.
Other shareholder enquiries should be addressed to the company secretary at the registered office.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Investor Information 123 If you receive a letter from the registrar If you receive any unsolicited investment regarding a change of address or a advice: dividend instruction but have not recently moved or requested a change to how you Make sure you get the correct name of the receive your dividends, please contact person and organisation.
them immediately as you may have been a victim of identity theft.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
You can If you are buying or selling shares only deal check at www.
uk register with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are Warning to shareholders targeting, or have targeted, UK investors Over the last year many companies have and any approach from such organisations become aware that their shareholders should be reported to the FSA so that this have received unsolicited telephone calls list can be kept up to date and any other or correspondence concerning investment appropriate action can be considered.
These are typically from overseasyou deal with an unauthorised firm, you based brokers who target UK shareholders would not be eligible to receive payment offering to sell them what often turn out to under the Financial Services Compensation be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by investments.
They can be very persistent and completing an online form at http: www.
extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by fsa.
uk pages doing regulated law the Financial Services Authority FSA has alerts overseas.
shtml reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just Inform our registrar.
the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been Details of any share-dealing facilities that successfully investing for several years.
the Company endorses will be included in Shareholders are advised to be very wary Company mailings.
of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free More detailed information on this or similar company reports.
activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 124 Investor Information You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports and Presentations Corporate Responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting this Links to results presentations, section of our website.
press releases and webcasts are also provided.
Shareholders Queries Share Price We provide a number of Chart showing one, two or three services to help our shareholders months share price activity.
Click manage their holdings, keep up the chart to see the share price to date with our progress and table and to access our calculators.
Latest Financial News Access our latest financial press Register for e-comms releases here.
You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications e-comms.
Click Register to sign up.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
Investor information can also be viewed on your mobile phone at www.
mobi Share Price Share Price Charts Latest News Investor Relations Team Calendar WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Governance 01 Financial Highlights 46 Board of Directors 02 Group at a Glance 48 Directors Report 04 Business Segments 52 Corporate Governance Report 06 Chairmans Statement 58 Remuneration Report 08 Chief Executives Statement 65 Independent Auditors Report Reviews Financial Statements 14 Human Resources Review 68 Consolidated Income Statement 18 Business Review 69 Consolidated and Parent Company 18 Overview of the business Statements of Recognised Income and performance in the year and Expense 20 Segmental performance 70 Consolidated and Parent Company 20 Design and Engineering Solutions Balance Sheets 22 Highways and Transportation 71 Consolidated and Parent Company 24 Rail Cash Flow Statements 26 Middle East, China and Europe 72 Notes to the Financial Statements 30 Management and Project Services 118 Five-Year Summary 32 Asset Management Investor Information 34 Financial performance 122 Company Information 37 Principal risks and uncertainties 122 Financial Calendar 38 Corporate Responsibility Review 122 Shareholder Services This Annual Report is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected Environmental impact waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is TCF Totally Chlorine At Atkins we are genuinely concerned Free, totally recyclable and has biodegradable NAPM about our environmental performance.
As such, we would encourage you to access shareholder information online at The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable are trademarks of Atkins Limited, www.
com investors or on your a WS Atkins plc company.
mobi WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 info@atkinsglobal.
