annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Information glossary of terms A Company Xchanging plc.
I AGI allianz global investors IAS international accounting Standards.
Continental Europe one of  mbh.
IFRIC international Financial Reporting AGM annual general Meeting.
CAGR compound annual growth rate.
IFRS international Financial Reporting CSR corporate social responsibility.
Asia Pacific one of Xchangings segments regions.
D DAB bank AG die direkt anlage Bank.
BaFin german Federal Financial E IPO initial public offering.
Supervisory authority overseeing EBITDA underlying operating profit banking, insurance, securities and ITO information Technology before depreciation and amortisation.
EdW  der Board the Board of directors of .
K Enterprise Partnership or EP KPI key performance indicator.
a corporate partnership between Business Processing Services Xchanging and a customer.
L one of the business units in Xchangings EU European Union.
LIBOR london interbank Offered Rate.
EURIBOR Euro interbank Offered Rate.
Business Support advice on, and M management of, back office functions.
F MEAG MEag MUnich ERgO FDB Fondsdepot Bank gmbh.
Cambridge cambridge Solutions N limited and its subsidiaries and subsidiary FSB FondsServiceBank gmbh.
NAGE national australia group undertakings.
Europe ltd. Cash conversion ratio cash generated G Nearshore a region neighbouring that from operations excluding pre cash Gain-share the allocation of achieved to where the services are provided, and exceptional items divided by Xchangings cost savings benefit between Xchanging to which the performance of such services underlying operating profit.
is relocated, generally because the cost of CBRE cB Richard Ellis.
Global Procurement Xchangings performance is lower than it would be in segment in which we manage direct and CEO chief Executive Officer.
the region or country where the services indirect spend and sourcing strategies.
Group or Xchanging Xchanging CGU cash-generating unit.
plc and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings.
120 X c h a n g i ng plc O S Underlying profit for the year Offshore a region that doesnt SEE social, ethical and environmental.
underlying profit for the year excludes neighbour that where the services are exceptional items, amortisation of SG&A sales, general and administration.
provided, and to which the performance intangible assets previously unrecognised SID Senior independent director.
of such services is relocated, generally by acquired entities, imputed interest because the cost of performance is on put options, and the tax impact of lower than it would be in the country these items.
T where the services are provided The Americas one of Xchangings e. g. india or Malaysia.
X On-site where Xchanging operations Xchanging Broking Services or XBS Tier 3 locations centres that have a are located at the customers site.
Xchanging Broking Services limited, an capacity to provide a workforce and a Ep between Xchanging and aon ltd. potential resource pool to an outsourcing Outsourcing one of Xchangings key company, but have yet to establish this.
Xchanging or Group Xchanging plc and its subsidiaries and subsidiary Tier 4 locations a tier 3 location, undertakings.
except the workforce and resource pool P is not as large.
Partnering one of Xchangings key Xchanging Transaction Bank or XTB contracting mechanisms for dealing with Xchanging Transaction Bank gmbh, an complexity and scale.
an open-book Ep between Xchanging, deutsche Bank U partnership owned jointly by Xchanging and Sal Oppenheim.
UK one of Xchangings segments and the customer.
regions or the United Kingdom.
XEBIT underlying operating profit PSP performance Share plan.
attributable to equity holders of UK GAAP UK generally accepted Xchanging plc shares.
R XEBITDA underlying operating profit Underlying earnings per share EPS Resolutions resolutions to be proposed before depreciation and amortisation Xchangings share of underlying profit for at the Xchanging plc annual general attributable to equity holders of the year divided by the weighted average Meeting and set out in the notice of Xchanging plc shares.
basic number of Xchanging plc shares in annual general Meeting.
issue for the year ended 31 december.
Underlying operating profit XPC Xchanging performance underlying operating profit excludes Revenue visibility recurring revenue committee.
exceptional items and amortisation of comprising three components: annuity, intangible assets previously unrecognised volume at risk and renewals.
Find out more about Xchanging on our website www.
com This document has been printed on hello Silk which is Forest Stewardship council certified FSc and manufactured at a mill which holds both the iSO 14001 and EMaS environmental management standards.
This paper is fully recyclable Cert no.
designed and produced by cypher design.
printed by Spellman Walker ltd. Spellman Walker ltd is an FSc and iSO 14001 certified printer that uses vegetable inks and alcohol-free printing processes.
Our aim is the radical improvement of business processing.
We are a powerful force for change, bringing better service, cost savings and an entrepreneurial culture to everything we do.
hence our motto Xchanging cost for profit.
2010 Xchanging plc Registered in England and Wales company number 5819018 Registered office: Xchanging plc 13 hanover Square london W1S 1hn UK Telephone 44 0 20 7780 6999 Facsimile 44 0 20 7780 6998 Email info@xchanging.
