annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 1 General information The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under Xchanging plc the company and its subsidiaries together the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation the group provide a range of industry specific processing of available-for-sale financial assets, other financial assets and services to the banking and insurance industries as well as financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss, procurement, finance and accounting, human resources and in addition to the fair valuation of share-based payments.
The nature of the groups a summary of the most significant group accounting policies operations and its principal activities are discussed further is set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with EU Xchanging plc is a public limited company incorporated and endorsed iFRS requires the use of judgements, estimates and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and 13 hanover Square, london, W1S 1hn.
The companys liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported ordinary shares are traded on the london Stock Exchange.
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
although these estimates are based on managements best 2 Principal accounting policies knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation ultimately may differ from those estimates.
note 3 of these of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies financial statements sets out the areas where significant have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless judgements, estimates and assumptions have been made.
a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 i Basis of preparation of the financial statements iaS 1 revised, presentation of financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared on the going The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of concern basis, and in accordance with the European Union EU income and expenses that is non-owner changes in equity endorsed international Financial Reporting Standards iFRS, in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner iFRic interpretations and with those parts of the companies changes in equity to be presented separately from owner act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under iFRS.
all non-owner changes in equity are required to be shown in a performance statement.
Under the all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 revised standard, entities can choose whether to present one except where otherwise stated.
performance statement the statement of comprehensive income or two statements the income statement and The directors, having carried out a review of the groups 2008 statement of comprehensive income.
The group has elected financial statements, have made a presentational change to the to present two statements.
comparative information has income statement in this annual report.
The group has opted to been re-presented so that it is also in conformity with the present its income statement for the years ended 31 december revised standard.
The change is a presentational change only, 2009 and 31 december 2008 in a three-column format.
Such with no impact on earnings per share presentation allows exceptional items charged to cost of sales, iFRS 2, Share-based payment amendment.
The amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an amendment deals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
acquired entity charged to cost of sales and imputed interest it clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions on both put options and employee loans charged to net finance and performance conditions only: other features of a costs and the related taxation to be presented separately in share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
These the middle column of the income statement.
The various line features are therefore to be included in the fair value exercise items of the income statement are therefore shown both before at grant date for transactions with employees and other and after these items in the first and last columns, respectively.
parties providing similar services: they should not impact This allows shareholders to understand better the elements of the number of awards expected to vest or valuation thereof financial performance in the current period, so as to facilitate subsequent to grant date.
all cancellations, whether by comparison with the prior periods.
the entity or other parties, are required to receive the same accounting treatment.
This amendment will not impact the financial statements 60 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 2 Principal accounting policies continued There have been a number of minor amendments to iaS 1, i Basis of preparation of the financial statements presentation of financial statements, iaS 16, property, continued plant and equipment, iaS 19, Employee benefits, a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 iaS 27, consolidated and separate financial statements, continued iaS 36, impairment of assets, iaS 38, intangible iFRS 7, Financial instruments disclosures amendment.
assets, iaS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair and measurement which are part of the iaSBs annual value measurement and liquidity risk.
in particular, the improvement project published in May 2008 and are amendment requires disclosures of fair value measurements considered relevant to the group.
as none of these will have by level of fair value measurement hierarchy.
These a significant impact on the groups financial statements, they disclosures are included in note 32, Financial instruments have not been analysed in detail.
iFRS 8 replaces iaS 14, Segment reporting.
it requires a management approach b Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2009 to be adopted, under which segment information is but not relevant for the Group presented on the same basis as for internal reporting The following standards, amendments and interpretations are purposes.
This new standard, combined with the mandatory for the first time for the current accounting period management organisational and reporting restructuring but are not relevant to the groups operations: exercise undertaken following the acquisition of cambridge iaS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs Solutions limited, has resulted in a new segmental format iaS 1 amendment, presentation of financial statements being presented by the group.
Operating segments iaS 32 amendment, Financial instruments presentation are reported in a manner consistent with the internal iFRS 1 amendment, First-time adoption of iFRS reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
There have been a number of minor amendments to iFRS The chief operating decision-maker has been identified 5, non-current assets held for sale and discontinued as the Xchanging Management Board XMB, the primary operations, iaS 20, government grants and assistance, executive body responsible for all major operating decisions.
iaS 28, investments in associates, iaS 29, Financial comparatives for 2008 have been restated under the new reporting in hyperinflationary economies and iaS 40, segmental format investment property which are part of the iaSBs annual iFRic 14, iaS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, improvement project published in May 2008 but are not minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
considered relevant to the group and therefore have not iFRic 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in iaS been analysed in detail.
19 on the amount of surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
it also provides an explanation for how the pension c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the minimum funding requirement.
This interpretation will not Group have a significant impact on the groups financial statements The following new standards and interpretations to existing iFRic 16, hedges of a net investment in a foreign standards have been published and are mandatory for the operation.
iFRic 16 clarifies the accounting treatment in groups future accounting periods but which the group has respect of a net investment hedge.
This includes the fact not early adopted: that net investment hedging relates to differences in iaS 27 revised, consolidated and separate financial functional currency not presentation currency, and hedging statements.
The revision to the standard requires the instruments may be held anywhere in the group.
The effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to requirements of iaS 21, The effects of changes in foreign be recorded in equity if there is no change in control, and exchange rates do apply to the hedged item.
The impact these transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains of this clarification will not have a material impact on the and losses being recognised.
The standard also specifies groups financial statements the accounting treatment to be applied when control over a subsidiary is lost.
any remaining interest in the entity is re-measured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The group will apply iaS 27 revised prospectively from 1 January 2010.
The financial effect of the adoption of this standard will be dependent on the circumstances surrounding the future transactions to which they apply, that are at present unknown X c h a n g i ng plc 61 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued d Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective i Basis of preparation of the financial statements and not relevant for the Groups operations continued The following interpretations to existing standards have been c New standards and interpretations to existing standards that published and endorsed by the EU and are mandatory for the are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January Group continued 2010 but are not relevant for the groups operations: iaS 24 revised, Related party disclosures.
The revision iaS 28, investments in associates consequential to the standard includes a revised definition of what amendment arising from amendments to iFRS 3 constitutes a related party and will be applied by the group iaS 31, investments in joint ventures consequential from 1 January 2011.
This revision is considered unlikely to amendment arising from amendments to iFRS 3 have an impact on the related party disclosures provided in iaS 32, Financial instruments presentation the groups financial statements amendments relating to classification of rights issues iFRS 3 revised, Business combinations comprehensive iaS 39, Financial instruments Recognition and revision on applying the acquisition method effective measurement amendments for embedded derivatives from 1 July 2009.
This revision will impact the way future when reclassifying financial instruments acquisitions are reported.
The group will apply iFRS 3 iaS 39, Financial instruments Recognition and revised from 1 January 2010 with the main changes measurement amendments for eligible hedged items being that directly attributable costs such as advisers fees iFRS 1 amendment, First-time adoption of iFRS and stamp duty will be charged to the income statement, iFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment revisions to contingent cash consideration in the period iFRic 17, distributions of non-cash assets to owners following the acquisition will be recorded in the income iFRic 18, Transfers of assets from customers.
statement and any difference between the fair value of the consideration in the buy out of minority interests and the ii Basis of consolidation value of their reported minority interest will be recorded The group financial statements consolidate those of the against equity rather than goodwill.
The financial effect company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to of the adoption of this standard will be dependent on the 31 december each year and are based on consistent accounting circumstances surrounding the future transactions to which policies.
Subsidiary undertakings include those companies in they apply, that are at present unknown which the company has a 50% equity stake, commonly referred iFRS 9, Financial instruments classification and to by the directors as Enterprise partnerships, but over which measurement.
iFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the company has the power of overall operational and classifying and measuring financial assets.
are still assessing the impact of this new standard on the financial statements interests acquired in subsidiary undertakings are consolidated There are a number of minor amendments to iFRS 2, from the date power to control passes to the group.
Share-based payment, iFRS 5, non-current assets held Transactions and balances, including unrealised profits and for sale and discontinued operations, iFRS 8, Operating losses, between group companies are eliminated.
The interest segments, iaS 1, presentation of financial statements, of minority shareholders in the balance sheet is stated at the iaS 7, Statement of cash flows, iaS 17, leases, iaS 36, minoritys proportion of the carrying values of the assets and impairment of assets, iaS 38, intangible assets, and iaS liabilities recognised.
39, Financial instruments Recognition and measurement which are part of the iaSBs annual improvements project iii Business combinations published in april 2009.
These amendments are unlikely to Business combinations are accounted for under the purchase have a significant impact on the groups financial statements, method of accounting as set out in iFRS 3. a business and have therefore not been analysed in detail.
combination is deemed to have occurred where the group acquires a third party business, either in whole or in part, so that it obtains control of that business.
62 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 2 Principal accounting policies continued Revenue from the servicing of claims comprises claims processing iii Business combinations continued and fees arising from the administration of programmes is identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a recognised either in accordance with estimated claims closure business combination are measured initially at their fair values ratios, or over the period of the underlying service contract, as at acquisition date.
any excess of the fair value of purchase appropriate.
Revenue from incentive schemes associated with consideration and direct expenses of acquisition over the the provision of claims servicing is recognised on the basis of fair value of the net assets acquired, including intangibles and estimates of the amounts which are considered reasonably contingent liabilities, is recognised as goodwill.
if the cost of certain to be received.
acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Revenue from the provision of securities processing services is income statement.
recognised according to the period to which the service relates, net of guaranteed rebates to customers.
The fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are initially stated on a provisional basis, but are finalised over a Revenue from software development services is recognised as 12 month period, as permitted under iFRS 3. related services are performed when the contract is one based on time and materials, or under the percentage completion basis iFRS 3 revised will be adopted by the group with effect from where work is performed under a fixed price contract.
Under the transitional provisions of iFRS 3 from maintenance contracts is recognised as it is considered to revised, the group has elected to capitalise any costs incurred have been earned, over the term of the maintenance contract.
during 2009 in relation to future acquisitions, and to adjust Revenue from the sale of software licences is recognised when these against retained earnings on transition to iFRS 3 revised.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to have passed to the buyer and all obligations have been iv Revenue recognition fulfilled: usually considered to occur on delivery of the licences Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration to the buyer.
received or receivable, excluding value added tax, rebates and discounts.
it comprises the value of services provided The group provides administration services to the insurance for human resources, procurement services, claims servicing, market, from which there are three principal sources of revenue.
software development services, securities processing, finance These, together with the bases of revenue recognition, are set and accounting services, customer administration, maintenance out below: contracts and software sales.
revenue in respect of the provision of administration services comprises amounts receivable for subscription fees, Revenue from the provision of human resources and finance a transaction charge for the provision of administration and accounting services is recognised according to the period services and fees for other ad hoc services.
Subscription fees to which the service relates, net of guaranteed rebates to are recognised in the income statement according to the customers, when all obligations are fulfilled.
period to which they relate.
Transactional revenue for these services is recognised in the period in which the transaction Revenue from the provision of procurement services is takes place.
ad hoc revenue is recognised in the period in recognised on a gross basis where the group is responsible which the service is provided for the whole supply chain process and associated business revenue in respect of business process services contracts process from end-to-end.
Where the group acts as an agent, is divided into an implementation phase and a service revenue is recognised on a net basis.
Revenue is recognised, provision phase.
Revenue in respect of the implementation net of guaranteed rebates to customers, according to the phase is accounted for on a long-term contract basis period to which the service relates and only when all obligations where it is separable from the provision of administration are fulfilled.
Revenue and attributable profit are recognised on a percentage completion basis representing the stage of completion of contractual obligations.
Revenue in respect of the provision of post-implementation administration services to business process services customers is recognised in the period to which the service relates X c h a n g i ng plc 63 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets such iv Revenue recognition continued as equities classified as available-for-sale are included in the revenue in respect of the rental or maintenance of computer revaluation reserve in equity.
software programs is recognised as earned.
Billings are included in trade receivables in accordance with the terms c Group companies of the relevant rental or maintenance contract.
To the extent The results and financial position of all the group entities that billings are recorded in advance of the relevant revenue, none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy such advance billings are included in deferred income.
The that have a functional currency different from the presentation income arising from the sale of an initial licence is recognised currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: upfront with implementation income being recognised over all assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented the period of implementation of the software.
are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet v Finance costs income and expenses for each income statement are Finance costs are charged to the income statement using the translated at monthly average exchange rates unless this effective interest rate method.
average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in vi Finance income which case income and expenses are translated at the rate Finance income is reported in the income statement as it arises on the dates of the transactions through the application of the effective interest rate method.
all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
vii Dividend distributions dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements in the translation of long-term monetary items designated as part period in which the dividends are approved by the companys of the net investment in foreign operation are taken to shareholders.
interim dividends are recognised when paid.
viii Foreign currency transactions goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition a Functional and presentation currency of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the items included in the financial statements of each of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the d Hedging functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are The group applies cash flow hedge accounting when it hedges presented in Sterling, which is the groups presentation currency.
exposure to variability in cash flows associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction and b Transactions and balances where the hedge is expected to be highly effective.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective from the settlement of such transactions and from the portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in ix Goodwill the income statement.
goodwill recognised under UK generally accepted accounting practice prior to the date of transition to iFRS, 1 January 2003, is Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and stated at net book value at the date of transition.
This goodwill cash and cash equivalents are presented in the income statement had been amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful within finance income or cost.
all other foreign exchange gains economic life being 10 years.
and losses are presented in the income statement within foreign exchange loss gain.
goodwill recognised subsequent to 1 January 2003, arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the identifiable net assets including intangible assets acquired.
goodwill is capitalised as a non-current asset.
64 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 2 Principal accounting policies continued amortisation of development costs occurs on a straight-line ix Goodwill continued basis over the life of the contract to which they relate between after initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any 6 and 12 years.
This period represents the useful life of the accumulated impairment losses.
impairment reviews are intangible asset.
performed annually to ensure that the present value of estimated future net income streams from the associated b Software costs cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated, Software costs are capitalised where they meet the criteria for discounted using discount rates specific to the group, exceeds recognition under iaS 38.
Where the criteria for capitalisation the goodwill capitalised.
any impairment losses identified are are not met, software development expenditure is expensed not reversed.
gains and losses on the disposal of an entity as incurred.
include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Software development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis at an annual rate of 20% or over the life of the related purchases of the minority interests shareholdings result in contract, where appropriate, so as to write off the asset cost goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic and the relevant share of the carrying value of net assets of the life.
purchased software is stated at cost and amortised on a subsidiary acquired.
straight-line basis over three years.
x Intangible assets c Assets in the course of development a Development costs assets in the course of development are not amortised until Where development costs meet the criteria for capitalisation, the asset is brought into use.
these are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Research costs are expensed Subsequent expenditure undertaken to ensure that an asset as incurred.
maintains its previously assessed standard of performance, for example, routine repairs and maintenance expenditure, costs incurred during the development period of new is recognised in the income statement as it is incurred.
Where contracts, including the costs of process and system designs subsequent expenditure significantly enhances an asset, this that substantially improve those processes and systems already is capitalised.
installed in either the Enterprise partnerships or recently acquired subsidiaries, are treated as development costs.
Expenditure d Contractual customer relationships relating to these clearly defined and identifiable development contractual customer relationships are capitalised on acquisition projects is recognised as an intangible asset only where costs where they meet the criteria for recognition under iFRS 3 and can be reliably measured and after the following criteria have iaS 38. amortisation of customer contractual relationships is been met: in line with the expected length of the customer relationship, the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the which is between one and seven years.
development project have been demonstrated the availability of adequate technical and financial resources xi Property, plant and equipment and an intention to complete the project have been property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated confirmed depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of future economic benefits are expected.
property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
costs that are capitalised comprise directly attributable incremental costs incurred during the development period, including wages and salaries of staff employed solely for the purpose of improving the processes and systems, and third party costs.
development costs do not include restructuring costs, including redundancy, early termination penalties and such like, which are expensed to the income statement as they are incurred.
X c h a n g i ng plc 65 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued xiii Financial instruments xi Property, plant and equipment continued a Financial assets depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the Classification assets, less their estimated residual values, on a straight-line The group classifies its financial assets into one of the following basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale and financial concerned.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were leasehold improvements over the period of the lease acquired.
The group determines the classification of its financial computer equipment 20 33% per annum assets at initial recognition: Fixtures and fittings 10 33% per annum loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with Motor vehicles 25% per annum fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are xii Impairment of tangible and intangible assets either designated in this category or not classified in any of at each balance sheet date, management reviews its tangible the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets assets to determine whether there is any indication that those unless management intends to dispose of the investment assets have suffered an impairment loss.
intangible assets are within 12 months of the balance sheet date reviewed if a trigger event is deemed to have happened.
if any financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is residual equities purchased as part of a requisitioned trade estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment on behalf of a client of the continental Europe sector and loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are held at their fair value until the opportunity arises to sell are independent from other assets, the group estimates the the equity as part of a new requisitioned trade by a client.
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the They are included within current assets and classified as asset belongs.
held-for-trading assets within trade and other receivables in the balance sheet Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell financial assets at fair value through profit or loss also and value in use.
in assessing value in use, the estimated future includes warrants purchased alongside an equity investment cash flows are discounted to their present value using a post-tax which offer the group the opportunity to purchase discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of additional shares in an unquoted entity at a future date.
They the time value of money.
Future cash flows are adjusted to take are carried at fair value in the balance sheet and classified as account of any risks specific to an asset.
if the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit Recognition and measurement is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised amount of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its on the trade date the date on which the group commits to recoverable amount.
an impairment loss is recognised as an purchase or sell the asset.
investments are initially recognised expense immediately.
at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the investments have expired or have been transferred and the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed ownership.
available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently the carrying amount that would have been determined had no carried at fair value.
loans and receivables are carried at impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised held-for-trading assets are carried at fair value through profit in the income statement immediately.
66 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 2 Principal accounting policies continued xv Trade and other receivables xiii Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and a Financial assets continued subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Recognition and measurement continued impairment.
a provision for the impairment of trade receivables When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or is established when there is objective evidence that the group impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the in equity are included in the income statement as gains and original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties losses from investment securities.
of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is in the income statement as part of finance income when the impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between groups right to receive payments is established.
gains or losses the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated arising from changes in the fair values of other financial assets future cash flows.
The carrying amount of the receivable is at fair value through profit and loss are presented within finance reduced through the use of an allowance account.
impaired costs or income in the period in which they arise.
changes in the debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in equity.
pre-contract costs comprise legal and other professional expenses and other directly attributable staff costs incurred The fair values of quoted investments are based on current bid in order to obtain specific customer contracts.
costs that are prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
directly attributable to a contract are deferred when it is virtually certain that the contract will be awarded and the contract will The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is result in future net cash inflows with a present value at least objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial equal to all amounts recognised as an asset.
in the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the pre-contract costs are included within trade and other fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be an receivables and are amortised on a straight-line basis over indicator that the securities are impaired.
if any such evidence the life of the contract, starting from the date when the exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss contract commences.
measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset xvi Cash and cash equivalents previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand and recognised in the income statement.
impairment losses deposits and short-term highly liquid investments which are recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are readily convertible to cash and are subject to minimal risk of not reversed through the income statement.
xiv Put options granted to minority shareholders xvii Trade and other payables in accordance with iaS 32, when minority interests hold put Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value options that enable them to sell their investments to the group, and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
the net present value of the future payment is reflected as a financial liability in the consolidated balance sheet.
at the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recognised in the income statement for the period through finance costs.
X c h a n g i ng plc 67 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued xx Employee benefit costs xviii Operating and finance leases a Pension obligations leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of The group operates, or participates in, both defined contribution ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating and defined benefit pension schemes.
all the pension schemes leases.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the are accounted for in accordance with iaS 19. income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
lease incentives provided by lessors to the group are amortised professional independent actuaries value the defined benefit over the lease term together with any related costs of acquiring schemes triennially and the valuations are updated at each year the lease.
end using the projected unit credit method.
Scheme assets are measured using closing market values at the balance sheet date.
assets held under finance leases are initially reported at the pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit lower of the fair value of the assets and the present value of method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high minimum lease payments with an equivalent liability categorised quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the as appropriate under current or non-current liabilities.
Variations between the scheme assets and liabilities is depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and its useful identified as a result of these actuarial valuations actuarial economic life.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting gains and losses are recognised in full through the statement periods over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of comprehensive income SOci in the period in which they of return on the outstanding balance.
current service costs, expected returns on plan assets and interest costs are charged to the income statement.
past-service xix Taxation including deferred taxation costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes current and deferred tax is recognised at the amount expected to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining to be paid to or recovered from the taxation authorities on in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
in the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
basis over the vesting period.
deferred tax is recognised under the liability method on an The group participates in a number of defined benefit schemes undiscounted basis in respect of all temporary differences that which are multi-employer schemes and where insufficient have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date information exists to be able to account for the schemes as where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay defined benefit plans as there is no consistent and reliable basis more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at for allocating the obligations, plan assets and costs to individual the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: entities participating in these schemes.
in accordance with iaS where the temporary difference arises from the initial 19, such schemes are accounted for as defined contribution recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a schemes and contributions are charged to the income statement transaction that is not a business combination that at the as incurred.
time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss contributions to the groups defined contribution schemes are deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and charged to the income statement as incurred.
therefore recognised, only when, on the basis of all available evidence, the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences can be deducted.
income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised directly in the income statement.
68 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 2 Principal accounting policies continued xxiii Fair value estimation xx Employee benefit costs continued The fair values of short-term loans and overdrafts with a b Share-based compensation maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based to their book values.
For loans due in more than one year, compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services the fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is received in exchange for the grant of an equity-settled estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows transaction is recognised as an expense over the periods in which at the market interest rate available to the group for similar the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the vesting financial instruments.
The fair value for quoted available-for-sale date of the award.
The total amount to be expensed over the investments and held-for-trading equity securities is based on vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the their quoted market price.
The fair value of unquoted availableequity instruments granted.
non-market vesting conditions are for-sale investments and held-for-trading equity securities is included in assumptions about the number of options that are estimated by reference to a discounted cash flow calculation.
at each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
xxiv Exceptional items it recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if Exceptional items are events or transactions that fall within the any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment ordinary activities of the group, but which by virtue of their to equity.
awards, where vesting is conditional upon a market size or incidence, have been separately disclosed in order to condition, are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or improve a readers understanding of the financial statements.
not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other These include items relating to the restructuring of a significant performance conditions are satisfied.
part of the group, expenditure relating to the integration and implementation of significant acquisitions and other one-off The proceeds received, net of any directly attributable events or transactions.
transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
3 Critical accounting estimations and judgements The groups principal accounting policies are set out in note 2 xxi Provisions of these financial statements.
Management is required to provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as exercise significant judgement and make use of estimates and the result of a past event and it is probable that this will result assumptions in the application of these policies.
in an outflow of economic benefit, the amount of which can be reliably estimated.
Where the provision is long-term, such areas which management believes require the most critical as onerous contract provisions where the unavoidable costs of accounting judgements are: meeting obligations exceed any economic benefits expected to be received, the net cash flows are discounted using an i Retirement benefit obligations appropriate risk-free rate.
The group operates a number of defined benefit plans.
The retirement benefit obligations recorded are based on actuarial Restructuring provisions are only recognised if an obligation assumptions, including discount rates, expected long-term rate exists at the balance sheet date, i. e. a formal plan exists and of return on plan assets, inflation and mortality rates.
These those affected by that plan have a valid expectation that the assumptions are based on current market conditions, historical restructuring will be carried out.
Employee termination payments information and consultation with, and input from, actuaries.
are included within restructuring provisions.
provisions are not Management reviews these assumptions annually.
if they recognised for future operating losses.
change, or if actual experience is different from the assumptions, the funding status of the plan will change and the retirement xxii Share capital benefit obligation will be adjusted accordingly.
The assumptions Share capital comprises the nominal value of all issued shares.
used are detailed in note 31.
On subscribing for shares any excess consideration over the nominal value of the shares issued less any issue costs is credited to the share premium account.
X c h a n g i ng plc 69 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 3 Critical accounting estimations and judgements v Assumptions on put options continued Three put options are accounted for as financial liabilities under i Retirement benefit obligations continued paragraph 23 of iaS 32.
These liabilities are carried at fair value Xchanging participates in various BaE Systems pension through profit and loss and measured at the fair value of the schemes.
The terms on which Xchanging participates in these future cash flows associated with them.
The levels of these schemes give Xchanging protection against any requirement to cash flows and the relevant discount rates used in the fair value fund future deficits that arise in the schemes, and against future calculations are based on future projections and incorporate a exit debts that may arise on withdrawal from these schemes.
certain element of management judgement see note 20. however, in the event of BaE Systems becoming insolvent, there is a risk that Xchanging could become liable to fund vi Income taxes the wider pension schemes of these companies, which would The group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
result in a significant exposure should these events occur.
The Judgement is required in determining the group-wide provision directors consider the risk of this event to be extremely remote for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations and consequently the schemes are accounted for as defined for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The group contribution schemes as per note 31. recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the ii Estimated impairment of goodwill final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts The group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any that were initially recognised, such differences will impact the impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities in the note 2 xii.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units period in which such determination is made.
have been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates see note 13.
The group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation iii Exceptional items of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the The directors consider that items of income or expense which temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different are material and non-recurring by virtue of their nature and accounting and tax treatments.
These temporary differences amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements result in deferred tax assets or liabilities which are included are to reflect a full understanding of the financial position and within the balance sheet.
deferred tax assets are not recognised underlying financial performance of the group on a comparable where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised basis.
The directors label these items collectively as exceptional in the future.
This evaluation requires judgements to be made items see note 6. consideration of what should be labelled as including the forecast of future taxable income.
exceptional requires management judgement to be applied.
vii Acquisitions iv Calculation of pre-contract costs and appropriate When acquiring a business, the group has to make judgements amortisation period and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the The original cost of pre-contract costs includes project purchase price.
The group tests the valuation of goodwill on an development costs including appropriate direct internal costs annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that which are deferred from the point that it is virtually certain that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
These tests require the project will proceed to completion.
The directors consider the use of estimates see note 3 ii.
that this point of virtual certainty is normally reached when the memorandum of understanding related to the contract is signed viii Deferred revenue recognition by all parties involved see note 17.
The group applies judgement in determining the most appropriate method to use in estimating the amount of deferred The amortisation of these pre-contract costs is charged so as to revenue to be recognised in a financial period.
Following the write down the value of the asset to its residual value over the acquisition of cambridge Solutions limited on 1 January 2009, life of the contract.
a significant amount of deferred revenue was recognised on acquisition arising on a number of claims service contracts.
The amount of deferred revenue released in relation to these contracts is then estimated based on managements estimation of the services performed to date against the total estimated cost to fulfil all obligations.
70 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 ix Valuation of provisions Management uses Xchangings share of underlying operating due to the nature of provisions, an element of their profit XEBiT as a measure of segment result.
XEBiT represents determination is based on estimates and judgements, including underlying operating profit attributable to equity holders of assumptions regarding the future anticipated cash outflows the group.
Underlying operating profit excludes the effects required to settle obligations, and the period over which these of non-recurring expenditure from the operating segments outflows will arise.
The actual outcome of these uncertain such as restructuring costs.
The measure also excludes the factors may differ from these estimations, giving rise to amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an differences with the estimated provisions.
any such differences acquired entity and imputed interest on both put options issued between actual outcomes and the provisions recorded may to minority interests and employee loans.
interest income and impact the groups results over the periods involved.
The timing expenditure are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity of the outflow of resources required to settle these obligations is driven by the group treasury function, which manages the is subject to similar uncertain factors.
cash position of the whole group.
4 Segmental reporting Management makes regular use of this XEBiT measure to Following the acquisition of cambridge Solutions limited, the evaluate performance in the operating segments, both in segments previously reported under Business lines, Financial absolute terms and comparatively from period to period, and to Markets, insurance and BpS & corporate have been restructured.
allocate resources among its operating segments.
Management The group has determined the new operating segments based believes that this measure provides a better understanding, for on the management organisational structure and monitoring both management and investors, of the operating results of its of performance by the Xchanging Management Board XMB, business segments for the period under review.
Six reportable operating segments have been identified, which form the basis of the Xchangings reportable segments account for inter-segment segmental reporting note.
These are UK, americas, continental sales and transfers as if the sales or transfers were to third Europe, asia pacific, global procurement and central.
a brief parties, i. e. at current market prices.
description of each segment follows: UK is a cross-industry sector providing insurance BpO Unallocated assets include deferred tax assets.
Unallocated services, human resources, finance and accounting, liabilities include current income tax liabilities, deferred tax and technology: liabilities, borrowings, and other financial liabilities.
americas comprises the provision of cross-industry iT products and services, alongside both workers compensation and other specialist insurance claims processing services for customers across the USa: continental Europe is an industry-specific sector in which the group provides BpO services to financial markets customers: asia pacific contains the groups offshore business processing services function, which provides accounting, pension administration and broking services to a range of cross-industry customers.
it also includes the workers compensation claims processing services business in australia: global procurement is a cross-industry sector in which the group provides procurement services to a range of customers across geographical borders: and central provides the infrastructure, resources and investment to sustain and grow the group, including the corporate sales and commercial, performance management, implementation and business management functions.
X c h a n g i ng plc 71 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 4 Segmental reporting continued The segment information for the year ended 31 december 2009 is as follows: Continental Asia Global UK Americas Europe Pacific Procurement Central Total Year ended 31 December 2009 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 Revenue 237,689 145,931 165,126 47,534 185,366 187 781,833 from external customers 228,024 140,530 165,097 32,951 183,627 187 750,416 inter-segment 9,665 5,401 29 14,583 1,739 31,417 depreciation and amortisation 10,228 10,907 9,014 3,470 2,090 2,262 37,971 Xchangings share of underlying operating profit loss XEBIT 30,307 6,744 12,864 8,142 12,476 18,125 52,408 XEBIT margin 12.8% 4.6% 7.8% 17.1% 6.7% 7.0% Underlying operating profit loss 38,899 7,095 13,195 10,335 12,476 18,125 63,875 Underlying operating profit margin 16.4% 4.9% 8.0% 21.7% 6.7% 8.5% adjustment of certain non-cash items: amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 161 7,575 444 1,571 205 9,956 Operating profit loss before allocation of central costs and exceptional items 38,738 480 12,751 8,764 12,271 18,125 53,919 allocation of central costs: investment in Enterprise partnerships 50 50 depreciation and amortisation 1,503 526 205 2,234 other 468 163 22 327 Operating profit loss before allocation of exceptional items 37,653 480 12,062 8,764 12,088 16,168 53,919 Exceptional items note 6 5,462 12,446 3,378 990 988 5,896 29,160 Operating profit loss 32,191 12,926 8,684 7,774 11,100 22,064 24,759 Finance costs 14,283 Finance income 8,982 Taxation 6,517 Profit for the year 12,941 Segment assets 132,910 151,575 121,057 132,843 100,109 74,852 713,346 inter-segment assets 7,806 11,093 107 17,439 1,110 65,554 103,109 unallocated assets 25,015 Total assets 125,104 140,482 120,950 115,404 98,999 9,298 635,252 Segment liabilities 82,727 155,953 58,002 9,040 37,661 24,416 367,799 inter-segment liabilities 25,354 65,648 3,638 1,004 4,145 3,320 103,109 unallocated liabilities 80,748 Total liabilities 57,373 90,305 54,364 8,036 33,516 21,096 345,438 Capital expenditure 11,071 105,753 9,163 102,205 563 3,673 232,428 1 americas external revenue for the year ended 31 december 2009 includes 4,789,000 of revenue from a contract entered into during the period by cambridge integrated Services group inc. a subsidiary of the group, to provide consulting, business development and procurement services over the next two years to compagnie pour assistance Technique et investissements S. a.
The contract has a value of up to 9,600,000 US$15,000,000 over this two year period.
This has been disclosed within the related party disclosures in note 33. capital expenditure includes additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through normal business activities 32,314,000, acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as a result of the cambridge Solutions limited business combination 33,713,000, and the related increase in goodwill as a result of this transaction 166,401,000.
72 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 4 Segmental reporting continued The segment information for the year ended 31 december 2008 is as follows: Continental Asia Global UK Americas Europe Pacific Procurement Central Total Year ended 31 December 2008 restated 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Revenue 209,739 32,056 150,280 5,430 177,897 794 576,196 from external customers 201,658 28,263 150,199 176,849 794 557,763 inter-segment 8,081 3,793 81 5,430 1,048 18,433 depreciation and amortisation 6,968 487 6,118 284 1,600 3,258 18,715 Xchangings share of underlying operating profit loss XEBIT 21,508 5,571 14,918 762 14,293 18,560 38,492 XEBIT margin 10.3% 17.4% 9.9% 14.0% 8.0% 6.9% Underlying operating profit loss 29,601 5,571 15,678 762 14,293 18,560 47,345 Underlying operating profit margin 14.1% 17.4% 10.4% 14.0% 8.0% 8.5% adjustment of certain non-cash items: amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 219 88 370 209 886 Operating profit loss before allocation of central costs and exceptional items 29,382 5,483 15,308 762 14,084 18,560 46,459 allocation of central costs: investment in Enterprise partnerships 24 24 depreciation and amortisation 1,367 527 307 2,201 other 501 315 50 136 Operating profit loss before allocation of exceptional items 28,492 5,483 14,466 762 13,727 16,471 46,459 Exceptional items note 6 Operating profit loss 28,492 5,483 14,466 762 13,727 16,471 46,459 Finance costs 11,388 Finance income 14,095 Taxation 13,621 Profit for the year 35,545 Segment assets 125,767 39,534 120,859 4,135 100,404 97,580 488,279 inter-segment assets 6,951 9,195 598 305 1,134 28,550 46,733 unallocated assets 20,043 Total assets 118,816 30,339 120,261 3,830 99,270 69,030 461,589 Segment liabilities 65,897 29,635 58,553 1,335 37,079 23,925 216,424 inter-segment liabilities 23,745 10,650 5,341 44 5,204 1,755 46,739 unallocated liabilities 33,524 Total liabilities 42,152 18,985 53,212 1,291 31,875 22,170 203,209 Capital expenditure 14,415 3,341 18,705 378 6,626 979 44,444 capital expenditure includes additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through normal business activities 39,009,000, acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as a result of the Mercuris Sa business combination 628,000, and the related increase in goodwill as a result of this transaction 4,807,000.
X c h a n g i ng plc 73 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 4 Segmental reporting continued The tables below present revenue by the geographical location of customers and by category: 2009 2008 Revenue by geographical destination 000 000 United Kingdom 432,388 388,961 continental Europe 165,683 156,304 United States of america 110,433 10,820 australia 28,681 964 india 2,263 Rest of world 10,968 714 Total revenue 750,416 557,763 2009 2008 Analysis of revenue by category 000 000 Revenue from services 732,674 557,366 Sale of goods 17,742 397 Total revenue 750,416 557,763 Material customers Revenues from two external customers each account for greater than ten per cent of the groups external revenues.
Revenues of approximately 185,322,000 and 91,680,000 have been derived from these two customers for the year ended 31 december 2009 2008: 177,107,000 and 74,377,000 respectively.
These revenues are attributable to the UK, global procurement and continental Europe segments.
5 Expenses by nature 2009 2008 note 000 000 cost of goods and services directly related to sales 182,711 172,388 direct staff costs 8 291,690 193,755 Other staff related costs 51,822 33,707 Technology and communications 70,368 64,208 property costs 36,696 21,549 depreciation and amortisation 37,971 18,715 Other costs 25,239 6,982 Exceptional items 6 29,160 Total cost of sales and administrative expenses 725,657 511,304 included within: cost of sales 706,586 493,226 administrative expenses 19,071 18,078 725,657 511,304 74 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 6 Exceptional items 2009 2008 000 000 Exceptional items included in cost of sales comprise the following: cambridge acquisition and integration costs 16,734 lean processor strategy restructuring 17,393 Release of phoenix provision 4,967 Total exceptional items included in cost of sales 29,160 The cambridge acquisition and integration costs incurred during the period of 16,734,000 2008: nil relate to specific costs incurred as a consequence of the acquisition of cambridge Solutions limited and its subsidiaries cambridge.
These costs were incurred as a result of the implementation of significant restructuring efforts to integrate cambridge into the Xchanging business.
Key aspects of the implementation programme include the major restructuring of the US BpO business included in the americas segment, with the significant consolidation of existing sites into a few key locations.
The charge consists of costs related to the restructuring of the US BpO business, including onerous lease provisions, asset impairments, severance pay and other costs associated with the management and implementation of the integration plan.
as part of the cambridge acquisition and integration costs, the consolidation of existing US sites into a few key locations has resulted in a number of vacant properties from which the group has been unable to terminate its commitments.
The onerous lease provisions created represent the remaining costs, primarily rent, associated with these vacant properties.
The impairment of assets represents the accelerated depreciation on those assets associated with the vacant properties discussed above refer note 21. lean processor strategy restructuring costs of 17,393,000 2008: nil incurred during the period relate to redundancy costs primarily associated with the UK and germany.
This reflects combining operations in the UK, further increasing offshoring activities to india, and streamlining operations in germany.
an exceptional gain of 4,967,000 2008: nil has been recognised in the year from the release of the phoenix provision.
This provision was held against a potential liability arising from Fondsdepot Bank gmbhs membership of the  der  EdW banking group in germany.
Fondsdepot Bank gmbh obtained a full banking licence in January 2010, and has subsequently left the EdW.
consequently its obligation to make any future payments has been removed.
The tax credit arising in respect of exceptional items is 4,979,000 2008: nil.
7 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2009 2008 note 000 000 Staff costs 8 291,690 193,755 Exceptional items including impairment of property, plant and equipment 6 29,160 depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 15 12,791 6,191 assets held under finance leases 15 795 net amortisation of intangible assets amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity 14 9,957 886 amortisation of other intangible assets 14 13,005 10,204 amortisation of pre-contract costs 17 1,423 1,434 Research and development 7,052 1,494 loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 102 349 impairment of trade receivables 1,259 226 Operating leases land and buildings 19,089 9,677 plant and machinery 126 571 Foreign exchange loss gain 565 2,326 X c h a n g i ng plc 75 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 7 Operating profit continued Fees payable to the groups auditors in the year were as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 Audit services Fees payable to the groups auditors for the audit of the company 224 220 the companys subsidiaries 1,002 673 other services pursuant to legislation 66 53 1,292 946 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services Tax services 902 702 Transaction related services 32 829 Other services 36 120 Total fees payable to the Groups auditors 2,262 2,597 8 Employees and Directors 2009 2008 note 000 000 Staff costs for the Group during the year Wages and salaries including directors 252,658 161,270 Social security costs 25,444 20,428 pension costs defined contribution schemes 9,048 7,138 pension costs defined benefit schemes 4,526 2,860 Share-based payments 24 1,911 2,313 293,587 194,009 included within: operating expenses 7 291,690 193,755 finance costs 1,897 254 293,587 194,009 during 2009, 7,058,000 of staff costs were capitalised during the year 2008: 8,559,000.
2009 2008 Number number Average number of persons including Executive Directors employed by segment UK 1,936 1,957 americas 2,957 382 continental Europe 1,214 1,203 asia pacific 2,141 397 global procurement 228 194 central 125 232 8,601 4,365 disclosures in relation to director and key management compensation are included within the related party disclosures in note 33.
Further information is provided in the remuneration report on pages 47 to 53 of this annual report.
76 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 9 Finance costs and income 2009 2008 note 000 000 Finance costs Bank and other interest 2,755 557 interest cost on defined benefit pension schemes 31 8,966 8,221 imputed interest on deferred consideration for acquisitions 51 imputed interest on put option to acquire minority interest 1,222 2,232 interest payable on finance lease arrangements 123 amortisation of loan arrangement fees 529 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 21 688 327 Total finance costs 14,283 11,388 Finance income Bank interest 1,272 5,183 Expected return on plan assets defined benefit pension schemes 31 7,069 7,967 dividends received on available-for-sale financial assets 395 497 imputed interest on employee loans through the Share purchase plan 238 Other interest 246 210 Total finance income 8,982 14,095 Net finance cost income 5,301 2,707 10 Taxation 2009 2008 000 000 Analysis of tax charge credit in the period current tax: current tax on profits for the year 12,536 13,743 adjustments in respect of prior years 1,156 685 Total current tax 13,692 13,058 deferred tax 7,175 563 6,517 13,621 in addition to the above amounts charged to the income statement, a current income tax credit of 696,000 2008: 1,987,000 has been credited directly to equity in respect of share options exercised in the year, and a deferred tax credit of 468,000 2008: 619,000 has been credited directly to equity note 22.
Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year The tax for the period is higher than 2008: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2009 2008 000 000 Profit before tax 19,458 49,166 profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5% 5,448 14,012 changes in tax rates 38 Taxable overseas dividend income 118 Unutilised utilised tax losses 3,682 2,081 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 837 1,661 Tax in respect of prior years 432 685 difference on foreign tax rates 223 558 Recognition of UK tax losses brought forward 3,659 Tax charge for the year 6,517 13,621 X c h a n g i ng plc 77 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 10 Taxation continued Factors that may affect future tax charges Tax losses arising in the current and previous years and other temporary differences total an estimated carried forward amount of 16,300,000 in the UK 2008: 13,093,000, 65,300,000 in the US 2008: nil and 2,280,000 in india 2008: nil.
The US and indian losses largely arise in cambridge entities which were acquired during the year.
The UK tax losses have been recognised in the year as a deferred tax asset due to expected future profitability refer to note 22.
11 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to equity holders of the company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of Xchanging plc.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
The group has two types of potential dilutive ordinary shares: share options, and share awards under the performance Share plan to the extent that the performance criteria for vesting of the awards are expected to be met.
Weighted average number Earnings Earnings of shares per share 000 thousands pence Basic earnings per share: 31 December 2009 7,390 235,447 3.14 31 december 2008 29,155 216,447 13.47 diluted earnings per share: 31 December 2009 7,390 238,059 3.10 31 december 2008 29,155 224,628 12.98 The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations: 2009 2008 thousands thousands Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 235,447 216,447 dilutive potential ordinary shares: employee share options 2,612 4,918 awards under the performance Share plan 3,263 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 238,059 224,628 Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share in addition to the above, an underlying earnings per share value is disclosed to provide a better understanding of the underlying trading results of the group.
This underlying value is the Kpi used to measure the groups performance.
Weighted average number Earnings Earnings of shares per share 000 thousands pence Underlying basic earnings per share: 31 December 2009 36,259 235,447 15.40 31 december 2008 31,170 216,447 14.40 Underlying diluted earnings per share: 31 December 2009 36,259 238,059 15.23 31 december 2008 31,170 224,628 13.88 78 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 11 Earnings per share continued The underlying earnings per share figures are calculated based on the Xchanging share of underlying net profit, divided by the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares as stated above.
The Xchanging share of underlying profit for the year is calculated as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to Xchanging equity holders 7,390 29,155 Exceptional items net of tax 24,179 amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by an acquired entity net of tax 6,192 613 imputed interest and fair value adjustments on put options net of tax 1,094 1,562 imputed interest on employee loans through the Share purchase plan net of tax 160 Minority interests share of adjustments net of tax 2,596 Underlying profit for the year attributable to Xchanging equity holders 36,259 31,170 in prior years, iFRS 2 share-based payment charges were also excluded from underlying profit.
in the current year, iFRS 2 share-based payments charges of 1,911,000 2008: 2,313,000 and the related tax effect of these, are included in underlying profit to align with current market practices.
The prior year comparatives have been restated to enable a like-for-like comparison.
12 Dividends per share an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 december 2009 of 2.75 pence per share, amounting to a total dividend of 6,521,000, will be paid on 1 april 2010 to all shareholders on the share register at the record date, 19 March 2010.
This interim dividend will be in place of a final dividend.
These financial statements do not reflect this proposed dividend payable.
There are no material tax consequences of this dividend.
a dividend of 2.5 pence per share relating to the year ended 31 december 2008, amounting to 5,487,000 was paid on 29 May 2009, to members registered at the close of business on 27 March 2009.
13 Goodwill note 000 Cost at 1 January 2008 85,620 Business combinations 4,807 Revision of deferred contingent consideration on prior year business combinations 420 Fair value adjustments relating to prior year business combinations 2,514 Exchange adjustments 3,037 At 31 December 2008 95,558 Business combinations 30 166,401 Revision of deferred contingent consideration on prior year business combinations 1,812 Exchange adjustments 4,158 At 31 December 2009 259,613 Aggregate impairment at 1 January 2008, 31 december 2008 and 31 december 2009 Net book amount at 1 January 2008 85,620 At 31 December 2008 95,558 At 31 December 2009 259,613 X c h a n g i ng plc 79 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 13 Goodwill continued goodwill is allocated to the groups cash-generating units cgUs identified according to Enterprise partnership and segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 UK 30,623 30,623 americas 77,210 8,460 continental Europe 7,191 5,797 asia pacific 94,393 global procurement 50,196 50,678 259,613 95,558 The recoverable amount of a cgU is determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on budgets approved by the directors covering a one year period, which incorporate growth rates specific to each cgU.
For all cgUs other than those associated with the cambridge acquisition, cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated to year five using estimated growth rates in years two and three, and a nil growth rate in years four and five: a terminal value using nil growth is then added.
These growth rates reflect managements expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margin based on past experience and expectations regarding future performance and profitability.
For the goodwill associated with the cambridge acquisition, the cash flows associated with the related cgU are extrapolated beyond the budgeted period using estimated growth rates which do not exceed the long-term average growth rate of the industry and country in which the cgU operates.
a terminal value is then added.
The cash flows are extrapolated over a ten year period, reflecting the benefits forecast to arise as a result of the cambridge acquisition over the longer term.
These long-term growth rates do not exceed the long-term average market growth rates in which the cgUs operate.
a post-tax discount rate of 10.00% 2008: 12.35% is then applied to the projections.
This has been assessed as an appropriate discount rate for cgUs to which significant amounts of goodwill have been allocated, based on managements estimate of the groups weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes it is appropriate to use the same rate for all significant cgUs on the basis that cash flows are adjusted as considered appropriate to reflect any risks associated with operating within specific geographic or operational segments.
Sensitivity analysis performed around the base case assumptions has indicated that no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions would cause the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to significant cgUs to exceed their respective recoverable amounts.
The impairment loss for the year of 1,041,000 has been charged through exceptional items, refer to note 6. included in property, plant and equipment are fixtures and fittings held under finance leases with a net book value of 901,000 2008: nil.
82 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 16 Available-for-sale financial assets 2009 2008 Non-current available-for-sale financial assets 000 000 at 1 January 26,782 23,609 acquisitions note 30 394 additions 518 net gains losses transferred to equity 324 2,207 Exchange adjustments 1,754 5,380 At 31 December 26,264 26,782 There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets during 2009 or 2008. available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2009 2008 000 000 listed equity securities Eurozone 4,428 4,301 listed debt security 21,268 22,481 Unlisted equity securities 568 Total available-for-sale financial assets 26,264 26,782 The listed equity securities and listed debt security investments are held at fair value, based on the listed price of the securities at the year end date.
The underlying currency of the above investments is the Euro.
These securities are considered to be level 1 securities under the definitions of iFRS 7.
The unlisted equity securities investment is held at fair value, based on discounted future operational cash flows.
The underlying currency of the above investment is the US dollar.
These securities are considered to be level 3 securities under the definitions of iFRS 7. none of the available-for-sale financial assets are either past due or impaired.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the debt securities classified as available-for-sale.
X c h a n g i ng plc 83 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 17 Trade and other receivables 2009 2008 note 000 000 Current trade and other receivables Trade receivables non-related parties 52,733 43,948 Trade receivables related parties 33 10,775 3,324 Trade receivables 63,508 47,272 less provision for impairment of receivables 7,316 972 net trade receivables 56,192 46,300 corporate income taxes receivable 1,322 710 Other receivables 7,559 12,782 Other receivables related parties 33 1,872 loans to related parties 33 1,962 4,108 prepayments and accrued income non-related parties 81,745 45,362 prepayments and accrued income related parties 33 750 held-for-trading equity securities 1,711 466 deferred consideration on acquisitions 738 pre-contract costs 1,336 1,235 Total current trade and other receivables 153,699 112,451 Non-current trade and other receivables Other receivables 749 773 deferred consideration on acquisitions 1,161 pre-contract costs 3,358 3,652 Total non-current trade and other receivables 4,107 5,586 2009 2008 000 000 Pre-contract costs Written down value at 1 January 4,887 6,089 pre-contract costs deferred in the year 1,129 394 Exchange adjustments 66 40 amortisation charge for the year 1,423 1,434 costs written off in the year 35 costs recovered in the year 202 Written down value at 31 December 4,694 4,887 The carrying values of all financial assets within trade and other receivables are considered to approximate to their fair values.
it has been assumed that the loans to related parties will be repaid in the short term and no discounting has been applied.
The deferred consideration on acquisitions recognised at the 2008 year end related to an amount expected to be reimbursed from allianz global investors in respect of the phoenix provision refer to note 21. as the provision has been released in full during the year, the corresponding receivable has also been released.
84 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 17 Trade and other receivables continued as at 31 december 2009, trade receivables of 27,421,000 2008: 16,448,000 were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
all trade receivables, whether current or past due, are reviewed for impairment on a case-by-case basis to identify impairment taking into account the ageing of the debt, the likelihood of recoverability and other external factors.
The ageing analysis of the trade receivables is as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 neither past due nor impaired 28,771 29,852 past due: 1 30 days 15,095 11,515 31 60 days 5,091 2,398 61 90 days 4,456 659 Over 90 days 2,779 1,876 Net trade receivables 56,192 46,300 Movements on the groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 at 1 January 972 1,031 On acquisitions note 30 5,924 charged credited to the income statement: provided in the year 1,861 196 released in the year 602 285 Used in the year 348 29 Exchange adjustments 491 59 At 31 December 7,316 972 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The group does not hold any collateral as security.
The carrying amounts of the groups receivables, inclusive of deferred tax assets, are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 000 000 Sterling 102,095 97,001 Euros 46,259 35,478 US dollars 14,017 3,132 australian dollars 15,232 936 indian Rupees 2,990 1,244 Other 2,228 289 At 31 December 182,821 138,080 X c h a n g i ng plc 85 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 000 000 cash at bank and in hand 60,115 117,798 The cash reflected on the groups balance sheet not only includes cash immediately accessible for operations but also includes cash held within the Enterprise partnerships.
The Enterprise partnerships make cash payments to the group on an annual, or in some cases quarterly, basis as contractual dividends and licence fees.
Therefore, cash available for the groups 100% owned operations, and the cambridge entities, is dependent on the periodic distributions from the Enterprise partnerships, all of whom have a 100% distribution policy.
at 31 december 2009 the group held 28,636,000 cash available in either 100% owned operations or in cambridge entities 2008: 75,252,000. included within cash and cash equivalents is an amount of US$4,500,000 2,825,200 which has been required by the courts to be placed in an escrow account pending final settlement of an ongoing litigation claim.
This claim has been fully provided for at the year end.
included within cash and cash equivalents at 31 december 2008 was an amount of 25,502,000 2009: nil which was held in an escrow account.
This amount was equivalent to the maximum consideration that had to be paid out under the Open Offer process relating to the acquisition of cambridge.
19 Trade and other payables 2009 2008 note 000 000 Current trade and other payables Trade payables non-related parties 23,080 23,340 Trade payables related parties 33 8,612 6,319 Trade payables 31,692 29,659 Social security and other taxes 12,818 9,342 Other payables 19,645 15,508 accruals and deferred income non-related parties 90,764 59,741 accruals and deferred income related parties 33 3,489 3,348 dividends payable to minority interests 2,021 Total current trade and other payables 160,429 117,598 Non-current trade and other payables accruals and deferred income 25,173 13,013 Social security and other taxes 332 202 Total non-current trade and other payables 25,505 13,215 The carrying amounts of the groups trade and other payables, inclusive of deferred tax and current tax liabilities, are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 000 000 Sterling 96,448 94,745 Euros 42,786 41,840 US dollars 38,662 3,597 australian dollars 17,575 72 indian Rupees 7,076 636 Other 1,545 32 At 31 December 204,092 140,922 The carrying values of all financial liabilities within trade and other payables are considered to approximate to their fair values.
86 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 20 Financial liabilities 2009 2008 000 000 Current borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts 15,634 Finance lease liabilities 727 deferred consideration on acquisitions 276 Total current borrowings 16,361 276 Non-current borrowings Bank loans 22,334 Finance lease liabilities 394 Receivable purchase facility 198 Total non-current borrowings 22,926 Current other financial liabilities put options to acquire the minority interest in Enterprise partnerships 900 974 Non-current other financial liabilities put options to acquire the minority interest in Enterprise partnerships 22,404 23,145 The group has minority shareholders in three Enterprise partnerships that hold the right to sell their shares to the group at a future date.
in accordance with iaS 32, the estimated future cash flows associated with these options are discounted back to their present value.
The carrying amounts of the groups financial liabilities are denominated in the following currencies: 2009 2008 000 000 Sterling 8,652 9,227 Euros 14,095 15,168 US dollars 34,681 indian Rupees 5,153 Singapore dollars 11 At 31 December 62,592 24,395 The fair value of the current financial liabilities equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The carrying amounts and fair value of the current and non-current financial liabilities are as follows: carrying amount Fair value 2009 2008 2009 2008 000 000 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 37,968 37,968 Finance lease liabilities 1,121 1,121 Receivable purchase facility 198 198 put options to acquire the minority interest in Enterprise partnerships 23,304 24,119 23,304 24,119 62,591 24,119 62,591 24,119 The fair values of the put options are based on cash flows discounted using a rate based on the year end effective interest rate of 3.75% for Sterling-denominated instruments and 3.75% for Euro-denominated instruments 2008: 4.25% for Sterling-denominated instruments and 4.5% for Euro-denominated instruments.
The fair values of the bank loans and overdrafts are assumed to equal their carrying value as these are recent arms length transactions, and are subject to floating rate interest rates determined by movements in liBOR.
X c h a n g i ng plc 87 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 20 Financial liabilities continued The finance leases held by the group relate to leased assets including computer equipment and other various items of office equipment.
The gross finance lease obligation is as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 Expiring within one year 786 Expiring later than one year but not more than five years 420 gross finance lease obligation 1,206 Future finance charges on finance leases 85 Present value of finance lease liabilities 1,121 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 Expiring within one year 727 Expiring later than one year but not more than five years 394 1,121 21 Provisions Early and Onerous Operational part-time long litigation phoenix lease Restructuring risk retirement service provision Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 at 1 January 2008 3,356 5,003 166 2,054 5,263 1,135 4,539 21,516 Transfers to from accruals 604 347 257 Reallocation of provisions held by recently acquired subsidiaries 424 424 charged credited to the income statement: provided in the year 276 811 265 503 1,380 3,235 released in the year 535 168 946 1,494 242 1,354 4,739 unwinding of discount 193 134 327 Used in the year 1,822 442 1,752 199 1,498 5,713 Exchange adjustments 1,257 645 2 405 1,051 458 604 4,422 At 31 December 2008 5,230 3,701 811 1,336 3,571 1,756 2,900 19,305 acquisitions 14,739 482 299 7,397 3,003 25,920 Reallocation of provisions 110 798 908 charged credited to the income statement: provided in the year 2,843 17,039 623 623 152 511 1,707 23,498 released in the year 4,967 2,202 112 609 7,890 unwinding of discount 183 498 7 688 Used in the year 4,838 1,167 82 1,334 92 304 1,884 9,701 Exchange adjustments 446 1,480 45 97 269 31 670 421 3,369 At 31 December 2009 13,261 17,210 1,668 2,481 1,286 6,934 5,611 48,451 Of the 17,039,000 restructuring provision provided for during the year, 16,793,000 has been included within the lean processor strategy restructuring costs and 246,000 has been included within the cambridge acquisition and integration costs, both of which are exceptional items in the year refer to note 6.
88 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 21 Provisions continued provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 current 32,057 6,617 non-current 16,394 12,688 48,451 19,305 The phoenix provision related to future payments which one of the group companies, Fondsdepot Bank gmbh, may have to make to the EdW, a federal special fund aimed at protecting investors, as a result of a securities fraud committed by one of the EdW member companies.
as Fondsdepot Bank gmbh has subsequently left the EdW following it obtaining a full banking licence in January 2010, the phoenix provision is no longer required, and has been released in full.
The onerous lease provision relates to dilapidations and a shortfall between expected sub-letting rents and future costs on a number of operating leases.
The provision was largely acquired by the Xchanging group as part of the acquisition of cambridge Solutions limited and mostly arises within the americas region.
additional amounts have been provided as a result of the consolidation of existing cambridge sites into a few key locations.
The leases provided for have between two and seven years left to run.
The restructuring provision relates to an estimate of the cost of the lean processor strategy restructuring of the Xchanging group announced in 2009, and expected to be completed by the end of 2010.
The operational risk provision comprises an estimated liability in respect of identified operating errors which had occurred in the ordinary course of business in the continental Europe region up to 31 december 2009.
This is an ongoing provision representative of the nature of the securities processing market.
The early and part-time retirement provision mainly arises from a statutory requirement for german businesses and is calculated under iaS 19 with reference to actuarial reports.
The group offers long-serving employees the opportunity to retire before reaching the statutory age of retirement.
as the utilisation of the provision is dependent on the uptake of this opportunity by employees, and the timing of their decision to do so, the provision is determined using actuarial assumptions.
Employees within the german, australian and indian entities receive long service awards for 10 years or more of service.
These awards take the form of either a payment, or paid leave.
The amount of the provision recognised is based on actuarial valuations which are updated at each reporting date.
as the amount and timing of utilisation of this provision is based on estimates of the number of employees likely to stay with the group in excess of 10 years, which is outside the groups control, there is an element of uncertainty surrounding the timing of utilisation of this provision.
The litigation provision relates to a number of ongoing claims arising primarily within the US BpO business.
The utilisation of the litigation provision is dependent on the timing of the settlement of the underlying cases.
although some significant cases are expected to be settled during the first half of 2010, the settlement of others is, to an extent, outside the groups control.
There is therefore an element of uncertainty regarding the timing of a proportion of this provisions utilisation.
The other provisions include other personnel related provisions, being provisions for profit sharing, retention bonuses, gratuities and leave encashment, provisions for archiving required under banking regulations, technology and communications, and consultancy.
X c h a n g i ng plc 89 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 22 Deferred tax deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28% 2008: 28% for differences arising in the UK and at the relevant local statutory rates for differences arising in other countries.
deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legal right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
deferred income tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 2009 2008 000 000 Assets Retirement benefit obligation 10,988 9,009 Tax losses 4,432 9 decelerated tax depreciation 1,893 1,800 Share-based payments 995 3,116 put option 90 99 Other 6,617 6,010 25,015 20,043 Liabilities Retirement benefit asset 64 114 accelerated tax depreciation 2,710 3,541 put option 166 294 Other 8,774 1,717 11,714 5,666 deferred tax assets have been recognised for tax losses carried forward, to the extent that the realisation of the tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$36,000,000 22,600,000 in relation to losses which largely arise in acquired cambridge entities and also 918,000 2008: 877,000 in respect of decelerated tax depreciation and other temporary differences arising in the UK.
These assets have not been recognised due to the uncertainty of future suitable taxable profits.
The movement in the net deferred tax position is as follows: net retirement benefit accelerated obligation Tax tax Share-based asset losses depreciation payments put options Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 at 1 January 2008 5,920 168 862 4,128 604 3,307 12,057 Recognised on business combinations 204 204 Fair value adjustments relating to prior year business combinations 948 112 1,060 charged credited to the income statement 827 159 1,345 583 401 784 563 credited charged to equity 2,596 1,595 382 619 Exchange adjustments 1,206 278 8 472 1,408 At 31 December 2008 8,895 9 1,741 3,116 195 4,293 14,377 Recognised on business combinations note 30 8,762 8,762 charged credited to the income statement 693 4,433 1,080 231 127 2,459 7,175 credited charged to equity 2,411 1,788 155 468 Exchange adjustments 311 10 156 102 8 8 43 At 31 December 2009 10,924 4,432 817 995 76 2,157 13,301 90 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 23 Called up share capital 2009 2008 000 000 Authorised share capital of Xchanging plc 350,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each 17,500 17,500 2009 Allotted, called up and fully paid number Xchanging plc ordinary shares of 5p each at 1 January 2009 219,468,787 Shares issued in respect of cambridge acquisition 15,249,998 Exercise of share options 2,397,815 Total number of ordinary Xchanging plc shares at 31 December 2009 237,116,600 Total nominal value 000 at 31 December 2009 11,856 Increase in allotted share capital 2009 15,249,998 shares were issued as part of the consideration for cambridge Solutions limited at the market rate applicable on the date of acquisition.
2,397,815 share options were exercised during 2009 for cash consideration of 1,924,000.
2008 Allotted, called up and fully paid number Xchanging plc ordinary shares of 5p each at 1 January 2008 214,799,304 Exercise of share options 4,669,483 Total number of ordinary Xchanging plc shares at 31 December 2008 219,468,787 Total nominal value 000 at 31 December 2008 10,973 Increase in allotted share capital 2008 4,669,483 share options were exercised during 2008 for cash consideration of 3,165,000.
Share rights all Xchanging plc ordinary shares carry equal share rights.
X c h a n g i ng plc 91 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 23 Called up share capital continued Share options at 31 december 2009 options over 5,751,194 shares were outstanding 2008: 8,708,740 shares.
The number of shares subject to options, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below.
approved options Unapproved options g share options number WaEp pence number WaEp pence number WaEp pence at 1 January 2008 1,412,730 100.42 10,423,213 100.53 1,654,712 21.51 Movements during 2008 options granted 12,158 246.75 142,399 274.14 options exercised 151,932 97.11 3,037,687 88.46 1,479,864 22.30 options forfeited 77,920 127.48 149,213 132.50 39,856 32.23 At 31 December 2008 1,195,036 100.56 7,378,712 108.20 134,992 9.65 Movements during 2009 options granted 15,789 190.00 9,211 190.00 options excercised 338,286 91.14 1,924,537 83.31 134,992 9.65 options forfeited 87,900 104.80 496,831 128.72 At 31 December 2009 784,639 105.94 4,966,555 115.95 Weighted average exercise price approved options Unapproved options g share options Range of exercise prices: 2009 33.20p 277.00p 33.20p 280.80p 2008 33.20p 277.00p 33.20p 280.80p 9.65p Weighted average remaining contractual life: 2009 2,167 days 2,114 days 2008 2,483 days 2,329 days 1,944 days number of options exercisable at: 31 December 2009 302,310 2,550,820 31 december 2008 434,524 4,370,160 134,992 92 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 24 Share-based payment plans The group operates a number of equity-settled share-based payment plans as follows: i Share options Options are granted with a fixed exercise price at the date of grant.
The contractual life of an option is 10 years.
awards are granted to directors and employees on a merit basis, and are subject to continuous employment.
Options granted become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of grant, and are valued using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculations are as follows: General assumptions Vesting period years 3 Option life years 10 Expected life years 3.25 Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield % 1 possibility of ceasing employment before vesting % 20 Risk-free interest rate % 2.1 Year of grant Year of grant 2009 2008 Weighted average share price at grant date pence 198.00 272.24 Weighted average exercise price pence approved options 190.00 246.75 unapproved options 190.00 274.14 Weighted average fair value of options granted in the period pence approved options 52.00 59.00 unapproved options 52.00 62.22 Expected volatility % 34 27 28 There were no grants of options over g shares during 2009 or 2008. as limited historical volatility exists for Xchanging, the expected volatility is based on historical volatility of a peer group of companies over the last three years.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
a reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 december 2009 is provided in note 23.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised over the year was 2.07 per share 2008: 2.46.
The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based payments under the share option plans was 476,000 2008: 548,000, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
ii Performance Share Plan PSP awards have been granted under the performance Share plan to Executive directors and certain members of Xchangings management group.
Under the terms of the scheme, conditional awards of shares are granted, which will vest at the end of the three year performance period.
Both basic and stretch awards have been granted, the proportion of each award that will vest is dependent on the performance of the companys total shareholder return TSR as compared with the performance of its comparator group defined as the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts and on the attainment of an EpS growth underpin.
25% of the basic awards will vest if TSR is at a median position and 100% if TSR is in the upper quartile.
in between these positions, the basic award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The stretch award will also vest on a straight-line basis, with 0% vesting if TSR is at an upper quartile position, up to 100% if TSR is in the top decile.
The EpS underpin is the UK Rpi plus 3%.
The group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the awards in cash.
X c h a n g i ng plc 93 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 24 Share-based payment plans continued ii Performance Share Plan PSP continued awards are granted to directors and employees on a merit basis, and are subject to continuous employment over the length of the vesting period, or at the discretion of the group if determined to be a good leaver upon leaving.
awards granted vest three years from the date of the award and are valued using a Monte carlo simulation model.
The Monte carlo simulation model used for valuing pSp awards with a TSR performance condition requires additional assumptions.
a single co-efficient assumption of 22% april award or 26% September award 2008: 32% based on historical analysis has been used in the current year, representing the level of correlation of growth in TSR between the comparator companies simulated in the model.
The three year historical volatility for each company in the comparator group at grant date has been analysed and this historical volatility has been used in the model to project TSR for each company.
as limited historical volatility exists for Xchanging, the expected volatility for the group is based on historical volatility of a peer group of companies over the previous three years.
The fair value per award granted and the assumptions used as inputs into the model are as follows: april 2009 September General assumptions 2008 grant grant 2009 grant Vesting period years 3.00 3.14 2.73 2.47 Expected life years 3.00 3.14 2.73 2.47 Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield % 1 1 1 possibility of ceasing employment before vesting % 20 20 20 Expected volatility % 28 35 35 Risk-free interest rate % 4.02 4.05 2.05 2.60 Weighted average share price at grant date 2.59 1.86 2.25 Weighted average fair value at grant date 1.36 0.69 0.56 Movements during 2008 awards granted 5,186,288 awards forfeited 194,254 At 31 December 2008 4,992,034 Movements during 2009 awards granted 1,723,030 1,157,792 awards forfeited 1,158,586 47,725 At 31 December 2009 3,833,448 1,723,030 1,110,067 The total charge for the year relating to the pSp awards including social security charges on the awards is 1,435,000 2008: 1,765,000. iii Share Purchase Plan 2007 SPP The group adopted the Spp during 2007, in which Executive directors and certain members of senior management were invited to participate.
Under this scheme, set up in February 2007, an employee benefit trust loaned money to the participants in order to allow them to purchase class F shares in Xchanging BV at the market value at the time of 5.30 Xchanging plc equivalent value 1.33.
These loans are non-interest bearing and the terms and conditions are described further in note 33. participants may not normally sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of the shares awarded under the scheme for a period of 18 months from issue.
Shares may now be sold on the condition that a pro-rata proportion of any loan from the employee benefit trust is repaid.
as the shares were granted at the fair market value at the time there is no share-based payment charge as a result of this scheme.
94 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 25 Shareholders equity Share capital The balance classed as share capital is the nominal proceeds on issue of the companys equity share capital, comprising 5p ordinary shares.
Share premium The amount paid to the company by shareholders over and above the nominal value of the shares issued to them, less the direct costs of issuing the shares, is classified as share premium.
Merger reserve and reverse acquisition reserve The merger and reverse acquisition reserves arise as a result of the share for share exchange undertaken in advance of the initial public offering.
The merger reserve comprises the excess of the market value of the Xchanging plc shares issued to the Xchanging BV shareholders over the nominal value of those shares and arises as a result of the application of merger relief under Section 131 of the companies act 1985.
The reverse acquisition reserve consists of the difference between the market value of the Xchanging plc shares issued to the Xchanging BV shareholders and the total share capital and share premium of the Xchanging BV shares.
Other reserves composition of the other reserves is described in note 26.
Retained earnings These represent the accumulation of the groups net profits retained within the business, after the payment of any dividends.
Minority interests These represent the minority interests share in the assets and liabilities of both the Enterprise partnerships and of cambridge Solutions limited.
26 Other reserves Revaluation Translation hedging Other reserve reserve reserve reserves Total 000 000 000 000 000 at 1 January 2008 903 1,689 8,440 11,032 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets net of minority interest share 2,791 2,791 actuarial loss on pensions net of minority interest share 6,099 6,099 deferred tax on pensions and revaluations taken to reserves net of minority interest share 195 1,689 1,494 Foreign exchange movement on hedged item 3,208 3,208 currency translation differences net of minority interest share 9,648 9,648 At 31 December 2008 2,083 11,337 3,208 4,030 16,492 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets net of minority interest share 155 155 actuarial loss on pensions net of minority interest share 7,593 7,593 deferred tax on pensions net of minority interest share 2,170 2,170 deferred tax on revaluations net of minority interest share 79 79 Transfer of foreign exchange movement on hedged item to cost of acquisition 3,208 3,208 Share price differential on issuing cambridge shares 7,778 7,778 currency translation differences net of minority interest share 6 1,891 1,990 105 At 31 December 2009 2,013 13,228 4,395 15,610 X c h a n g i ng plc 95 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 26 Other reserves continued Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve comprises the fair value adjustments and related tax on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the group.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises the exchange adjustments arising from translating the results of foreign operations into the groups presentation currency of Sterling.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the amounts taken to equity in respect of a cash flow hedge relating to an amount placed in escrow in respect of the Open Offer as part of the cambridge Solutions limited acquisition note 30.
Other reserves The other reserves comprise the amounts taken to equity in respect of retirement benefit obligations, and differences in share price between the date of issue, and the date of control passing in respect of acquisitions.
27 Equity minority interests 2009 2008 000 000 at 1 January 15,792 15,336 Minority interests share of profit for the year 5,551 6,390 Buy out of minority interests 13 Minority interests share of actuarial loss on pensions 882 3,297 Minority interests share of deferred tax on pensions 241 906 Minority interests share of revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 169 584 Minority interests share of deferred tax on revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 76 187 Minority interests share of currency translation differences 1,027 1,934 dividends payable to minority interests 2,021 dividends paid to minority interests 4,296 5,874 At 31 December 15,518 15,792 The profits of the Xchanging group companies in which the minorities have an interest are not necessarily shared in proportion to the shareholding interest in that company as each of the individual Enterprise partnerships has a distinct contractual method of profit share.
96 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 28 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities On 13 May 2009, the group entered into an agreement with daB bank ag to acquire their FondsServiceBank FSB business unit, an investment funds administration business.
as a result of this agreement, the group will acquire all contracts with distribution partners and customers relating to the safekeeping and administration of investment fund shares for a total consideration of 19,900,000 17,900,000 at the year end closing rate in cash.
9,950,000 8,950,000 at the year end closing rate of the total consideration was paid in 2009 and has been recognised as a prepayment in the financial statements.
The remaining consideration payable of 9,950,000 will be paid during the first half of 2010.
The group will finalise the acquisition through Fondsdepot Bank FdB, its Enterprise partnership with allianz global investors.
The transaction remains subject to competition clearance by the german Federal cartel Office Bundeskartellamt but is expected to be finalised during 2010.
On 31 december 2009, the group entered an agreement with SEB Bank and SEB asset Management to acquire their SEB investmentservice SEB iSg, a B2B investment accounts business, for a total consideration of 25,000 22,500 at the year end closing rate.
The migration of the SEB iSg business onto FdBs iT platform is expected to be completed by 31 december 2010. at 31 december future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2009 2008 000 000 Within one year 18,733 11,456 later than one year but not more than five years 44,108 37,749 later than five years 17,253 19,226 The groups most significant leases are those of the premises at leadenhall Street, london, at Whitefields, Bangalore and in chicago and Frankfurt.
The london lease expires in July 2021 and was subject to a rent review in July 2009.
The german lease expires in May 2013, the Bangalore lease in February 2011 and the chicago lease in april 2012.
The group is contractually obligated to invest amounts, on behalf of the Enterprise partnerships it has established, in technology development and maintenance and in the development of new processes and systems.
The total commitment outstanding at 31 december is presented below as analysed by the period in which the commitment falls due: 2009 2008 000 000 Within one year 4,457 6,144 later than one year but not more than two years 3,333 3,333 later than two years but not more than five years 1,667 7,790 11,144 during 2008 the group put in place a guarantee covering contributions to one of its pension schemes as part of an agreement reached with the schemes trustees for funding the scheme at the 2007 actuarial valuation.
The guarantee will remain in place until 30 april 2017 and will reduce in value in line with contributions paid to the scheme under the agreed contributions schedule.
The group would be required to make contributions to the scheme under the guarantee following any of the below occurring: an insolvency event of the sponsoring employers of the scheme a failure by the sponsoring employers to make contributions to the scheme under Section 75 or Section 75a of the pensions act 1995 a failure by the sponsoring employers to make contributions to the scheme under the agreed contributions schedule within 15 business days of that payment becoming due.
X c h a n g i ng plc 97 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 29 Cash generated from operations 2009 2008 note 000 000 Profit before tax 19,458 49,166 net finance cost income 9 5,301 2,707 Operating profit 24,759 46,459 adjustment for non-cash items: employee share-based payment charges 1,911 2,131 depreciation 15 14,659 6,191 amortisation of intangibles 14 22,959 11,090 amortisation of pre-contract costs 17 1,388 1,434 loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 7 102 349 write-off of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 136 65,778 67,790 changes in working capital excluding the effects of business combinations : increase in trade and other receivables 9,923 1,480 decrease increase in payables 272 5,992 decrease increase in pensions 1,427 148 increase decrease in provisions 5,927 2,439 Cash generated from operations 62,937 69,715 30 Business combinations Cambridge Solutions Limited On 3 October 2008, Xchanging plc agreed to acquire 75% of the fully diluted share capital 76.055% of the issued share capital of cambridge Solutions limited, an international BpO and iT services provider with a global presence established through offices in eight countries, including india, the USa and australia.
cambridge Solutions limited is listed on the Bombay, national, Madras and ahmedabad stock exchanges.
This acquisition was achieved via agreements reached between Xchanging and the three major shareholders of cambridge Solutions limited.
in compliance with indian law and as a consequence of these agreements, Xchanging was required to make an Open Offer to acquire up to 20% of the fully diluted share capital of cambridge Solutions limited.
The Open Offer to the public completed on 2 april 2009, with the acquisition of shares under the share purchase agreements completing subsequently on 9 april 2009. however, pursuant to the terms of the sales and purchase agreements entered into, certain rights were assumed by Xchanging in advance of this final completion date.
a number of these rights were enacted from 1 January 2009, and therefore it is from this date that the power of operational control was considered to have passed, and is the date from which cambridge Solutions limiteds results have been consolidated by the group.
david andrews and Richard houghton were appointed to the board of cambridge Solutions limited on 12 January 2009.
The total consideration for the acquisition was 92,621,000, settled through the payment of inR 3,711,000,000 48,517,000 at the prevailing exchange rate, and through the issue of 15,249,998 Xchanging plc shares 35,895,000 based on the market share price of 235.5 pence per share prevailing on the date of operational control being assumed.
costs totalling 8,209,000 have been incurred in respect of the acquisition.
cambridge Solutions limited contributed revenue of 146,000,000, underlying profit of 6,125,000 and a statutory loss after tax of 11,500,000 to the group for the period from acquisition to 31 december 2009.
98 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 30 Business combinations continued Cambridge Solutions Limited continued The book and fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities as at 1 January 2009 are set out below: acquirees net carrying amount adjustments Fair value 000 000 000 intangible assets excluding goodwill 12,901 12,300 25,201 property, plant and equipment 8,546 34 8,512 available-for-sale financial assets 2,014 1,620 394 held-for-trading financial assets 153 1,373 1,526 deferred income tax assets 833 833 Trade and other receivables 32,668 3,137 29,531 cash and cash equivalents 4,050 103 3,947 Trade and other payables 41,524 22,803 64,327 current income tax liabilities 2,643 984 3,627 Financial liabilities borrowings 40,446 191 40,255 deferred income tax liabilities 946 8,649 9,595 provisions 15,393 10,527 25,920 Net liabilities acquired 39,787 33,993 73,780 The fair value adjustments in respect of intangible assets are due to the recognition of 23,200,000 in respect of customer relationships, offset by the write-off of 10,900,000 of intangibles recorded on cambridge Solutions limiteds balance sheet prior to the acquisition.
an adjustment to deferred income of 21,200,000 has been recognised in respect of certain run-off contracts operated by cambridge Solutions limited for which the amount of revenue previously recognised has been re-assessed in light of revised estimations of costs expected to be incurred to close all outstanding claims.
This balance is included within trade and other payables.
For details of provisions recognised as a result of the acquisition of cambridge Solutions limited, please refer to note 21.
The adjustments to current assets, current liabilities, provisions and deferred tax liabilities relate to valuation adjustments and are final, based on managements best estimates.
goodwill represents the value of both sales and cost synergies expected to arise from combining and integrating the operations of cambridge Solutions limited into the Xchanging group: the strategic premium offered by the potential for Xchanging to enter and establish critical mass in a global marketplace a global footprint : to customer relationships that are not legally secured and therefore could not be separately identified as an iFRS 3 intangible asset: and the value of the assembled cambridge workforce.
details of net liabilities acquired and goodwill are as follows: 000 purchase consideration cash 48,517 issue of shares 35,895 costs of acquisition 8,209 Total purchase consideration 92,621 Xchangings share of the fair value of net liabilities acquired 73,780 Minority interests share of the fair value of net liabilities acquired Goodwill 166,401 X c h a n g i ng plc 99 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 31 Retirement benefit obligations The group operates a number of pension plans for its qualifying employees.
The principal plans are three defined benefit schemes in the UK and two defined benefit schemes in germany.
With the exception of one scheme in germany, the defined benefit schemes are funded and assets are held in separate trustee administered funds.
For the Fondsdepot Bank scheme, there is no separate contractual Trust agreement which is in line with many german companies schemes.
as a result, pension liabilities are fully recognised on the balance sheet as a retirement benefit obligation with pension assets being integrated with the business assets.
The group also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit schemes and operates a number of defined contribution schemes.
The group introduced a salary sacrifice arrangement during 2009 for members of certain schemes.
i Defined benefit schemes The disclosures below relate to post-retirement benefit plans in the UK and germany which are accounted for as defined benefit plans in accordance with iaS 19.
The valuations used for the iaS 19 disclosures are based on the most recent actuarial valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries and updated to take account of the requirements of iaS 19 in order to assess the funding position of the plans at 31 december each year.
plan assets are shown at the market value at 31 december each year.
Financial assumptions The assumptions used by the actuaries are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the long-term nature of the schemes, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
These assumptions are as follows: 2009 2008 UK Germany UK germany % % % % Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.25 2.50 3.80 2.50 Rate of increase in pensions in payment Rpi up to 5% 3.20 n a 2.70 n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment fixed 5% 5.00 n a 5.00 n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment Rpi up to 2.5% 2.10 n a 2.00 n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment n a 2.00 n a 2.00 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.50 2.00 2.80 2.00 discount rate 5.80 5.40 6.40 5.75 inflation assumption 3.50 2.00 2.80 2.00 long-term rate of return expected at 31 december n a 5.00 n a 5.00 equities 8.50 n a 7.30 n a gilts 4.50 n a 3.80 n a bonds 5.80 n a 6.40 n a Expected return on plan assets 6.14 6.58 5.00 5.10 5.98 5.00 To develop the assumption around the expected long-term rate of return on assets, the group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return assumption for the portfolio.
The post-retirement mortality tables used for the schemes are based on country specific mortality tables, namely the pa 00 series in the UK based on year of birth with a scaling factor of 110% and with allowance for medium cohort improvements and Richtaffeln 2005 g, heubeck-Richtaffeln gmbh, Koln 2005 in germany.
The table below illustrates life expectancy assumptions at age 65 for current pensioners and future pensioners aged 45 at the accounting date: 2009 2008 UK Germany UK germany years years years years Male current pensioner 21.1 18.1 21.0 18.0 Male future pensioner 22.2 24.1 22.2 23.9 Female current pensioner 23.4 22.3 23.3 22.1 Female future pensioner 24.4 28.1 24.3 28.0 100 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued i Defined benefit schemes continued Amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of the defined benefit pension schemes The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet is: 2009 2008 UK Germany Total UK germany Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Equities 42,526 4,628 47,154 32,786 2,325 35,111 Bonds and gilts 37,981 49,090 87,071 33,107 47,113 80,220 property 3,862 3,862 2,834 2,834 cash 114 3,480 3,594 22 6,962 6,984 Other 69 508 577 4,067 5,927 9,994 Fair value of plan assets 84,552 57,706 142,258 72,816 62,327 135,143 present value of funded obligation 106,849 65,317 172,166 87,319 66,004 153,323 Net deficit recognised in the balance sheet 22,297 7,611 29,908 14,503 3,677 18,180 The net deficit of 29,908,000 2008: 18,180,000 at 31 december 2009 comprises 396,000 retirement benefit asset in respect of one of the schemes and 30,304,000 retirement benefit obligation 2008: 407,000 and 18,587,000 respectively.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2009 2008 UK Germany Total UK germany Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 current service cost 1,529 1,109 2,638 1,576 1,030 2,606 Settlements curtailments 9 9 interest cost 5,565 3,401 8,966 5,312 2,909 8,221 Expected return on plan assets 4,219 2,850 7,069 5,384 2,583 7,967 Total included within staff costs note 8 2,875 1,651 4,526 1,504 1,356 2,860 included within: cost of sales 1,529 1,100 2,629 1,576 1,030 2,606 finance costs 1,346 551 1,897 72 326 254 2,875 1,651 4,526 1,504 1,356 2,860 The total amounts for the defined benefit schemes credited charged to the statement of other comprehensive income are as follows: 2009 2008 UK Germany Total UK germany Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 actuarial losses gains 8,872 397 8,475 10,275 881 9,394 Exchange adjustments 237 237 855 855 8,872 634 8,238 10,275 26 10,249 Cumulative amounts recognised 2,996 2,901 95 5,876 2,267 8,143 X c h a n g i ng plc 101 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued i Defined benefit schemes continued Analysis of the movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2009 2008 UK Germany Total UK germany Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 present value at 1 January 87,319 66,004 153,323 89,146 50,300 139,446 current service cost 1,529 1,109 2,638 1,576 1,030 2,606 Settlements curtailments 9 9 interest cost 5,565 3,401 8,966 5,312 2,909 8,221 actuarial losses gains 15,388 861 14,527 7,475 1,819 9,294 Experience adjustments on actuarial losses 2,785 2,785 plan participants contributions paid 127 3 124 649 3 646 Benefits paid 3,079 2,647 5,726 1,889 2,479 4,368 Exchange adjustments 4,462 4,462 16,066 16,066 Present value at 31 December 106,849 65,317 172,166 87,319 66,004 153,323 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the plan assets 2009 2008 UK Germany Total UK germany Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Fair value at 1 January 72,816 62,327 135,143 82,818 47,950 130,768 Expected return on plan assets 4,219 2,850 7,069 5,384 2,583 7,967 actuarial gains losses 6,516 464 6,052 17,750 938 18,688 Employer contributions paid 3,953 134 3,819 3,604 3,604 plan participants contributions paid 127 127 649 649 Benefits paid 3,079 2,647 5,726 1,889 2,479 4,368 Exchange adjustments 4,226 4,226 15,211 15,211 Fair value at 31 December 84,552 57,706 142,258 72,816 62,327 135,143 Actual return on plan assets 10,729 2,386 13,115 12,366 1,645 10,721 The assets and liabilities at 31 december 2009 for the UK include 3,559,000 in relation to pensioner members of the london processing centre ltd Retirement and death Benefits Scheme who have insurance policies held in respect of their benefits.
102 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued i Defined benefit schemes continued Historical information of experience adjustments on plan assets and liabilities The historical information below has been presented in relation to the schemes from the later of 1 January 2005, or the date the scheme was acquired by the group.
X c h a n g i ng plc 103 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 31 Retirement benefit obligations continued ii BAE Systems defined benefit schemes The group also participates in a number of multi-employer defined benefit schemes run for the employees of BaE Systems.
The terms on which the group participates in these schemes were set in commercial agreements reached with BaE Systems during 2006.
Under the terms of these agreements, the contributions payable by the group represent the cost of accrual of future service benefits and the groups share of the deficit contributions made by BaE Systems to the schemes only not including any one-off contributions made by BaE Systems during 2006.
The contributions are expressed as fixed percentages of pensionable payroll.
The groups contribution rates to the schemes are contractually fixed and will only be affected by changes to the cost of accrual of future service benefits, as determined at the triennial valuations of the schemes.
The groups contribution rates are not affected by any future changes in the past service position of the schemes, relating to past service of its own employees or other members of the scheme.
it is not possible to identify the groups share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis.
accordingly, the group accounts for contributions to the schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes under iaS 19.
The pension cost that was charged in the income statement relating to current year contributions was 1,070,000 2008: 960,000. iii Xchanging Group defined contribution schemes The group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes for the employees of various subsidiary companies of Xchanging plc.
pension costs for the group that were charged to the income statement for the year relating to current year contributions were 7,978,000 2008: 6,178,000.
32 Financial instruments Financial risk management The groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that financial and non-financial risks arising from financial instruments are monitored and managed within acceptable and known parameters.
The groups treasury function acts as a service centre and operates within clearly defined guidelines and policies that are approved by the Board.
The guidelines and policies define the financial risks to be managed: specify the objectives in managing these risks: delegate responsibilities to those managing the risks: and establish a control framework to regulate treasury activities to minimise operational risk.
The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group may enter into derivative transactions to mitigate the exposure to these risks.
it is the groups policy that no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions be undertaken.
104 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 32 Financial instruments continued Classification of financial instruments The following tables analyse by classification and category all of the groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
assets at fair available-forloans and through value sale financial receivables profit and loss assets Total Assets as per the balance sheet note 000 000 000 000 31 December 2009 available-for-sale financial assets 16 26,264 26,264 Trade and other receivables 17 69,656 1,711 71,367 cash and cash equivalents 18 60,115 60,115 Total 129,771 1,711 26,264 157,746 31 December 2008 available-for-sale financial assets 16 26,782 26,782 Trade and other receivables 17 66,573 466 67,039 cash and cash equivalents 18 117,798 117,798 Total 184,371 466 26,782 211,619 Financial assets within trade and other receivables comprise net trade receivables, corporate income taxes receivable, other receivables, loans to related parties and deferred consideration on acquisition which have been classified as loans and receivables in the table above, and held-for-trading equity securities classified as assets at fair value through profit and loss.
liabilities at fair value Other through financial profit and loss liabilities Total Liabilities as per the balance sheet note 000 000 000 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables 19 64,488 64,488 current income tax liabilities 6,444 6,444 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 20 38,167 38,167 Finance lease liabilities 20 1,121 1,121 put options to acquire the minority interest in Enterprise partnerships 20 23,304 23,304 Total 23,304 110,220 133,524 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables 19 54,711 54,711 current income tax liabilities 4,443 4,443 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 20 276 276 put options to acquire the minority interest in Enterprise partnerships 20 24,119 24,119 Total 24,119 59,430 83,549 Financial liabilities within trade and other payables comprise trade payables, social security and other taxes and other payables which have been classified as other financial liabilities.
X c h a n g i ng plc 105 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 32 Financial instruments continued Credit facilities and liquidity management The group maintains committed credit facilities to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity to maintain its ongoing operations.
during the year the group syndicated its existing bank credit facility and increased it by 21,400,000 to 111,400,000.
The 111,400,000 comprises a 75,000,000 revolving credit facility which matures in October 2012 and a US$58,000,000 36,400,000 term loan which amortises from 31 december 2009 and matures in October 2012. as at 31 december 2009, the group had utilised US$50,000,000 31,400,000 of the term loan facility and 20,000,000 18,000,000 of the revolving credit facility.
The 20,000,000 has been utilised to support a letter of credit provided to allianz global investors in relation to the Fondsdepot Bank Enterprise partnership.
The facilities are unsecured and have financial and non-financial covenants, in respect of interest cover, leverage and minimum net worth, and obligations typical of these arrangements.
The group complied with these covenants during the period.
The group also acquired in the year the available borrowing facilities of cambridge Solutions limited which included secured term loans of inR 480,000,000 6,425,000 and US$34,000,000 21,346,000, bank overdrafts of inR 135,000,000 1,807,000, an export credit facility of inR 220,000,000 2,945,000, and an unsecured loan of US$4,700,000 2,950,000.
The secured term loans and overdrafts acquired are secured by way of a first pari passu charge on the current assets and moveable fixed assets of cambridge and a corporate guarantee.
The export credit facility is secured by way of lien of all the receivables of cambridge and a corporate guarantee.
as at 31 december 2009, the group had a balance of inR 300,000,000 4,016,000 outstanding on the secured term loans, inR 33,758,000 452,000 drawn under the bank overdrafts and an outstanding balance of inR 215,939,000 2,891,000 on the export credit facility.
during the year, scheduled payments were made on the inR term loans and the group accelerated the repayment of all outstanding balances on the US dollar denominated loans.
The group has the following undrawn committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities available: 2009 2008 000 000 Expiring within one year 1,510 5,000 Expiring later than one year but not more than two years 10,000 Expiring later than two years but not more than five years 57,000 75,000 58,510 90,000 106 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 32 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk The group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a daily cash management process and through regular cash reporting.
These processes consider the maturity of both the groups financial assets and liabilities and projected cash flows from operations.
The groups policy is to ensure that all projected borrowing needs are covered by committed facilities, maintaining minimum funding headroom defined by the Board.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the groups financial liabilities at 31 december 2009 based on contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows: Expiring later Expiring later than one year than two year Total Expiring within but not more but not more contractual one year than two years than five years amount 000 000 000 000 31 December 2009 Trade and other payables excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 53,359 53,359 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 16,116 11,450 11,385 38,951 interest on borrowings 1,436 860 427 2,723 Finance lease liabilities including related finance cost 727 277 117 1,121 Other financial liabilities 900 23,888 24,788 Total 72,538 36,475 11,929 120,942 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables excluding taxes, accruals and deferred income 45,155 11 45,166 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 276 276 Other financial liabilities 974 974 24,051 25,999 Total 46,405 985 24,051 71,441 Credit risk The groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
The group has a concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables due to the nature and structure of the Enterprise partnerships.
an analysis of all debts which are past due is included in note 17. credit risk assessments are performed when signing up to a new Enterprise partnership and for new customers.
credit risk is mitigated to an extent by the profile of companies with whom the group has entered into Enterprise partnerships, being blue chip companies.
Receivable purchase facilities are considered for specific operations where credit risk is considered higher.
The groups treasury function only transacts with counterparties that have a strong investment grade rating from a credit rating agency.
it also ensures that no exposure to any one institution at any given time exceeds the Board approved exposure limit.
Interest rate risk currently all financial liabilities are subject to floating rate interest.
The group also holds a Euro denominated financial asset which carries a fixed coupon.
The group reviews its interest rate exposure against acceptable risk profiles on a periodic basis.
Working capital is generally held in variable rate operational accounts, with surplus cash placed on fixed rate short-term deposits.
The group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impact on the income statement and equity of a reasonably possible change in market interest rates for each class of financial instruments, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: changes in market interest rates affect interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
X c h a n g i ng plc 107 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 32 Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk continued The table below demonstrates the sensitivity of the groups financial assets and liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the market interest rates to which it is exposed, with all other variables held constant: interest income Equity interest rate income Equity rate increase gains losses gains decrease gains losses losses basis points 000 000 basis points 000 000 At 31 December 2009 UK rate 100bps 273 149 25bps 68 38 US rate 100bps 23 10bps 2 indian rate 100bps 41 100bps 41 Euro rate 100bps 19 222 25bps 4 57 australian rate 100bps 38 100bps 38 Total 266 371 67 95 At 31 December 2008 UK rate 100bps 911 225 100bps 905 233 Euro rate 100bps 98 357 100bps 105 370 Total 813 582 800 603 Foreign exchange risk The international nature of the groups operations expose the group to a number of foreign currencies, and therefore to foreign exchange risk.
The group will hedge foreign exchange transaction exposure under circumstances where the risk profile is deemed unacceptable.
The group does not hedge profit translation risk.
The group will create natural balance sheet hedging by matching assets and liabilities by currency where possible.
The group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated impact on the income statement and equity of a reasonably possible change in foreign currency exchange rates for each class of financial instruments, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity analysis is based on material non-functional currency financial instruments within each entity within the group.
With a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all material currencies Euro, US dollar, indian Rupee and australian dollar, profit before tax would have decreased by approximately 3,800,000 2008: 1,000,000 or increased by 4,700,000 2008: 1,200,000 respectively, and equity would have decreased by approximately 3,100,000 2008: 4,700,000 or increased by 3,800,000 2008: 5,800,000 respectively.
Market risk and price risk The group holds listed investments, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, which expose the group to equity securities price risk.
These investments are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure their suitability according to the groups risk profile.
a 5% increase or decrease in the market value of the groups investments would have a 1,285,000 impact on equity 2008: 1,300,000 and no impact on the income statement.
108 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 32 Financial instruments continued Capital risk management The group manages capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of its capital structure.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2008.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the group manages as capital: 2009 2008 000 000 Shareholders funds attributable to Xchanging shareholders 274,296 242,588 Bank loans and overdrafts 37,968 Obligations under finance leases 1,121 cash in hand and at bank 60,115 117,728 At 31 December 253,270 124,860 The group does not set a target level of gearing but uses capital opportunistically to add value to shareholders.
in order to maintain the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders and sell or purchase assets to reduce or increase debt.
The group seeks to maintain a strong credit profile to aid its ability to partner in business.
The group will ordinarily aim not to exceed net debt of 2.0 times XEBiTda Xchangings share of EBiTda where net debt is defined as all financial indebtedness less cash.
The group was not in a net debt position at 31 december 2009 or 31 december 2008.
Xchanging operates in a number of regulatory regimes.
The securities processing and retail investment account management businesses in germany, Xchanging Transaction Bank XTB and Fondsdepot Bank, maintain banking licences and are regulated under the german Federal Financial Supervisory authority BaFin.
components of the insurance businesses are regulated in the UK by the Financial Services authority FSa.
The group has complied with all the BaFin and FSa regulations during 2009.
X c h a n g i ng plc 109 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2009 continued 33 Related party transactions The following companies are considered to be related parties of the group as they hold minority shareholdings in a number of the subsidiaries of Xchanging plc.
The corporation of lloyds held a 25% interest in ins-sure holdings limited and a 50% interest in Xchanging claims Services limited for the full year ended 31 december 2009.
Some of the directors of Xchanging claims Services limited are employees of the corporation of lloyds.
The emoluments of these directors were borne by the corporation of lloyds.
The international Underwriting association held a 25% interest in ins-sure holdings limited for the full year ended 31 december 2009. deutsche Bank ag held a 44% interest in Xchanging etb gmbh for the full year ended 31 december 2009.
Some of the directors of Xchanging etb gmbh are employees of deutsche Bank ag.
The emoluments of these directors were borne by deutsche Bank ag.
aon limited held a 50% interest in Xchanging Broking Services limited for the full year ended 31 december 2009.
Some of the directors of Xchanging Broking Services limited are employees of aon limited.
The emoluments of these directors were borne by aon limited.
allianz global investors  mbh held a 49% interest in Fondsdepot Bank gmbh for the full year ended 31 december 2009. during the year cambridge integrated Services group inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, entered into a contract with campagnie pour assistance Technique et investissements S. a. to provide consulting services, business development and procurement services.
Scandent holdings Mauritius limited, the previous owner of cambridge Solutions limited, is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of the fact that its directors have representation on the board of cambridge Solutions limited.
a description of the nature of the services provided to from these companies by to the group and the amount receivable payable in respect of each at 31 december, are set out in the table below: Year end Sales purchases Receivables payables 2009 2008 2009 2008 Services provided by to the Group 000 000 000 000 Securities processing services 116,881 96,856 6,074 2,756 processing, expert and data services 40,699 35,327 6,432 1,318 property charges 648 994 consultancy, business development and procurement services 4,789 1,570 iT costs, premises, divisional corporate charges and other services in support of operating activities 27,738 28,847 8,907 7,528 Operating systems, development, premises and other services in support of operating activities 312 420 141 82 desktop, hosting, telecommunications, accommodation and processing services 4,279 3,741 1,624 2,057 current accounts 4,679 2,619 There have been provisions totalling 408,000 2008: nil recognised against receivables from related parties.
110 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 33 Related party transactions continued Transactions with Directors and key management The compensation disclosure below relates to the Xchanging plc directors and key senior managers within the group, who constitute the people having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the groups activities, being the Xchanging Management Board.
2009 2008 Key management compensation including Directors 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 7,513 6,662 post-employment benefits 114 102 Share-based payments 687 597 Termination benefits 205 Total key management compensation including Directors 8,519 7,361 Further information regarding Xchanging plc directors remuneration is disclosed in the remuneration report on pages 47 to 53 which forms part of these financial statements.
The total gain made by directors and key management during the year from the exercise of share options was 2,185,000 2008: 581,000. during 2007, loans were provided by the Xchanging BV Employee Benefit Trust to a number of employees including directors and key management personnel to enable them to purchase shares in Xchanging BV these shares have been subsequently exchanged for shares in Xchanging plc.
The loans are non-interest bearing and become repayable on the earlier of the cessation of employment, transfer or disposal of the shares, acceptance of another loan from the group to refinance the shares and 31 december 2011.
The Xchanging BV Employee Benefit Trust has a call option over the shares until the loans are repaid in full.
The balances due from the directors and key management and the carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements are: 2009 2008 Balance Carrying Balance carrying outstanding amount outstanding amount 000 000 000 000 S Beard 1,088 1,088 1,590 1,590 c Buesnel 530 530 R houghton 663 663 663 663 d Rich-Jones 35 35 1,325 1,325 T Runge 176 176 1,962 1,962 4,108 4,108 The following table shows amounts due from those individuals who were either directors or members of key management at 2008 but have subsequently left the group and are therefore no longer considered to be related parties of the group.
The information is provided for comparative purposes only.
2009 2008 Balance Carrying Balance carrying outstanding amount outstanding amount 000 000 000 000 a Browne 663 663 663 663 M Bruno 424 424 424 424 M Margetts 398 398 X c h a n g i ng plc 111
