annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Financial statements independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc on the parent company financial statements We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 december 2009 which Act 2006 comprise the company balance sheet, the company cash in our opinion: flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting the part of the remuneration report to be audited has been framework that has been applied in their preparation is properly prepared in accordance with the companies act applicable law and United Kingdom accounting Standards 2006: and United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
the information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financials statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial as explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statements.
statement set out on page 37, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements where the companies act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in accordance with applicable law and international Standards in our opinion: on auditing UK and ireland.
Those standards require us to adequate accounting records have not been kept by the comply with the auditing Standards Boards Ethical Standards parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not for auditors.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with only for the companys members as a body in accordance with the accounting records and returns: or chapter 3 of part 16 of the companies act 2006 and for no certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or law are not made: or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other we have not received all the information and explanations person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it we require for our audit.
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matters We have reported separately on the group financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 december 2009. an audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Paul Aitken Senior Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances For and on behalf of  LLP and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: chartered accountants and Statutory auditors the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made london by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 1 March 2010 statements.
Opinion on financial statements in our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 december 2009 and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the companies act 2006.
