Babcock International Group PLC 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Babcock International Group PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
A Form of Proxy for the Annual General Meeting is enclosed and should be completed and returned so as to reach the Companys registrar no later than 11.00 am on Tuesday 7 July 2009.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at the Meeting in person, should you so wish.
BABCOCK INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the members of Babcock International Group PLC the Company will be held at Chandos House, 2 Queen Anne Street, London W1G 9LQ on Thursday 9 July 2009, at 11.00 am for the transaction of the following business: As Ordinary Business: 1.
To receive the Directors and Auditors reports and the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To reappoint Sir Nigel Essenhigh as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr Justin Crookenden as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Lord Hesketh as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Sir David Omand as a Director of the Company.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2009.
To reappoint  LLP as independent auditors.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the independent auditors, as they shall in their discretion see fit.
As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions 10.
That the rules of the Babcock International Group PLC Performance Share Plan 2009 PSP, as produced in draft to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for purposes of identification, and of which a summary is found in Appendix 1 to this notice of meeting, are hereby approved and adopted and the Directors are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary to carry the PSP into effect.
That the rules of the Babcock International Group PLC Company Share Option Plan 2009 CSOP, as produced in draft to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for purposes of identification, and of which a summary is found in Appendix 2 to this notice of meeting, are hereby approved and adopted and the Directors are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary to carry the CSOP into effect.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company and all companies that are its subsidiaries at any time during the period for which this resolution is effective are authorised to: a make political donations to a political party or to an independent election candidate: b make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and c incur any political expenditure, up to an aggregate amount of 100,000, and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs a to c shall also be limited to such amount, during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on 30 September 2010 or, if sooner, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010.
For the purpose of this resolution political donation, political party, political organisation, independent election candidate and political expenditure are to be construed in accordance with sections 363, 364 and 365 of the 2006 Act.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the 1985 Act : a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 45,869,076: and b comprising equity securities as defined in section 94 of the 1985 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount when added to any allotments made under a above of 91,738,153 in connection with or pursuant to an offer or invitation by way of a rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them on the record date for such allotment and holders of any other class of equity securities entitled to participate therein or if the Directors consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical difficulties which may arise under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory or any other matter whatsoever, these authorities to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authorities conferred hereby had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 13 above, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 1 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to: a allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of the 1985 Act of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 13: and b sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of the 1985 Act held by the Company as treasury shares as provided for in section 94 3 of the 1985 Act treasury shares for cash as defined in section 162D 2 of the 1985 Act, as if section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash and the sale of treasury shares: i in connection with or pursuant to an offer or invitation but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 13 b, by way of a rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as practicable to the respective number of equity securities held by them on the record date for such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever: or ii in the case of the authority granted under resolution 13 a above, and otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,887,248, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or enter into any agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Babcock International Group PLC 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued 15.
That the Company is hereby authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares of 60p each ordinary shares in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 22,950,000 shares: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is not less than the nominal value thereof exclusive of the expenses of purchase: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share exclusive of the expenses of purchase shall not exceed 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date falling 12 months from the date of this resolution or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010, whichever shall be the earlier, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make purchases of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That a general meeting of the Company other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
A N Dungate Company Secretary 8 June 2009 Registered Office: 33 Wigmore Street, London W1U 1QX.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes: 1.
As required by the Combined Code, the reasons why the Board of the Company believes that the Non-Executive Directors standing for reappointment should be reappointed are set out in the Accompanying Notes on page 112.
An explanation of the special business resolutions is given in the Explanatory Notes on pages 113 and 114.
Only holders of shares are entitled to attend and vote at this meeting.
A member is entitled to appoint another person as their proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, to speak and to vote at the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A holder of ordinary shares must be entered on the relevant register of securities in respect of such shareholding not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting.
A form of proxy is available and, to be effective, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and returned so as to be received by the Registrars of the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the meeting.
Copies of the terms of appointment under which the Non-Executive Directors of the Company are engaged, Executive Directors service agreements and a copy of the proposed PSP resolution10 and CSOP resolution11 are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company by close of business on 7 July 2009 or, in the event of any adjournment, by close of business on the date which is two days before the day of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between them and the member by whom they were nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Babcock International Group PLC 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued 10.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which Annual Report and Accounts were laid in each case that the members propose to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
As at 20 May 2009 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 229,574,959 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date were 229,574,959.
Any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice of Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form may not be used to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Accompanying Notes The Combined Code requires the Board to set out the reasons why it believes that the Non-Executive Directors standing for reappointment should be reappointed.
These are as follows: Lord Hesketh The Board continues to value highly the contribution that Lord Hesketh brings to its meetings, with his longer term experience of the Groups activities and the markets in which it operates, together with his wide experience in a variety of commercial and political spheres.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh Sir Nigel has served on the Board and its Committees since 2003, playing a full part in their deliberations.
His perspective on defence matters generally, especially naval affairs both key markets for the Group, is particularly valuable.
The Board believes his continuation as a Director will be of significant benefit to the Company.
Justin Crookenden Mr Crookenden has served on the Board and its Committees since December 2005 and was appointed Remuneration Committee Chairman with effect from 1 April 2009.
The Company benefits greatly from the broad perspective and astute intellectual and business insight he brings from his wide experience in his former role as a financial adviser to a range of leading companies, especially in the field of mergers and acquisitions.
Sir David Omand Sir David was appointed as a Director by the Board with effect from 1 April 2009.
The Board believes that his wide experience at the highest levels in both domestic and international affairs and in strategic thinking will be a great asset to the Company.
Note from the Chairman: I can confirm, as required by the Combined Code, that having fully evaluated their performances, the Board is of the view that each of Lord Hesketh, Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Justin Crookenden and Sir David Omand continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Mike Turner Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Explanatory notes The ordinary business of the meeting and the resolutions under special business to be proposed as ordinary resolutions can be passed if the votes cast for the resolutions are more than those cast against.
The resolutions to be proposed as special resolutions can be passed if at least 75% of the votes cast for or against the resolutions are in favour.
Resolutions 3 and 4: Each of Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Justin Crookenden was last reappointed as a Director in 2006 and is therefore offering himself for reappointment as required by the Companys Articles of Association and in accordance with the Combined Code.
Resolution 5: Lord Hesketh offers himself for reappointment annually as required by the Combined Code, having served more than nine years as a Director.
Resolution 6: Sir David Omand, having been appointed by the Board as a Director with effect from 1 April 2009, is submitting himself for reappointment as required by the Companys Articles of Association, this being the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
Resolution 7: This is to approve the Directors Remuneration report for the financial year ended on 31 March 2009.
The Report can be found on pages 48 to 60 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Resolution 10: The effect of this resolution is to give the Directors authority to adopt the PSP and operate it in accordance with its rules.
A detailed summary of the principal terms of the PSP is set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and forms part of that Notice.
Resolution 11: The effect of this resolution is to give the Directors authority to adopt the CSOP and operate it in accordance with its rules.
A detailed summary of the principal terms of the CSOP is set out in Appendix 2 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and forms part of that Notice.
The CSOP would be an HM Revenue & Customs approved option plan, which means that there will potentially be income tax benefits for participants and savings of National Insurance contributions for both participants and the Company provided certain conditions are satisfied.
As an HM Revenue & Customs approved option plan, the CSOP is subject to certain statutory limitations, including being limited to UK-based employees and a limit on the maximum value of options available.
Resolution 12: It is the Companys policy not to make political donations or incur political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
However, certain activities undertaken in the usual course of business may fall within the legal definition of political donation or political expenditure.
The authority is sought annually to ensure that all the activities of the Company fully comply with the law.
Resolution 13: The Directors may only allot shares or grant rights over shares if authorised to do so by shareholders.
13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant a new authority to allot a unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal value of 45,869,076, and b equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount when added to allotments under part a of the resolution of 91,738,153 where the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
These amounts represent approximately 33.3% and approximately 66.7% respectively of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 20 May 2009.
As at the date of the notice of this meeting the Company held no treasury shares.
If given, this authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Resolution 14: The Directors also require additional authority from shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution 14 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
Apart from offers or invitations in proportion to the respective number of shares held, the authority will be limited to the issue of shares and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,887,248 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 20 May 2009.
The Directors will have due regard to institutional guidelines in relation to any exercise of this authority, in particular the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any such issue which exceeds 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period.
With the exception of issues, if necessary, of further shares under the Companys executive or employee share schemes, the Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority, but consider it desirable to have the flexibility to use it should opportunities arise.
Babcock International Group PLC 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued Resolution 15: This will be proposed as a Special Resolution and will renew the general authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The renewed authority, in respect of a little under 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 20 May 2009, would be exercisable with a minimum purchase price of 60p per share and a maximum price of not more than 105% of the average middle market quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days preceding the day of purchase.
If granted, the authority would expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or, if earlier, 12 months from the date of the resolution.
Shares purchased under the authority would either be cancelled or held by the Company as treasury shares.
The Directors have no present intention of using this power, and would only exercise the power if they were satisfied at any time that it was in the best interests of shareholders generally to do so, and that except in the case of a purchase of own shares to be held as treasury shares to fulfil obligations under the Companys executive or employee share schemes any purchase would be likely to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Company has no warrants outstanding and the total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding on 20 May 2009 being the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of meeting was 559,501 representing 0.24% of issued share capital as at 20 May 2009.
If the full authority to buy back shares were to be used, and the shares cancelled, these outstanding options would represent 0.27% of issued share capital.
Resolution 16: This is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholder Rights Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Appendix 1 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of Proposed Performance Share Plan Resolution No.
10 The Babcock International Group PLC Performance Share Plan 2009 Plan Status of the Plan Awards granted under the Plan Awards will have no beneficial tax status.
Eligibility All employees including Executive Directors of Babcock International Group PLC Company or any of its subsidiaries together with the Company, the Group will be eligible to be granted Awards.
Grant The remuneration committee of the board Remuneration Committee will have absolute discretion to select the persons to whom Awards are to be granted and, subject to the limits set out below, in determining the number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares to be subject to each Award.
Each Award will take the form of an option to acquire Ordinary Shares for nil consideration.
As an alternative, the Remuneration Committee will have discretion to make Awards in the form of a conditional right to acquire Ordinary Shares for no consideration, in which case it may make such amendments to the rules of the Plan as may be required to give effect to this.
If this arrangement is adopted, Ordinary Shares will be transferred to an Award holder immediately following vesting of an Award.
The Plan will be operated in conjunction with the existing employee benefit trusts operated by the Group each an EBT.
Awards may be granted during the period of 42 days commencing on: a the date on which the Plan is adopted by the Company: b the dealing day immediately following the date of the preliminary announcement of the Companys annual results or the announcement of its half-yearly results in any year: or c any other date fixed by the Remuneration Committee where, in its discretion, it considers circumstances to be exceptional so as to justify the grant of Awards on that date.
If the grant of an Award on any of the above days would be prohibited by virtue of the Model Code or any statute or regulation or any order made pursuant to such statute a Restriction, then such Award may be granted during the period of 40 days commencing immediately after the second dealing day following the time that such Restriction ceases to have effect.
No consideration is payable for the grant of an Award.
Dividends If a dividend or other cash distribution is paid by the Company in respect of Ordinary Shares during the period prior to the vesting of an Award, Award holders will not immediately be entitled to receive the distribution in respect of the Ordinary Shares which are the subject of their Awards.
Instead, an amount equal to the aggregate value of such distributions will be payable to the Award holder when the Award is exercised Dividend Equivalent Cash.
Alternatively, the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to increase the number of Ordinary Shares which are subject to an Award by an amount equal to the aggregate value of such distributions calculated as if the distribution had been invested in Ordinary Shares as at the date of payment of such distribution to shareholders Dividend Equivalent Shares.
To the extent that an Award does not become exercisable, any right to Dividend Equivalent Cash or Dividend Equivalent Shares will fall away.
Plan limits No Award may be granted under the Plan if, as a result, the aggregate nominal value of Ordinary Shares issued or intended to be issuable by the Company pursuant to that Award and any Awards granted during the previous ten years under the Plan or any other employees share plan, profit sharing plan or employee share ownership plan adopted by the Company would exceed 10% of the nominal value of the share capital of the Company in issue on the date of that Award were it to be made.
In addition, no Award may be granted under the Plan if, as a result, the aggregate nominal value of Ordinary Shares issued or intended to be issuable by the Company pursuant to that Award and Awards granted during the previous ten years under the Plan or any other discretionary share plan as opposed to an all-employee plan adopted by the Company would exceed 5% of the nominal value of the share capital of the Company in issue on the date of that Award were it to be made.
For the avoidance of doubt, Dividend Equivalent Shares already acquired would count for the above purposes, but potential future Dividend Equivalent Shares would not.
Any Ordinary Shares which are already in issue when made subject to an Award or which are subject to an Award which has lapsed will be disregarded for the purpose of the above limits.
If it is intended that an Award is to be settled with Ordinary Shares which have been or are intended to be acquired in the market by an EBT, those Ordinary Shares will be disregarded for the purposes of the above limits.
Babcock International Group PLC 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued Individual limit In general, no Award may be granted under the Plan to an employee if the aggregate Market Value on the date of the proposed grant of the Ordinary Shares which are to be subject to that Award, when aggregated with the Market Value on the date such other Award was granted of the Ordinary Shares which the employee may acquire in relation to other Awards already granted to the employee under the Plan in the same financial year of the Company as the proposed grant, would exceed 150% of the employees salary as at the date of the proposed grant.
All references to Market Value on a particular date are to the average of the middle market prices for an Ordinary Share for the three dealing days immediately preceding that date.
The limit referred to above may be increased to up to 200% of an employees salary in circumstances which the Remuneration Committee considers to be exceptional, for example, for the purposes of recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee currently has no intention of making an Award over Ordinary Shares of a Market Value which would exceed 150% of salary.
Performance targets The exercise of Awards under the Plan will, in normal circumstances, be made conditional upon the achievement of performance targets set at the time of grant.
Performance targets will be measured over a three-year performance period, which will not begin before the start of the financial year in which the Award is granted, as determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant Performance Period.
The Remuneration Report set out in the Companys 2009 Annual Report describes on page 58 the performance targets which it is intended will apply to Awards made under the Plan to Executive Directors in 2009, subject to approval of the Plan by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Different performance targets, for example, Divisional performance targets, may be applied to Awards made to other Award holders as also described in that Report.
If events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider that a different or amended target would be a fairer measure of performance, the Remuneration Committee will be able to modify the original performance target in such manner as it deems fit.
It should also be noted that a performance target may be measured over a period shorter than the normal Performance Period in circumstances where an employee ceases to be a Group employee, or certain corporate events occur such as a change of control of the Company, before the end of the relevant Performance Period.
In these circumstances the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to modify the performance target as it thinks fit.
Exercise of Awards Awards will become capable of exercise following a date Vesting Date, specified at the time of grant, which occurs on or after the expiry of the relevant Performance Period.
In the event that there has been a material delay in the grant of an Award beyond the date on or about which the Remuneration Committee would otherwise, but for the existence of a Restriction, have granted the Award, the Remuneration Committee would be able, but not obliged, to stipulate a Notional Award Date for that Award being the date which it reasonably considers would have been the date on or about which it would have made such Award had the Restriction not existed or such later date after that date as it may choose.
The Vesting Date will not be before the expiry of the Performance Period or earlier than the expiry of a period of three years from and including the Award Date or, if applicable, the Notional Award Date for that Award.
Normally, an Award may only be exercised following the occurrence of the Vesting Date to the extent that the performance target has been satisfied and if the Award holder is still an employee within the Group.
Awards may not be exercised during any prohibited period specified by the Model Code.
An Award will ordinarily only be exercisable during a period commencing immediately after its Vesting Date and ending on a date specified at grant End Date and will lapse on the expiry of such period.
However, if an Award holder is prevented from exercising such Award before the end of such period by virtue of a restriction imposed by the Model Code, the Award will be exercisable within the period of 30 days after the Company notifies him in writing that Model Code restrictions no longer exist to prevent the exercise.
The Remuneration Committee will also have a discretion to permit exercise of an Award after the specified period, although no Award may be exercised after the date immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may subject to the approval of the trustee of the relevant EBT determine that, in substitution for the Award holders right to acquire the Ordinary Shares which are subject to an Award, the Award holder shall instead be paid a cash sum which is equal to the market value of such Ordinary Shares including any Dividend Equivalent Shares on the date on which the Award is exercised.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Cessation of employment If an Award holder dies, any Awards held by him or her may be exercised subject to any reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares which are subject to such Award which is applied by the Remuneration Committee as described below at any time during the 12-month period or such shorter period as is determined by the Remuneration Committee following the date of death.
If an Award holder ceases to be employed within the Group by reason of injury, ill health or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, redundancy, retirement, or upon the sale or transfer out of the Group of the company or undertaking employing the Award holder each a Good Reason and such an Award holder, a Good Leaver, then: as regards Awards for which the Vesting Date has not by then occurred, he or she must normally wait until the normal Vesting Date in respect of the Award before being permitted to exercise it save that the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion instead to allow the Award holder to exercise some or all of such unvested Awards within the period of 12 months, or such shorter period as is determined by the Remuneration Committee, following the date of cessation of employment : and as regards Awards for which the Vesting Date has by then occurred but which have not yet been exercised, he or she will be able to exercise those Awards within 12 months or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may decide of the cessation of employment, provided that the number of Ordinary Shares which are subject to such Award may be reduced as described below and no Award may be exercised after the End Date for the Award unless the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to extend the End Date.
Ordinarily, where an Award holder ceases to be employed within the Group or gives notice to terminate his or her employment for any reason other than a Good Reason, any Awards held by him or her whether vested or not will lapse and cease to be exercisable.
However, the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion, subject to such additional conditions as it determines including a power to reduce the number of shares under Award whether such Award has vested or not, to permit the Award holder to exercise some or all of his or her Awards on the same basis as a Good Leaver.
The Committee will be able to exercise its discretions mentioned above differently, as it thinks appropriate, as regards different Awards held by the same Award holder.
Any exercise of an Award where the Award holder has ceased to be an employee prior to the Vesting Date for the Award will be subject to: the prior satisfaction of the performance target subject to such adjustments as the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate in the circumstances : and in the case of a Good Leaver, the reduction of the maximum number of Ordinary Shares over which the Award is capable of being exercised.
This reduction will normally be on a time apportioned basis based on how much of the period between the Award Date or, if applicable, the Notional Award Date and the normal Vesting Date for the Award is left to run as at the date of the cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee will, though, have discretion, having regard to all the circumstances, not to apply pro-rating or to allow the Award to be exercised over more than a strictly time-apportioned number of shares.
In the case of an Award holder who leaves with unexercised Awards whether before or after the Vesting Date of an Award who is not a Good Leaver but whom the Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion to treat as a Good Leaver, the reduction can be more than a time-apportioned reduction whether the Award held by such deemed Good Leaver has vested or not.
Takeover and other corporate events Exercise of Awards is also possible earlier than the Vesting Date if the Company is the subject of a takeover or a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 sanctioned by the court, or if the Company is voluntarily wound up.
In the case of a takeover of the Company or the transfer out of the Group of the undertaking employing the Award holder concerned, the Remuneration Committee may allow the Award to be exercised immediately before, but with effect from, the takeover or the transfer of the undertaking concerned.
Any exercise of an Award in such circumstances will be subject to: the prior satisfaction of the performance target subject to such adjustments as the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate in the circumstances : and the reduction of the maximum number of Ordinary Shares over which the Award is capable of being exercised.
This reduction will normally be on a time apportioned basis based on how much of the period between the Award Date or, if applicable, the Notional Award Date and the normal Vesting Date for the Award is left to run as at the date of the relevant event.
Babcock International Group PLC 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued Other Award terms Awards will not be capable of transfer or assignment.
Until Awards are exercised, Award holders will have no voting or other rights subject to the rights relating to dividends as set out above in relation to the Ordinary Shares subject to those Awards.
Ordinary Shares acquired on the exercise of an Award will rank pari passu in all respects with the Ordinary Shares already in issue but will not rank for any dividends or other distributions payable by reference to a record date preceding the date of acquisition.
Ordinary Shares acquired on the exercise of an Award will be acquired without the benefit of any rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares by reference to a record date preceding the date of that exercise.
Benefits obtained under the Plan will not be pensionable.
Administration and amendment The Plan will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board of the Company will be able to amend the provisions of the Plan.
However, the rules of the Plan which relate to: the persons to whom Ordinary Shares are provided under the Plan: the limits on the number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued under the Plan: the maximum entitlement of any Award holder: the basis for determining an Award holders entitlement to Ordinary Shares or Awards: and the basis for determining the adjustment of any Award granted under the Plan following any increase or variation in the share capital of the Company will not be capable of being amended by the Board to the advantage of any Award holder or potential Award holder without the prior approval of the Company in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of any change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for Award holders or any Group company.
The Remuneration Committee will have the discretion, in respect of employees of the Group who are resident for tax purposes outside the UK, to amend or alter the provisions of any Award to take account of overseas taxation or securities law.
However, the Remuneration Committee will not be able to make any such amendment or alteration if this would result in an Award being made upon terms commercially more favourable than the terms upon which an Award could have been granted if such person was tax resident in the UK.
Adjustment of Awards In the event of any increase or variation in the share capital of the Company, the Remuneration Committee may, with the consent of the relevant EBT trustee, make such adjustment as it deems appropriate to the number of Ordinary Shares comprised in each Award and or the nominal value of the Ordinary Shares subject to Awards.
Termination The Plan may be terminated at any time by resolution of the Board of the Company and will in any event terminate on the tenth anniversary of its adoption so that no further Awards can be granted under the Plan after termination.
Termination will not affect the outstanding rights of existing Award holders.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Appendix 2 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of Proposed Approved Executive Share Option Plan Resolution No.
11 The Babcock International Group PLC Company Share Option Plan 2009 the CSOP Status of the CSOP The CSOP is designed to be capable of approval by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC under Schedule 4 of the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 ITEPA.
The terms of the CSOP summarised below are subject to any amendment required by HMRC in order to achieve approved status.
Eligibility All employees including full time executive directors of Babcock International Group PLC Company or any of its subsidiaries together with the Company, the Group will be eligible to be granted options over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares under the CSOP provided that they are not prohibited under the relevant legislation relating to HMRC approved company share option plans from being granted an option by virtue of having, or having had, a material interest in the Company.
Grant The remuneration committee of the board Remuneration Committee will have absolute discretion to select the persons to whom options are to be granted and, subject to the limits set out below, in determining the number of Ordinary Shares to be subject to each option.
No options may be granted unless and until the CSOP has been formally approved by HMRC under Schedule 4 to ITEPA.
The CSOP may be operated in conjunction with the existing employee benefit trusts operated by the Group each an EBT.
Options may be granted during the period of 42 days commencing on: a the date on which the CSOP is adopted by the Company: b the dealing day immediately following the date of the preliminary announcement of the Companys annual results or the announcement of its half-yearly results in any year provided that if the Ordinary Shares continue to be admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority at the time in question, no option shall be granted during the first two dealing days following the date of any such announcement : or c any other date fixed by the Remuneration Committee where, in its discretion, it considers circumstances to be exceptional so as to justify the grant of options on that date.
If the grant of an option on any of the above days would be prohibited by virtue of the Model Code or any statute or regulation or any order made pursuant to such statute, then such option may be granted during the period of 40 days commencing immediately after the second dealing day following the time that such prohibition shall cease to have effect.
No consideration is payable for the grant of an option.
CSOP limits No option may be granted under the CSOP if, as a result, the aggregate nominal value of Ordinary Shares issued or intended to be issuable by the Company pursuant to that option and any options granted during the previous ten years under the CSOP or any other employees share scheme, profit sharing scheme or employee share ownership plan adopted by the Company would exceed 10 per cent of the nominal value of the share capital of the Company in issue on that date.
No option may be granted under the CSOP if, as a result, the aggregate nominal value of Ordinary Shares issued or issuable pursuant to options granted during the previous ten years under the CSOP or any other discretionary employees share scheme which excludes any Save As You Earn Scheme approved by HMRC, a share incentive plan approved by HMRC under Schedule 2 to ITEPA or any other share option scheme of the Company which is linked to a contractual savings scheme adopted by the Company would exceed five per cent of the nominal value of the share capital of the Company in issue on that date.
For the avoidance of doubt, any Ordinary Shares which are already in issue when placed under option or subject to an option which has lapsed will be disregarded for the purpose of the above limits.
If it is intended that an option is to be settled with Ordinary Shares which have been or are intended to be acquired in the market by an EBT, those Ordinary Shares will be disregarded for the purposes of the above limits.
Individual limit Each individuals participation is limited so that the aggregate market value of Ordinary Shares subject to all options calculated as at the date of grant of each option held by that individual and granted under the CSOP or any other HMRC approved company share option plan operated by the Company or any associated company, shall not exceed 30,000 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
Babcock International Group PLC 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued Exercise price The exercise price per Ordinary Share under an option is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant but may not be less than the greater of i the market value of an Ordinary Share as at the date of grant and ii in the case of an option to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, the nominal value of an Ordinary Share.
The exercise price as well as the number of Ordinary Shares under option and their nominal value may be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee in the event of any capitalisation issue or rights issue other than an issue of Ordinary Shares pursuant to the exercise of an option given to the shareholders of the Company to receive shares in lieu of a dividend or rights offer or any other variation in the share capital of the Company including without limitation any consolidation, subdivision or reduction of capital.
Any such adjustment will require the prior approval of HMRC.
Performance targets The exercise of options granted under the CSOP will, in normal circumstances, be made conditional upon the achievement of objective performance targets set at the time of grant.
Performance targets will be measured over a performance period, which will not begin before the start of the financial year in which the option is granted, as determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant Performance Period.
If events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider that a different or amended target would be a fairer measure of performance, the Remuneration Committee will be able to modify the original performance target in such manner as it reasonably deems fit provided that any such amended target is not materially more difficult to achieve than the original performance target.
It should also be noted that in circumstances where an employee ceases to be a Group employee, or certain corporate events occur such as a change of control of the Company, before the end of the relevant Performance Period, the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to assess the performance target on a modified basis having regard to the abbreviated Performance Period, provided that any such amended target is not materially more difficult to achieve than the original performance target.
Exercise of options Options will become capable of exercise following a date Vesting Date, specified at the time of grant, which occurs after the expiry of the relevant Performance Period.
The Vesting Date for an option may not occur before the third anniversary of the date on which the option is granted.
Normally, an option may only be exercised following the occurrence of the Vesting Date to the extent that the performance target has been satisfied and if the option holder is still an employee within the Group.
An option may not be exercised later than the day immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of its date of grant and, unless exercised, will lapse on the tenth anniversary of its date of grant.
Options may not be exercised during any prohibited period specified by the Model Code.
Cessation of Employment If an option holder dies, any options held by him or her may be exercised subject to any reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares which are subject to such options which is applied by the Remuneration Committee as described below at any time during the twelve month period following the date of death.
If an option holder ceases to be employed within the Group by reason of injury, ill health or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the Remuneration Committee, redundancy, or retirement on or after reaching the age of 55, or upon the sale or transfer out of the Group of the company or undertaking employing the option holder each a Good Reason and such an option holder, a Good Leaver, then: as regards options for which the Vesting Date has not by then occurred, he or she must normally wait until the normal Vesting Date in respect of the option before being permitted to exercise it save that the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion instead to allow the option holder to exercise some or all of such unvested options within the period of six months following the date of cessation of employment : and as regards options for which the Vesting Date has by then occurred but which have not yet been exercised, he or she will be able to exercise those options within six months of the cessation of employment, provided that the number of Ordinary Shares which are subject to such option may be reduced as described below and no option may be exercised later than the day immediately prior to the tenth anniversary of its date of grant.
Other information 107 124 Babcock International Group PLC 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Ordinarily, where an option holder ceases to be employed within the Group or gives notice to terminate his or her employment for any reason other than a Good Reason, any options held by him or her whether vested or not will lapse and cease to be exercisable.
However, the Remuneration Committee will have the discretion, subject to such additional conditions as it determines including a power to reduce the number of shares under option whether such option has vested or not, to permit the option holder to exercise some or all of his or her options on the same basis as a Good Leaver.
Any exercise of an option where the option holder has ceased to be an employee prior to the Vesting Date for the option will be subject to: the prior satisfaction of the performance target subject to any adjustment of the performance target made by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the rules of the CSOP : and in the case of a Good Leaver, the reduction of the maximum number of Ordinary Shares over which the option is capable of being exercised.
This will normally be based on how much of the period between the date of grant of the option and the normal Vesting Date for the option is left to run as at the date of the cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee will, though, have discretion, having regard to all the circumstances, not to apply pro-rating or to allow the option to be exercised over more than a strictly time-apportioned number of shares.
In the case of an option holder who leaves with unexercised options whether before or after the Vesting Date of an option who is not a Good Leaver but whom the Remuneration Committee has exercised its discretion to treat as a Good Leaver, the reduction can be more than a time-apportioned reduction whether the option held by such deemed Good Leaver has vested or not.
Takeover and other corporate events Exercise of options is also possible earlier than the Vesting Date if the Company is the subject of a takeover or a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 sanctioned by the court, or if the Company is voluntarily wound up.
In the case of a takeover of the Company or the transfer out of the Group of the undertaking employing the option holder concerned, the Remuneration Committee may allow the option to be exercised immediately before, but with effect from, the takeover or the transfer of the undertaking concerned.
Any exercise of an option in such circumstances will be subject to: the prior satisfaction of the performance target subject to any modification or waiver of the performance target in accordance with the rules of the CSOP : and the reduction of the maximum number of Ordinary Shares over which the option is capable of being exercised.
This reduction will normally be based on how much of the period between the date of grant of the option and the normal Vesting Date for the option is left to run as at the date of the cessation of employment.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, an option holder may be allowed to exchange his option for a new option over shares in the acquiring company, provided that the acquiring company agrees to such exchange and the rights under the new option are equivalent to those under the old option.
Other option terms & Issues of Ordinary Shares The CSOP provides the facility for the exercise of an option to be satisfied by either the issue of Ordinary Shares, the transfer of Ordinary Shares held by an existing shareholder who has agreed to satisfy the exercise of the option or by the transfer of Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
Options will not be capable of transfer or assignment.
Until options are exercised, option holders will have no voting or other rights in relation to the Ordinary Shares subject to those options.
Ordinary Shares allotted on the exercise of an option will rank pari passu in all respects with the Ordinary Shares already in issue but will not rank for any dividends or other distributions payable by reference to a record date preceding the date of such allotment.
Ordinary Shares transferred on the exercise of an option will be transferred without the benefit of any rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares by reference to a record date preceding the date of that exercise.
For so long as the Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the Official List the Company will use its best endeavours to procure that the Ordinary Shares issued following exercise of any options are admitted to the Official List as soon as practicable after allotment.
Benefits obtained under the CSOP will not be pensionable.
Babcock International Group PLC 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notice of meeting continued Administration & amendment The CSOP will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will be able to amend the provisions of the CSOP.
However, no amendment to a key feature of the CSOP shall have effect until HMRC has approved such amendment.
Furthermore, the rules of the CSOP which relate to: the persons to whom Ordinary Shares are provided under the CSOP: the limits on the number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued under the CSOP: the maximum entitlement of any option holder: the basis for determining an option holders entitlement to Ordinary Shares or options: and the basis for determining the adjustment of any option granted under the CSOP following any increase or variation in the share capital of the Company will not be capable of being amended by the board to the advantage of any option holder or potential option holder without the prior approval of the Company in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the CSOP, to take account of any change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for option holders or any Group company.
The Remuneration Committee will have the discretion, in respect of employees of the Group who are resident for tax purposes outside the UK, to amend or alter the provisions of any option to take account of overseas taxation or securities law.
However, the Remuneration Committee will not be able to make any such amendment or alteration without the consent of HMRC if required and or if this would result in an option being made upon terms commercially more favourable than the terms upon which an option could have been granted if such person was tax resident in the UK.
Adjustment of options In the event of any increase or variation in the share capital of the Company, the Remuneration Committee may, with the consent of any EBT trustee if applicable, make such adjustment as it deems appropriate to the number of Ordinary Shares subject to each option and or the nominal value of the Ordinary Shares subject to options.
Termination The CSOP may be terminated at any time by resolution of the board of the Company and will in any event terminate on the tenth anniversary of its adoption so that no further options can be granted under the CSOP after termination.
Termination will not affect the outstanding rights of existing option holders.
