qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 01:16 Page 228 | | 228 228 GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements The Business Review section of this report, comprising the Business, or predict.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Strategy, Financial and Operating Reviews, has been prepared in performance.
Our actual results of operations, financial condition, accordance with the Accounting Standards Board Reporting Statement liquidity, dividend policy and the development of the industries in which on Operating and Financial Review January 2006, as applicable best we operate may differ materially from the impression created by the practice guidance for UK companies required to prepare a business forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report and factors that could cause these differences include, but are not limited to, performance by business chapters, in particular the Strategy section, general economic and business conditions, commodity price volatility, include an analysis of the main trends and factors likely to affect the industry trends, competition, changes in government and other regulation, future development, performance and position of the business.
This including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation, includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking labour relations and work stoppages, changes in political and economic statements.
We may also make written and oral forward-looking stability, currency uctuations, our ability to integrate new businesses and statements in: recover our reserves or develop new reserves and changes in business strategy or development plans and other risks, including those described our interim reports, our summary financial statements to shareholders, in the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
Even if the results our offering circulars and our prospectuses: of operations, financial condition, liquidity and dividend policy and the our press releases and other written materials: and development of the industries in which we operate are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, those oral statements made by our ofcers, directors or employees to third results or developments may not be indicative of our results or parties, including to financial analysts.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made.
forward-looking terminology, including the words: believes, estimates, Other than in accordance with our legal or regulatory obligations anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, including under the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other Rules, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise publicly variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this future events or otherwise.
Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs The Directors Report in this Annual Report has been prepared for the or current expectations and those of our ofcers, directors and employees members of the Company and its purpose is to assist shareholders to concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial assess the Companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and dividend policy and succeed and for no other purpose.
The Company, its directors, employees, the industries in which we operate.
agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility for any other By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties purpose or to any other person to whom this Annual Report is shown because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or into whose access it may come and any such responsibility or liability or may not occur in the future and may be beyond our ability to control is expressly disclaimed.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 10 00:19 Page b Shareholder information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTACTS Head ofce Registrars and transfer ofce Xstrata plc Enquiries Bahnhofstrasse 2 Computershare Investor Services PLC Bahnhofstrasse 2 Claire Divver PO Box 102 The Pavilions PO Box 102 Tel: 44 20 7968 2871 6301 Zug Bridgwater Road 6301 Zug cdivver@xstrata.
com Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Registered ofce Brigitte Mattenberger Telephone helpline: 44 0 870 4th oor Panton House bmattenberger@xstrata.
com United Kingdom Annual General Meeting 5 May 2010 Registered number Half-yearly results 4345939 3 August 2010 s XSTRATA ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The 2009 Annual Report is available in an interactive online version at Xstrata produces a separate, comprehensive Sustainability Report, which is www.
com annualreport 2009 available to download from our website at www.
com sustainability Visit our corporate website: www.
com Visit our online sustainability section: www.
com sustainability PRODUCTION OF THIS REPORT Design and production: Black Sun plc, London UK This Report is printed on Heaven 42 paper.
This paper has been independently certied as meeting the standards of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC, and was manufactured at a mill that is certied to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral Photography: Andrew Craig and Graeme Williams
