138 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and postretirement medical plans The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue in Note 35 outlines the significant assumptions made when accounting for accordance with a directors resolution on 2 March 2010.
The ultimate share-based payments, defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement parent entity of the Group, Xstrata plc, is a publicly traded limited company medical plans.
Changes to these assumptions may alter the resulting incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its accounting and ultimately the amount charged to the income statement.
ordinary shares are traded on the London and Swiss stock exchanges.
Changes in accounting policies, new standards and The principal activities of the Group are described in note 9. interpretations not applied 2.
Statement of compliance Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated The consolidated financial statements of Xstrata plc and its subsidiaries the financial statements are consistent with those followed in the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year Standards IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ended 31 December 2008, except for the adoption of the following new IASB and interpretations of the International Financial Reporting standards and interpretations: Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as adopted by the European Union, IFRS 2 Revised Share-Based Payments effective for the Groups reporting for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Group adopted IFRS 2 Revised Share-Based Payments which 3.
Basis of preparation clarifies the definition of a vesting condition and prescribes the treatment for an award that is effectively cancelled because a nonThe consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which vesting condition is not met.
The adoption of this amendment has had is the parents functional and presentation currency, and all values are no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
rounded to the nearest million except where otherwise indicated.
IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements The accounting policies in note 6 have been applied in preparing the The Group adopted IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial consolidated financial statements.
Statements which separates owner and non-owner transactions in equity and introduces a statement of comprehensive income.
Significant accounting estimates adoption of this amendment has had no impact on Group earnings or equity in the current or prior years.
The preparation of these financial statements requires management to IFRS 8 Operating Segments make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported The Group adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments which requires amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure disclosure of certain information relating to the Groups operating of contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial statements.
Actual segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business outcomes could differ from these estimates.
and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Group.
The The below are the most critical judgements, estimates and assumptions: operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the business segments previously reported under IAS 14 and the Estimated recoverable reserves and resources adoption of this amendment has had no impact on Group earnings Estimated recoverable reserves and resources are used to determine the or equity in the current or prior years.
depreciation of mine production assets, in accounting for deferred stripping costs and in performing impairment testing.
Estimates are IAS 32 Revised Financial Instruments: Presentation prepared by appropriately qualified persons, but will be impacted by The Group early adopted IAS 32 Revised Financial Instruments: forecast commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs and Presentation which specifies that a pro rata rights issue to all of an recoveries amongst other factors.
Changes in assumptions will impact the entitys existing shareholders on the exercise of which the entity will carrying value of assets and depreciation and impairment charges receive a fixed amount of cash for a fixed number of the entitys own recorded in the income statement.
equity instruments is classified as an equity instrument regardless of the currency in which the exercise price is denominated.
As a result of early Environmental rehabilitation costs adopting and retrospectively applying this standard, the Group has The provisions for rehabilitation costs are based on estimated future costs reversed the Rights Issue option loss of US$1.2 billion that was using information available at the balance sheet date.
To the extent the recognised in the 30 June 2009 interim financial statements.
actual costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded and the income statement may be impacted refer to note 32.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended Impairment testing The Group early adopted IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and Note 15 outlines the significant judgements and assumptions made in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amended performing impairment testing of non-current assets.
Changes in these effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 3R introduces significant changes assumptions may alter the results of impairment testing, impairment to business combinations occurring after this date.
These changes affect charges recorded in the income statement and the resulting carrying the valuation of non-controlling interests, accounting for acquisition values of assets.
costs, recognition and measurement of contingent consideration and accounting for business combinations achieved in stages.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 139 IAS 27 As amended in 2008 requires that the change in the ownership Interests in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties interest of a subsidiary without the loss of control is accounted for as a transaction with owners in their capacity as owners with no income undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The financial statements of the joint ventures are generally prepared for the same statement impacts and also clarifies the treatment when a parent loses control of a subsidiary.
As a consequence of adopting IAS 27 reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies as amended in 2008, the Group has also implemented early the consequential revisions to IAS 31 that affect the treatment of an that may exist in the underlying records of the joint venture.
investment on the loss of joint control.
Jointly controlled operations A jointly controlled operation involves the use of assets and other IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation resources of the Group and other venturers rather than the establishment IFRIC 16 provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risks that of a corporation, partnership or other entity.
qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instrument can be held in the hedge of The Group accounts for the assets it controls and the liabilities it incurs, a net investment and how the Group should determine the amount of the expenses it incurs and the share of income that it earns from the sale the foreign currency gain or loss, relating to both the net investment of goods or services by the joint venture.
and the hedging instrument, to be recycled upon disposal of the Jointly controlled assets net investment.
A jointly controlled asset involves joint control and ownership by the New standards and interpretations not applied Group and other venturers of assets contributed to or acquired for the The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and purpose of the joint venture, without the formation of a corporation, interpretations with effective dates that are subsequent to 1 January partnership or other entity.
Consequently, these pronouncements will impact the Groups The Group accounts for its share of the jointly controlled assets, any financial statements in future periods.
liabilities it has incurred, its share of any liabilities jointly incurred with Effective date other ventures, income from the sale or use of its share of the joint IAS 39 Recognition and Measurement: 1 July 2009 Eligible Hedged Items ventures output, together with its share of the expenses incurred by IAS 39 Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 1 July 2009 the joint venture, and any expenses it incurs in relation to its interest 39: Embedded Derivatives in the joint venture.
IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets 1 July 2009 To Owners Jointly controlled entities A jointly controlled entity involves the establishment of a corporation, The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and partnership or other legal entity in which the Group has an interest along interpretations on their effective dates will have a material impact on the with other venturers.
Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
The Group recognises its interest in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation, whereby the Groups share of 6.
Principal accounting policies each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture Basis of consolidation are combined with the similar items, line by line, in its consolidated The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Xstrata financial statements.
plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
All inter-entity When the Group contributes or sells assets to a joint venture, any gain balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising or loss from the transaction is recognised based on the substance of the from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
When the Group has transferred the risk and rewards of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to ownership to the joint venture, the Group only recognises the portion the date on which control passes.
Control is achieved where the Group of the gain or loss attributable to the other venturers, unless the loss is has the power to govern the financial and operating policy of an entity so reflective of an impairment, in which case the loss is recognised in full.
as to obtain benefits from its activities.
This occurs when the Group has When the Group purchases assets from the joint venture, it does not more than 50% voting power through ownership or agreements, except recognise its share of the profits of the joint venture from the transaction where minority rights are such that a minority shareholder is able to until it resells the assets to an independent party.
Losses are accounted prevent the Group from exercising control.
In addition, control may exist for in a similar manner unless they represent an impairment loss, in which without having more than 50% voting power through ownership or case they are recognised immediately.
agreements, or in the circumstances of enhanced minority rights, as a consequence of fide facto control.
fide facto control is control without the Joint ventures are accounted for in the manner outlined above, until the legal right to exercise unilateral control, and involves decision-making date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
ability that is not shared with others and the ability to give directions with Investments in associates respect to the operating and financial policies of the entity concerned.
Entities in which the Group has significant influence and which are Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the financial statements neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are associates, and are accounted include the results for the part of the reporting period during which for using the equity method of accounting.
Subsidiaries use the same reporting period and same accounting policies as Xstrata plc.
Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of acquisition at the fair 140 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued When a subsidiary is acquired in a number of stages, the cost of each stage is compared with the fair value of the identifiable net assets at the value of the purchase consideration where this is higher than the fair date of that purchase.
Any excess is treated as goodwill, or any discount value of the identifiable net assets acquired, or, if the purchase is immediately recognised in the income statement.
On the date control consideration is less than the fair value of the identifiable net assets is obtained, the identifiable net assets are recognised in the Group acquired, at the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
In this balance sheet at fair value and the difference between the fair value way goodwill is included within the associate balance when the fair value recognised and the value on the date of the purchase is recognised in of the investment is less than the consideration paid.
The carrying amount the Income statement.
is adjusted by the Groups share of the post acquisition profit or loss, Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests depreciation, amortisation or impairment arising from fair value in associates.
Any goodwill arising on such purchases is included within adjustments made at date of acquisition and certain inter-entity the carrying amount of the investment in the associates, but not transactions together with a reduction for any dividends received or thereafter amortised.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair receivable from the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of liabilities over the cost of the investment is included in income in the such changes in equity.
The financial statements of the associates are generally prepared for the Foreign currencies same reporting period as the Group, using consistent accounting policies.
Financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, are Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies maintained in their functional currencies and converted to US dollars for that may exist in the underlying records of the associate.
Where an consolidation of the Group results.
The functional currency of each entity associate prepares its financial statements using a different reporting is determined after consideration of the primary economic environment period, an estimate of the Groups share of the associates profit or loss is of the entity.
made based on the most reliable information available.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group rates ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities and its associates.
denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at year-end exchange rates.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the date except for differences arising on rehabilitation provisions which are on which it ceases to have significant influence, and from that date, capitalised for operating mines.
Non-monetary assets measured at accounts for the investment in accordance with IAS 39 with its initial historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange cost being the carrying amount of the associate at that date, provided rates at the date of the initial transactions.
Where non-monetary assets the investment does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
are measured at fair value in a foreign currency, they are translated at the The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates results exchange rates when the fair value was determined.
Where the exchange after tax and the Groups statement of recognised income and expense difference relates to an item which has been recorded in equity, the includes any amounts recognised by associates outside of the income related exchange difference is also recorded in equity.
On consolidation of foreign operations into US dollars, income statement Business combinations items are translated at weighted average rates of exchange where this is On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the acquisition method of accounting a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate at the dates of the is used, whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the transactions.
Balance sheet items are translated at closing exchange rates.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net Exchange differences on the re-translation of the investments in foreign assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Those mining subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at closing rates, together with rights, mineral reserves and resources that are able to be reliably valued differences between income statements translated at average and at are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other closing rates, are recorded in a separate component of equity.
Exchange potential reserves, resources and mineral rights, for which in the differences relating to quasi equity inter-company loan balances with the Directors opinion, values cannot be reliably determined, are not foreign operations which form part of the net investment in the foreign recognised.
operation are also recognised in this component of equity.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to the recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is Groups share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as recognised in the income statement.
purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or where there is an indication of impairment.
If the Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings to finance net fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable net assets investments and tax charges credits attributable to those exchange exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is immediately recognised differences are also recorded in a separate component of equity to in the income statement.
the extent that the hedge is effective.
Upon full or partial disposal or repayment of the net investment in the foreign operation including Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net loans that form part of the net investment, the cumulative amount assets in subsidiaries that are not held by the Group and are presented of the exchange differences is recognised in the income statement in equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the parents when the gain or loss on disposal or the loan repayment is recognised.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 141 The following exchange rates to the US dollar US$ have been applied: with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items include, but are not limited to, impairment charges, Average Average 31 December 12 months 31 December 12 months liability fair value adjustments, profits and losses on the sale of 2009 2009 2008 2008 investments, profits and losses from the sale of operations, restructuring Argentine pesos and closure costs, inventory write-downs, foreign currency gains and US$:ARS 3.7990 3.7279 3.4538 3.1631 losses on borrowings, loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing Australian dollars AUD:US$ 0.8974 0.7934 0.7048 0.8522 and the related tax impacts of these items.
Canadian dollars Property, plant and equipment US$:CAD 1.0533 1.1405 1.2205 1.0670 Land and buildings, plant and equipment Chilean pesos US$:CLP 507.45 558.62 637.25 523.87 On initial acquisition, land and buildings and plant and equipment are Colombian pesos valued at cost, being the purchase price and the directly attributable costs US$:COP 2,043.00 2,153.20 2,248.70 1,967.83 of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the location Euros and condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the EUR:US$ 1.4327 1.3949 1.3974 1.4712 manner intended by management.
Great Britain pounds GBP:US$ 1.6173 1.5669 1.4628 1.8525 In subsequent periods, buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost Peruvian nuevo sol less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, whilst land US$:PEN 2.8870 3.0098 3.1345 2.9237 is stated at cost less any impairment in value and is not depreciated.
South African rand US$:ZAR 7.3890 8.4057 9.3212 8.2695 Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual Swiss francs US$:CHF 1.0356 1.0850 1.0695 1.0824 values of buildings, plant and equipment based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on the following bases: Revenue Mine production assets are depreciated using a unit of production Revenue associated with the sale of commodities is recognised when method based on estimated economically recoverable reserves, which all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asset sold are results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of reserves.
transferred to the customer, usually when insurance risk has passed to Buildings, plant and equipment unrelated to production are depreciated the customer and the commodity has been delivered to the shipping using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives.
At this point the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective Where parts of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is control over the commodities and the costs incurred, or to be incurred, in calculated on each separate part.
Each asset or parts estimated useful life respect of the sale can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised, at has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present fair value of the consideration receivable, to the extent that it is probable assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be at which the item is located, and to possible future variations in those reliably measured.
Sales revenue is recognised at the fair value of assessments.
Estimates of remaining useful lives and residual values are consideration received, which in most cases is invoiced amounts, with reviewed annually.
Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
most sales being priced free on board FOB, free on rail FOR or cost, The expected useful lives are as follows: insurance and freight CIF.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are also included in sales revenue.
Revenue excludes treatment and refining Buildings 15 40 years charges unless payment of these amounts can be enforced by the Group Plant and equipment 4 30 years at the time of the sale.
The net carrying amounts of land, buildings and plant and equipment are For some commodities the sales price is determined provisionally at the reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit date of sale, with the final price determined at a mutually agreed date, level when events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying generally at a quoted market price at that time.
This contractual feature amounts may not be recoverable.
To the extent that these values exceed has the character of a commodity derivative.
As a result, the invoice price their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the on these sales are marked-to-market at balance sheet date based on the financial year in which this is determined.
forward metal prices for the relevant quotational period.
This ensures that Expenditure on major maintenance or repairs includes the cost of the revenue is recorded at the fair value of consideration to be received.
All replacement of parts of assets and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part mark-to-market adjustments are recorded in sales revenue.
of an asset is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits Interest income associated with the item will be available to the Group, the expenditure Interest income is recognised as earned on an accruals basis using the is capitalised and the carrying amount of the item replaced derecognised.
effective interest method in the income statement.
Similarly, overhaul costs associated with major maintenance are capitalised and depreciated over their useful lives where it is probable Exceptional items that future economic benefits will be available and any remaining carrying Exceptional items represent significant items of income and expense amounts of the cost of previous overhauls are derecognised.
All other which due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events costs are expensed as incurred.
giving rise to them, are presented separately on the face of the income statement to give a better understanding to shareholders of the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison 142 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued recoverable amounts, that excess is fully provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is disposed of, it is Capital work in progress derecognised and the difference between its carrying value and net sales Assets in the course of construction are capitalised in the capital work in proceeds is disclosed as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred Any items of property, plant or equipment that cease to have future to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
economic benefits are derecognised with any gain or loss included in the The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price income statement in the financial year in which the item is derecognised.
and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition Exploration and evaluation expenditure for its intended use.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the Costs associated with a start-up period are capitalised where the asset is exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a and includes costs such as exploratory drilling and sample testing and the commissioning period.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from the purchase Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
of another mining company, is carried forward as an asset provided The net carrying amounts of capital work in progress at each mine that one of the following conditions is met: property are reviewed for impairment either individually or at the cashgenerating unit level when events and changes in circumstances indicate such costs are expected to be recouped in full through successful that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To the extent that development and exploration of the area of interest or alternatively, these values exceed their recoverable amounts, that excess is fully by its sale: or provided against in the financial year in which this is determined.
exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have not yet Leasing and hire purchase commitments reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is or otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active and based in the substance of the arrangement at inception date, including significant operations in relation to the area are continuing, or planned whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use for the future.
of a specific asset or assets or whether the arrangement conveys a Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised as assets at right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business specific circumstances.
Assets held under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and An impairment review is performed, either individually or at the cashrewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire generating unit level, when there are indicators that the carrying amount purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of of the assets may exceed their recoverable amounts.
To the extent that the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum this occurs, the excess is fully provided against, in the financial year in lease payments during the lease term calculated using the interest rate which this is determined.
Exploration and evaluation assets are reassessed implicit in the lease agreement.
These amounts are determined at the on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward provided that at inception of the lease and are depreciated over the shorter of their least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
estimated useful lives or lease term.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets or capital liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease or work in progress once the work completed to date supports the hire purchase obligations are charged to the income statement over future development of the property and such development receives the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a appropriate approvals.
constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Mineral properties and mine development expenditure Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have The cost of acquiring mineral reserves and mineral resources is capitalised not passed to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Rentals on the balance sheet as incurred.
Capitalised costs development payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement expenditure include costs associated with a start-up period where the on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
asset is available for use but incapable of operating at normal levels without a commissioning period.
Deferred stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and Mineral reserves and capitalised mine development expenditure are, upon other waste in order to access the ore body.
During the pre-production commencement of production, depreciated using a unit of production phase, these costs are capitalised as part of the cost of the mine property method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to and depreciated based on the mines strip ratio refer below.
which they relate or are written off if the property is abandoned.
The net carrying amounts of mineral reserves and resources and capitalised mine The costs of removal of the waste material during a mine's production development expenditure at each mine property are reviewed for phase are deferred, where they give rise to future benefits.
The deferral impairment either individually or at the cash-generating unit level when of these costs, and subsequent charges to the income statement are events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount determined with reference to the mine's strip ratio.
To the extent that these values exceed their Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 143 The mines strip ratio represents the ratio of the estimated total volume Long-term feed contract A long-term feed contract is being amortised over the remaining of waste, to the estimated total quantity of economically recoverable ore, over the life of the mine.
These costs are deferred where the actual contract term.
stripping ratios are higher than the average life of mine strip ratio.
The Impairment of assets costs charged to the income statement are based on application of the The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed for impairment mines strip ratio to the quantity of ore mined in the period.
Where the whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying ore is expected to be evenly distributed, waste removal is expensed amounts may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, a as incurred.
review is undertaken to determine whether the carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is Biological assets Biological assets, being cattle, are carried at their fair value less estimated determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-inuse.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
where assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
Intangible assets Purchased intangible assets are recorded at the cost of acquisition Where a cash-generating unit, or group of cash-generating units, has including expenses incidental to the acquisition, less accumulated goodwill allocated to it, or includes intangible assets which are either not amortisation and any impairment in value.
available for use or which have an indefinite useful life and which can only be tested as part of a cash-generating unit, an impairment test is Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are performed at least annually or whenever there is an indication that the capitalised separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises carrying amounts of such assets may be impaired.
from contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement to reflect the asset Internally generated goodwill is not recognised.
In assessing the value in use, the relevant future Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except cash flows expected to arise from the continuing use of such assets goodwill and those intangible assets which the Directors regard as having and from their disposal are discounted to their present value using a indefinite useful lives, which are not amortised but are reviewed for market-determined pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market impairment at least annually, and whenever events or circumstances assessments of the time value of money and asset-specific risks for which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible the cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
Fair value less costs to assets are regarded as having an indefinite life when, based on an sell is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale analysis of all the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the of the asset in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows.
For mining assets this would generally be determined analyses are performed annually.
Estimated useful lives are determined as based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows arising the period over which the Group expects to use the asset or the number from the continued use and eventual disposal of the asset.
In assessing of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset these cash flows and discounting them to present value, assumptions by the Group and for which the Group retains control of access to used are those that an independent market participant would those benefits.
For intangible assets with a finite useful life, the amortisation method and An impairment loss is reversed in the income statement if there is a period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount is Where an intangible asset is disposed of, it is derecognised and the increased to the recoverable amount but not beyond the carrying amount difference between its carrying value and the net sales proceeds is net of depreciation or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior reported as a profit or loss on disposal in the income statement in the impairment loss had not been recognised.
After such a reversal the financial year the disposal occurs.
depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis Coal export rights over its remaining useful life.
Goodwill impairments are not reversed.
Coal export rights are carried at cost and amortised using a units-ofproduction method based on the reserves that exist in the location that Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations has access to such rights.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their Software and technology patents carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than Software and technology patents are carried at cost and amortised over through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the a period of 3 years and 20 years respectively.
sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for Hydroelectricity rights immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must be committed to Hydroelectricity rights acquired will be amortised over the expected life the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed of the operation following the completion of construction.
sale within one year of the date of classification.
144 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are carried at the fixed maturity are classified as held-to-maturity when the Group has the lower of the carrying amount prior to being classified as held for sale, positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
Investments intended and the fair value less costs to sell.
A non-current asset is not depreciated to be held for an undefined period are not included in this classification.
while classified as held for sale.
Other long-term investments that are intended to be held-to-maturity, such as bonds, are measured at amortised cost.
This cost is computed as A non-current asset held for sale is presented separately in the balance the amount initially recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any sale are presented separately as one line in the assets and liabilities difference between the initially recognised amount and the maturity sections on the face of the balance sheet.
This calculation includes all fees paid or received between parties Discontinued operations to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, A discontinued operation is a component of an entity, whose operations transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
For investments and cash flows are clearly distinguished both operationally and for carried at amortised cost, gains and losses are recognised in income when financial reporting purposes from the rest of the entity, that has been the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the disposed of or classified as held for sale.
To be classified as a discontinued amortisation process.
operation, one of the following criteria must be met: Loans and receivables the operation must represent a separate major line of business or Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or geographical area of operations: or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value the operation must be part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are the operation must be a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or for resale.
impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at their original invoiced value, Where the operation is discontinued at the balance sheet date, the results adjusted for, where appropriate, provisional pricing or their recoverable are presented in one line on the face of the income statement, and prior amount if this differs from the invoiced amount.
Where the time value period results are represented as discontinued.
of money is material, receivables are discounted and are carried at their Financial instruments present value.
A provision is made where the estimated recoverable Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value amount is lower than the carrying amount.
through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments Available-for-sale financial assets or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
that are designated as available-for-sale, or are not classified in any of the Where as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is no longer other three stated categories.
After initial recognition available-for-sale appropriate to classify an investment as held to maturity, the investment financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being is reclassified into the available-for-sale category.
When financial assets recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value on the trade date, derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is directly attributable transaction costs.
All financial liabilities are initially included in the income statement.
recognised at their fair value.
Subsequently, all financial liabilities with the exception of derivatives are carried at amortised cost.
Listed share investments are carried at fair value based on stock exchange quoted prices at the balance sheet date.
Unlisted shares are carried at fair The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative value where it can be reliably obtained, otherwise they are stated at cost when the Group becomes a party to the contract.
Embedded derivatives less any impairment.
are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit and loss and when the economic characteristics and risks Fair values are not closely related to the host contract.
The fair value of quoted financial assets is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Financial assets classified as held for trading are included in the category These include recent arms length market transactions: reference to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are current market value of another instrument which is substantially the classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as and are effective hedging instruments.
Gains or Derivative financial instruments are valued using applicable valuation losses on these items are recognised in income.
techniques such as those outlined above.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 145 fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities Assets carried at cost Financial assets If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted A financial asset is fide-recognised when: equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, the amount of the loss is measured as the the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a of return for a similar financial asset.
third party under a pass-through arrangement: or Available-for-sale financial assets the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, an amount comprising and either has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
recognised in profit or loss, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as Where the Group has transferred its right to receive cash flows from an available-for-sale are not recognised in profit.
Reversals of impairment asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks losses on debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss, if the and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, it continues increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Rehabilitation trust fund Financial liabilities Investments in the rehabilitation trust funds are measured at fair value A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the liability based on the market price of investments held by the trust.
In accordance is discharged or cancelled or expires.
with IFRIC 5, movements in the fair value are recognised in the income Gains and losses on fide-recognition are recognised within finance income statement.
Such amounts relate to trusts in South Africa which receive and finance costs respectively.
cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new swaps, forward currency and commodity contracts to hedge its risks associated with interest rate, foreign currency and commodity price liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into Impairment of financial assets and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is impaired.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives that If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to profit or loss for receivables and held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost the year.
has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been by reference to current forward exchange rates and prices for contracts incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised instruments.
Objective evidence of impairment of loans and For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: receivables exists if the counter-party is experiencing significant financial difficulty, there is a breach of contract, concessions are granted to the fair value hedges: counter party that would not normally be granted or it is probable that cash flow hedges: or the counter party will enter into bankruptcy or a financial reorganisation.
hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
146 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares held by the Employee Share Hedges that are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting Ownership Plan ESOP trust are deducted from equity.
Where they are changes in fair value or cash flows are assessed on an ongoing basis to issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the income determine if they actually have been highly effective throughout the statement.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfer financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
to employees are recognised in equity.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted Own shares purchased under the Equity Capital Management Program for as follows: ECMP are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of such Fair value hedges shares.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Fair value hedges are hedges of the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that could affect profit or loss.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for gains and losses Loans are recognised at inception at the fair value of proceeds received, net attributable to the risk being hedged, the derivative is re-measured at fair of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently they are measured value and gains and losses from both are taken to profit or loss.
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
For fair value hedges relating to items carried at amortised cost, the adjustment to carrying value is amortised through profit or loss over the Convertible borrowings remaining term to maturity.
Any adjustment to the carrying amount of On issue of a convertible borrowing, the fair value of the liability a hedged financial instrument for which the effective interest method component is determined by discounting the contractual future cash is used is amortised to profit or loss.
flows using a market rate for a non-convertible instrument with similar terms.
This value is carried as a liability on the amortised cost basis until Amortisation begins when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted for extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the changes in its fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
proceeds are allocated to a separate component of equity, net of issue The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging costs, which remains constant in subsequent periods.
Issue costs are instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no apportioned between the liability and equity components based on longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes their respective carrying amounts when the instrument was issued.
On conversion, the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss Cash flow hedges is recognised in the profit or loss.
Where the convertible borrowing is Cash flow hedges are a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity or loss.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is relating to the liability element in profit or loss.
recognised in profit or loss.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
Where the hedged item is be payable on redemption.
the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity Inventories are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
determined on a weighted average basis or using a first-in-first-out basis If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts and includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business including previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss.
If the direct material and direct labour costs and an allocation of production hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without overheads, depreciation and amortisation and other costs, based on replacement or roll-over, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, normal production capacity, incurred in bringing each product to its amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the present location and condition.
Cost of inventories includes the transfers forecast transaction occurs.
If the related transaction is not expected from equity of gains and losses on qualifying cash flow hedges in respect to occur, the amount is taken to profit or loss.
of the purchase of materials.
Inventories are categorised, as follows: Hedges of a net investment Raw materials and consumables: materials, goods or supplies including Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of energy sources to be either directly or indirectly consumed in the a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the net investment, are production process: accounted for in a way similar to cash flow hedges.
Gains or losses on Work in progress: Items stored in an intermediate state that have not the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge yet passed through all the stages of production: and are recognised directly in equity while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the Finished goods: products and materials that have passed all stages foreign operation, the cumulative value of any such gains or losses of the production process.
recognised directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 147 Net realisable value represents estimated selling price in the ordinary Other provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
legal or constructive, as result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources that can be reliably estimated will be required Cash and cash equivalents to settle the obligation.
Where the effect is material, the provision is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash in hand and discounted to net present value using an appropriate current marketshort-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is included For the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include certain in finance costs.
bank overdrafts where the facility forms part of the working capital cash Taxation management activities.
Current tax Government grants Current tax for each taxable entity in the Group is based on the local Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance taxable income at the local statutory tax rate enacted or substantively that the grant will be received and all the attaching conditions will be enacted at the balance sheet date and includes adjustments to tax complied with.
Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
credited to the carrying amount of the related asset and are released to Deferred tax the income statement over the expected useful lives of the relevant Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method in respect of assets.
Grants which are not associated with an asset are credited to all temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities, income so as to match them with the expense to which they relate.
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except as Environmental protection, rehabilitation and closure costs indicated below: Provision is made for close down, restoration and for environmental Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed differences, except: areas in the financial period when the related environmental disturbance where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition occurs, based on the estimated future costs using information available of goodwill, or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a at the balance sheet date.
The provision is discounted using a current transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the market-based pre-tax discount rate and the unwinding of the discount is transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or included in interest expense.
At the time of establishing the provision, a loss: and corresponding asset is capitalised, where it gives rise to a future benefit, in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments and depreciated over future production from the operations to which it relates.
in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes to obligations, and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the legislation or discount rates that impact estimated costs or lives of foreseeable future.
The cost of the related asset is adjusted for changes in the Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary provision resulting from changes in the estimated cash flows or discount rate and the adjusted cost of the asset is depreciated prospectively.
differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against Rehabilitation trust funds holding monies committed for use in satisfying which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of environmental obligations are included within Other financial assets on unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: the balance sheet.
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible Employee entitlements temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or Provisions are recognised for short-term employee entitlements, on an liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the undiscounted basis, for services rendered by employees that remain time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable unpaid at the balance sheet date.
profit or loss: and Provisions for long-term employee entitlements are measured using the in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable equivalent currency and term to the liabilities.
that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and In some of the Groups Australian operations, long service leave an taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences employee entitlement for which a provision is recorded is administered can be utilised.
The fund collects levies from employers The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each throughout the industry based on the expected cost of future liabilities.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable When the Group makes long service leave payments to employees that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the covered by the fund, it is reimbursed for the majority of the payment.
deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
To the extent that an asset not To reflect the expected reimbursement for future long service leave previously recognised fulfils the criteria for recognition, a deferred income payments from the fund, a receivable is recorded based on the tax asset is recorded.
present value of the future amounts expected to be reimbursed.
148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Principal accounting policies continued that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the were incurred with the share issue.
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively Share-based compensation plans enacted at the balance sheet date.
The Group makes share-based awards, including free shares and options, Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity to certain employees.
are recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Equity-settled awards Mining taxes and royalties are treated and disclosed as current and For equity-settled awards, the fair value is charged to the income statement deferred taxes if they have the characteristics of an income tax.
and credited to retained earnings, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, after adjusting for the estimated number of awards that are Pensions and other post-retirement obligations expected to vest taking into account the achievement of non-market-based The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are performance conditions.
The fair value of the equity-settled awards is charged to the income statement in the year to which they relate.
determined at the date of the grant.
In calculating fair value, no account is The Group contributes to separately administered defined benefit pension taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of plans.
the shares of the Company market conditions.
The fair value is determined by external experts using option pricing models.
At each balance sheet date For defined benefit funds, plan assets are measured at fair value, while prior to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current awards that are ultimately expected to vest is computed after adjusting rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency for non-market performance conditions.
The movement in cumulative and term to the plan liabilities.
The expected return on plan assets is expense is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding based on an assessment made at the beginning of the year of long-term entry within equity.
market returns on scheme assets, adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except In measuring its defined benefit liability past service costs are recognised for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period until the benefits are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition become vested.
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
following the introduction of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan, Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum the past service costs are recognised immediately.
When a settlement an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified over the eliminating all obligations for part or all of the benefits that have already original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured at the date of modification, over the remainder of the new measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or vesting period.
loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year award is recognised immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair is determined using the projected unit method and is recognised in the value of the awards at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted income statement.
The difference between the expected return on plan from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense assets and the unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities is recognised in the income statement.
However, if a new award is substituted for the in the income statement.
cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date Actuarial gains or losses are recognised directly in equity through the that it is granted, the new awards are treated as if they are a modification statement of recognised income and expenses.
The full pension surplus or of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
deficit is recorded in the balance sheet, with the exception of the impact Cash-settled awards of any recognition of past service costs.
Surpluses recorded are restricted For cash-settled awards, the fair value is re calculated at each balance to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and present value of date until the awards are settled based on the estimated number of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the awards that are expected to vest adjusting for market and non-market plan or reductions in future contributions.
During the vesting period, a liability is The Group also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain recognised representing the portion of the vesting period which has employees in Canada, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and the expired at the balance sheet date times the fair value of the awards at United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined that date.
After vesting, the full fair value of the unsettled awards at each benefit pension plans.
balance date is recognised as a liability.
Movements in the liability are Ordinary share capital recognised in the income statement.
The fair value is recalculated using Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds an option pricing model refer to note 35. received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 149 Borrowing costs Comparatives Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to disclose them on production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time the same basis as current period figures for the impact of the rights issue to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised and amortised bonus factor of 0.57 refer to note 12.
A non-current other financial over the useful life of the asset.
Borrowing costs related to the asset for US$213 million at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 establishment of a loan facility are capitalised and amortised over the life US$165million was classified as a current trade and other receivable in of the facility.
Other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the comparative periods.
The comparative balances have been adjusted to be financial period incurred.
disclosed on the same basis as the current period figure as this better reflects the nature and expected realisation of the asset.
Acquisitions Business combinations There were no business combinations in 2009.
Prior year business combinations Jubilee Mines NL On 29 October 2007 the Group made an AUD23 per share cash offer for shares in Jubilee Mines NL Jubilee.
On 31 January 2008, the Group declared the offer free from all conditions, and obtained control of Jubilee, following the receipt of acceptances in respect of 62% of Jubilees share capital.
By 16 February 2008 the Group held 97% of Jubilee and obtained the remaining 3% by 31 March 2008.
Under IFRS 3 the acquisition has been accounted for as one transaction occurring on 31 January 2008.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$2,875 million.
Jubilee, which was previously listed on the Australian stock exchange, owns and operates the Cosmos Nickel operation and is developing the Sinclair Nickel Project in Western Australia.
The final fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value at US$m reported adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 2,778 2,778 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 8 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 8 8 Trade and other receivables 15 15 2,810 2,810 Trade and other payables 44 44 Provisions 11 11 Deferred tax liabilities 51 51 Income tax payable 7 7 Net assets 2,697 2,697 Goodwill arising on acquisition 54 54 2,751 2,751 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 124 Cash paid 2,721 Acquisition costs 154 2,751 The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued Resource Pacific Holdings Limited On 5 December 2007 the Group announced an unconditional cash offer for shares in Resource Pacific Holdings Limited Resource Pacific of AUD2.85 per share and on 8 February 2008 the offer price was increased to AUD3.20 per share.
As at 20 February 2008, the Group held 67.5% and as at 23 April 2008, the Group held 89.8% of the total issued shares of Resource Pacific.
Under IFRS 3 the acquisition has been accounted for as one transaction occurring on 20 February 2008.
The total cost of the acquisition was US$910 million.
Resource Pacific was previously listed on the Australian stock exchange and owns the Newpac underground coal mine located in the Hunter Valley coalfields of New South Wales, Australia.
The final fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were as follows: Provisional fair value as previously Fair value Fair value at US$m reported adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 1,222 1,222 Other financial assets 11 11 Prepayments 1 1 Inventories 4 4 Trade and other receivables 12 12 1,250 1,250 Trade and other payables 75 75 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 14 Provisions 203 203 Deferred tax liabilities 153 153 Net assets 805 805 Non-controlling interests 80 80 Net attributable assets 725 725 Goodwill arising on acquisition 178 178 903 903 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 7 Cash paid 903 Acquisition costs 7 903 The goodwill balance is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired and their tax bases.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 151 Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture In March 2008, the Group restructured its Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture DTJV with BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA.
Under the terms of the restructuring, the Group acquired and managed the mining of reserves approximately equivalent to its 16% share of the DTJV, in an area contiguous to its 100% owned Arthur Taylor Colliery Open-cast Mine ATCOM operations.
The Group has also acquired approximately 16% of the major mobile equipment and has commenced separate mining operations from 1 December 2009.
The Group also entered into an interim coal offtake arrangement export and Eskom for 18 months with BECSA, effective from 1 January 2008 and a long-term supply arrangement for its share of the former DTJV's Duhva LT Eskom Coal Supply Agreement.
During the period the off-take agreement was extended and the Group received the final consideration payment of US$43 million on 1 December 2009.
Under IFRS this restructure has been accounted for by recognising the net assets obtained at fair value and derecognising the Groups interest in the DTJV.
This has resulted in a gain of US$213 million in 2008, calculated as follows: Fair value at US$m acquisition Fair value of net assets obtained Intangible assets 62 Property, plant and equipment 260 Trade and other receivables 78 400 Other financial liabilities 42 Deferred tax liabilities 72 Net assets obtained 286 Book value of net assets derecognised Property, plant and equipment 92 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables 4 Trade and other payables 17 Provisions 8 Net assets derecognised 73 Gain on transaction 213 Investment in associates Prior year investment in associates Lonmin plc In August 2008, the Group acquired 16,706,481 common shares of Lonmin plc Lonmin representing 10.7% of the common shares for consideration of US$1,084 million or GBP33 per share.
In October 2008, the Group acquired a further 22,232,940 common shares representing 14.2% of the common shares of Lonmin for a consideration of US$794 million or GBP20 per share, increasing the Groups holding to 24.9% at a cost of US$1,878 million.
This investment has been treated as an associate following the increase of the Groups holding in Lonmin to 24.9% refer to note 20.
152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Acquisitions continued Consolidated information The below information provides aggregate amounts of acquired assets and liabilities for all business combinations in 2009 and 2008: US$m 2009 2008 Intangible assets 62 Property, plant and equipment 4,260 Inventories 12 Trade and other receivables 105 Available-for-sale financial assets 8 Other financial assets 11 Prepayments 2 4,460 Trade and other payables 119 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 14 Derivative financial liabilities 42 Provisions 214 Deferred tax liabilities 276 Income tax payable 7 Net assets 3,788 Non-controlling interests 80 Net attributable assets 3,708 Goodwill 232 Net attributable assets including goodwill 3,940 Consideration: Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 131 Acquisition costs 161 Cash paid 3,624 Gain on restructure of DTJV 213 Net assets derecognised 73 3,940 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 153 8.
Discontinued operations and disposals Profit on loss of control of joint venture In October 2009, the Group entered into an irrevocable sale agreement to dispose of the Groups 70% interest in El Morro SCM, the holder of the El Morro copper-gold project in Chile, and associated rights and assets, to Barrick Gold Corporation or New Gold Incorporated upon the exercise of their right of first refusal for a total cash consideration of US$463 million refer to note 10.
As the Group recovered the carrying value of this asset through a sale transaction, the asset was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2009.
The sale proceeds were received from New Gold Incorporated on 17 February 2010.
The net balance of other held for sale assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009 was US$26 million.
Prior year disposals Resource Pacific Holdings Limited Following the acquisition of 89.8% of Resource Pacific in February 2008, 12% of the shares were sold in October 2008 at cost for US$122 million refer to note 7.
Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture In March 2008, the Group restructured its Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture DTJV with BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA resulting in the disposal of the Groups interest in the joint venture refer to note 7.
Consolidated information The below information is provided in aggregate for the 2009 and 2008 disposals: US$m 2009 2008 Property, plant and equipment 92 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables 4 98 Trade and other payables 17 Provisions 8 Deferred tax liabilities 34 Net assets 107 Non-controlling interests 94 Net attributable assets 201 Consideration: Cash received 128 Net assets obtained 286 Total consideration 414 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations and restructure of DTJV 213 154 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Segmental analysis Operating segments Xstratas business is organised into five global commodity businesses and a technology business, each of which operates with a high degree of autonomy.
Management monitors the operating results of each business as stand alone entities.
Segment performance is evaluated based on a number of measures including return on capital employed and operating profit before interest and tax.
Finance income and costs, and income tax are managed on a Group basis.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
Such unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents, shares held on market, deferred tax and hedging.
Includes corporate liabilities not directly attributable to business segments.
Such unallocated liabilities include interest-bearing loans and borrowings, deferred and current tax and mining tax.
158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Segmental analysis continued US$m 2009 2008 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Coal 424 459 Ferroalloys 102 95 Platinum 12 6 Copper 498 557 Nickel 93 267 Zinc Lead 133 278 Technology 2 3 Total sustaining 1,264 1,665 Unallocated 1 9 Total 1,265 1,674 Expansionary: Coal 687 745 Ferroalloys 1 13 Platinum 48 108 Copper 436 558 Iron Ore 23 Nickel 1,049 1,645 Zinc Lead 114 377 Technology 1 3 Total 2,359 3,449 Total capital expenditure: Coal 1,111 1,204 Ferroalloys 103 108 Platinum 60 114 Copper 934 1,115 Iron Ore 23 Nickel 1,142 1,912 Zinc Lead 247 655 Technology 3 6 Total 3,623 5,114 Unallocated 1 9 Total 3,624 5,123 The average number of employees, which includes Executive Directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: Coal 10,009 9,622 Ferroalloys 7,074 8,374 Platinum 1,125 1,102 Copper 11,319 11,131 Nickel 3,098 4,520 Zinc Lead 4,939 5,029 Technology 177 162 Total 37,741 39,940 Unallocated 104 109 Total 37,845 40,049 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Coal 6,940 8,680 Ferroalloys 4,046 4,869 Platinum 1,648 1,398 Copper 8,231 9,807 Nickel 2,501 2,148 Zinc Lead 785 1,316 Technology 24 69 Total 24,175 28,287 Unallocated 6 4 Total 24,181 28,291 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 159 Geographical segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008.
Revenue from one customer was greater than 10% of total revenues and arising from sales within a number of different operating and geographical segments refer to note 36.
Such unallocated assets include goodwill, cash and cash equivalents, shares held on market, deferred tax and hedging.
162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Segmental analysis continued US$m 2009 2008 Capital expenditure Sustaining: Africa 210 228 Americas North 169 348 Americas South 400 415 Australasia 443 600 Europe 42 74 Total sustaining 1,264 1,665 Unallocated 1 9 Total 1,265 1,674 Expansionary: Africa 364 392 Americas North 341 568 Americas South 265 460 Australasia 1,366 1,985 Europe 23 44 Total 2,359 3,449 Total capital expenditure: Africa 574 620 Americas North 510 916 Americas South 665 875 Australasia 1,809 2,585 Europe 65 118 Total 3,623 5,114 Unallocated 1 9 Total 3,624 5,123 The average number of employees, which includes Executive Directors and excludes contractors, during the year was as follows: Africa 12,851 14,082 Americas North 6,459 7,635 Americas South 7,641 7,852 Australasia 8,787 8,301 Europe 1,988 2,057 Middle East 15 13 Total 37,741 39,940 Unallocated 104 109 Total 37,845 40,049 The average number of contractors during the year was as follows: Africa 9,003 11,822 Americas North 1,502 1,871 Americas South 6,999 8,790 Australasia 6,441 5,516 Europe 229 287 Middle East 1 1 Total 24,175 28,287 Unallocated 6 4 Total 24,181 28,291 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 163 10.
Revenue and expenses Revenue and expenses US$m 2009 2008 Revenue sales of goods 22,732 27,952 Less cost of sales after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 18,039 19,347 Gross profit 4,693 8,605 Administrative expenses after depreciation and amortisation and impairment of assets 1,025 342 Inventory recognised as an expense 15,486 18,373 Operating lease rental expense minimum lease payments 53 49 Royalties paid 524 724 Research and development 2 6 Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation of owned assets 2,324 2,271 Depreciation of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 10 15 Total depreciation 2,334 2,286 Amortisation of intangible assets 85 110 Total depreciation and amortisation 2,419 2,396 Employee costs including Directors emoluments refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 127 for details Wages and salaries 2,248 2,573 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs refer to note 35 178 188 Social security and other benefits 128 150 Share-based compensation plans refer to note 35 334 6 Total employee costs 2,888 2,917 164 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Revenue and expenses continued Auditors remuneration US$m 2009 2008 a Auditors remuneration : Group auditors UK 1 1 Group auditors overseas 11 11 12 12 Amounts paid to auditors for other work: b Corporate finance transactions 3 3 c Taxation 3 3 d Other 1 2 7 8 Other audit firms Internal audit 1 1 e Other 6 4 7 5 a The Group audit fee includes US$45,000 2008 US$45,000 in respect of the parent company.
b 2009 amounts relate to the ongoing integration of previous acquisitions and other transactional support.
2008 amounts relate to the 2008 acquisitions, the ongoing integration of previous acquisitions and other transactional support.
c Includes corporate tax compliance and advisory services.
d Primarily relates to accounting advice and non-statutory assurance services.
e Includes tax advisory services, accounting assistance and acquisition due diligence.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 108 to 115 details the Group's policy with regard to the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors and the provision and approval of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
Finance income Bank and interest received from third parties 46 65 Call option premium 208 Dividends 1 2 Earnings from other financial assets 146 Hedge ineffectiveness 45 Other 6 80 Finance income before exceptional items 407 192 Foreign currency gains on bank loans 20 Gain on forward exchange contracts in respect of the rights issue refer to notes 12 and 26 47 Recycled gains from the foreign currency translation reserve 49 Exceptional finance income 47 69 Total finance income 454 261 These amounts relate to foreign currency gains and losses on non-US$ borrowings, predominantly Canadian dollar borrowings.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 165 Finance costs US$m 2009 2008 Amortisation of loan issue costs 5 9 Convertible borrowings amortised cost charge 4 4 Discount unwinding 100 109 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 6 6 Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 89 288 Interest on convertible borrowings and capital market notes 295 393 Interest on non-controlling interest loans 6 6 Interest on other financial liabilities 12 19 Interest on preference shares 15 Hedge ineffectiveness 17 Foreign currency losses on other loans 182 Other 38 3 Finance cost before exceptional items 754 852 Recycled losses from the foreign currency translation reserve 295 Loan issue costs written-off on facility refinancing 41 Exceptional finance cost 41 295 Total finance cost 795 1,147 These amounts mainly relate to foreign currency losses on US dollar inter-company loans in Australian entities.
Total interest income and expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets and liabilities not at fair value through the profit and loss are US$52 million 2008 US$145 million and US$446 million 2008 US$730 million respectively.
Exceptional items Impairment of assets 2009 The Group completed impairment testing for all its cash-generating units at 31 October 2009 and, for any assets where indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, performed updated testing at 31 December 2009.
As a result of this testing, impairments were identified at certain locations.
Nickel assets in Australia, Canada and Norway were impaired by US$2,110 million US$1,884 million after tax, including goodwill of US$710 million refer to note 15, following the restructuring of its business refer below.
Copper and zinc assets in Canada were impaired by US$273 million US$194 million after tax, following the announcement on 8 December 2009, that the Kidd Metallurgical site will permanently cease the operation of its copper and zinc metallurgical plants on 1 May 2010, as part of a plan to restructure its Canadian metallurgical operations refer below.
The Altonorte copper operations in Chile recognised impairment charges against its carrying value of property, plant and equipment assets of US$170 million US$141 million after tax due to the ongoing challenging market conditions for custom smelting operations.
2008 The Group completed impairment testing for all its cash-generating units at 31 December 2008 and identified that certain assets were impaired.
Ferroalloys minerals reserves were impaired by US$18 million.
The Falcondo ferronickel assets in the Dominican Republic were impaired by US$455 million US$315 million after tax, including goodwill of US$176 million, and the Sudbury nickel assets were impaired by US$20 million.
The impairment charge relating to Falcondo follows the decision to place the operation on prolonged care and maintenance.
The Kidd Creek copper operations in Canada were impaired by US$227 million US$151 million after tax following a re-evaluation of closure and rehabilitation costs.
The Altonorte and Lomas Bayas copper operations in Chile recognised impairment charges against their carrying value of property, plant and equipment assets of US$92 million US$76 million after tax and US$144 million US$122 million after tax, including goodwill of US$37 million respectively.
These impairment charges were mainly caused by weaker domestic demand for sulphuric acid and medium-term environmental capital expenditure requirements.
The Lennard Shelf zinc joint venture assets were impaired by US$18 million.
A net impairment charge of US$34 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following the changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date refer to notes 15 and 20.
Inventory write downs In 2008, Nickel inventory net realisable value write downs of US$93 million were recognised due to reduced prices at year end.
Liability fair value adjustment The Group is required to recognise a liability at fair value representing African Rainbow Minerals Limited ARM Coals interest in Xstratas South African coal operations.
During the year a gain of US$350 million has been recognised mainly due to the impact of decreasing coal prices and foreign exchange movements.
In 2008 a loss of US$194 million was recognised mainly due to the impact of increasing coal prices on the fair value of the liabilities to ARM and the black empowerment disposal to Kagiso of an interest in the Mototolo joint venture.
166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Revenue and expenses continued Profit on loss of control of joint venture In October 2009, the Group entered into an irrevocable sale agreement to dispose of the Groups 70% interest in El Morro SCM, the holder of the El Morro copper-gold project in Chile, and associated rights and assets, to Barrick Gold Corporation for a total cash consideration of US$463 million.
The agreement granted New Gold Incorporated a right of first refusal on the same terms as those granted to Barrick Gold Corporation.
The terms of the agreement were such that Xstrata was obliged to sell the assets to Barrick Gold Corporation or should it exercise its option New Gold Incorporated, without any change to the terms or cash consideration.
Xstrata lost joint control of El Morro upon entering into the sale agreement as a result of the contractual terms in the agreement which precluded Xstrata from making any decisions regarding El Morros financial and operating policies.
In January 2010 New Gold Incorporated notified the Group of its intention to exercise its right of first refusal to acquire Xstrata Coppers interest in the El Morro copper-gold and the sales proceeds were received on 17 February 2010.
The Group recognised a gain of US$194 million US$144 million after tax as a result of entering into the sale agreement and the resulting loss of joint control of the asset refer to note 8.
Profit on restructure of joint venture In 2008, a gain of US$213 million was recognised in relation to the restructure of the Groups interest in the Douglas Tavistock Joint Venture refer to note 7.
Restructuring and closure costs During 2009, restructuring and closure costs of US$156 million US$116 million after tax were recognised.
Xstrata Nickel recognised restructuring and closure costs of US$40 million which included the closure of high-cost, end-of-life mines in Sudbury, the suspension of the Montcalm operations, significant reductions in operational and corporate overheads and the deferral of the Fraser Morgan and Sinclair Underground growth projects.
Restructuring and closure costs of US$105 million were recognised in relation to the planned closure of the Kidd metallurgical plants, scheduled for 1 May 2010 mainly due to global smelting overcapacity, record low treatment and refining charges, increasing operating and capital costs to run and maintain the facilities and lower demand and sales prices for sulphuric acid.
Restructuring and closure costs of US$11 million were also incurred during the year in Ferroalloys.
During 2008, asset write downs and closure costs of US$125 million US$101 million after tax were recognised, including the closure of the Lennard Shelf zinc joint venture in Australia US$53 million, corporate office downsizing US$8 million, the suspension of operations at the Falcondo ferronickel operations in the Dominican Republic US$12 million and the closure of Craig and Thayer-Lindsley nickel mines US$52 million ahead of schedule to be replaced by the lower cost Nickel Rim South and Fraser Morgan mines in Canada.
Share of results from associates During 2009, an impairment charge of US$241 million 2008 US$34 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following changes in foreign exchange rates, operating costs, production and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date.
An amount of US$36 million was also recognised during 2009 in relation to the Groups share of the restructuring and closure costs, impairments and the loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of a rights issue recognised by Lonmin.
Income tax benefit The Group realised an exceptional tax benefit of US$324 million 2008 US$330 million primarily as a result of the impairment of assets, restructuring and closure costs and inventory write downs offset by the tax expense recognised on the loss of control of El Morro.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 167 11.
Income taxes Income tax charge Significant components of income tax expense for the years ended: US$m 2009 2008 Consolidated income statement Current tax: Based on taxable income of the current year 1,093 1,702 Prior year under over provision 72 29 Total current taxation charge for the year 1,021 1,731 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 549 398 Change in tax rates 9 37 Deferred tax expense arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset 149 Prior year under provision 57 8 Total deferred taxation charge for the year 352 427 Total taxation charge 669 1,304 UK taxation included above: Current tax 1 3 Deferred tax 3 Total taxation charge 1 6 Recognised directly in equity Deferred tax: Available-for-sale financial assets 9 4 Cash flow hedges 50 25 Other equity classified items 33 102 Total taxation charge credit reported in equity 92 81 The amounts above include the tax charge attributable to exceptional items.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to accounting profit before income tax at the weighted average statutory income tax rate to income tax expense at the Group average effective income tax rate for the years ended is as follows: Profit before taxation 1,530 5,168 Expected tax expense at average statutory income tax rate 22.3% 2008: 25.0% 341 1,292 Goodwill impairment 174 94 Mining and other taxes 4 59 Foreign currency gains and losses 14 143 Non-deductible expenses 38 88 Non-taxable capital gains and losses 48 Rebatable dividends received 1 1 Research and development allowances 20 20 Change in tax rates 9 37 Deferred tax expense arising from the write-down, or reversal of a previous write-down, of a deferred tax asset 149 Prior year under over provision 15 37 Other 2 5 Tax expense at average effective income tax rate 669 1,304 The above reconciling items are disclosed at the tax rates that apply in the country where they have arisen.
The average statutory income tax rate is the average of the standard income tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries as included in the consolidated accounts.
The change in the average statutory income tax rate is due to the variation in the weight of subsidiaries profits, by various changes in the enacted standard income tax rates and due to the acquisition of subsidiaries in countries with different tax rates.
Deferred income taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Income taxes continued Unrecognised tax losses unrecognised deductible temporary differences The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses that are available indefinitely of US$190 million 2008 US$14 million to carry forward against future taxable income of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as they may not be used to offset taxable profits elsewhere in the Group and they have arisen in subsidiaries that have been loss-making for some time.
There are no other deductible temporary differences that have not been recognised at balance sheet date.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 31 December 2009, US$nil 2008 US$nil was recognised deferred tax liability for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as: the Group has determined that undistributed profits of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the foreseeable future: the profits of the associates will not be distributed until they obtain the consent of the Group: and the investments are not held for resale and are expected to be recouped by continued use of these operations by the subsidiaries.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$nil 2008 US$nil.
There are no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders.
The deferred tax assets liabilities included in the balance sheet is as follows: US$m 2009 2008 Deferred tax assets: Tax losses 357 273 Employee provisions 74 Other provisions 321 201 Rehabilitation and closure 529 152 Trade and other payables receivables 206 Other equity-related items 49 Other 21 1,228 955 Deferred tax liabilities: Accelerated depreciation 6,074 5,767 Coal export rights 238 195 Other intangibles 96 97 Government grants 11 12 Deferred stripping 145 95 Trade and other payables receivables 113 Available-for-sale financial assets 34 25 Cash flow hedges 34 Other equity-related items 45 Other 5 6,790 6,196 5,562 5,241 Represented on the face of the balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 213 3 Deferred tax liabilities 5,775 5,244 5,562 5,241 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 169 Deferred tax assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at year-end exchange rates.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: US$m 2009 2008 Tax losses 49 64 Employee provisions 46 25 Other provisions 64 323 Rehabilitation and closure 210 37 Accelerated depreciation 280 385 Deferred stripping 4 39 Trade and other payables receivables 241 201 Other 40 77 352 427 The reconciliation of net deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Opening balance 5,241 5,940 Tax expense recognised in the Income Statement 352 427 Tax income expense recognised in equity 92 81 Acquisition and disposals 310 Translation adjustments 581 501 5,562 5,241 Tax audits The Group periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group recorded its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax laws.
Whilst management believes they have adequately provided for the probable outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved, or when the status of limitation lapses.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Earnings per share US$m 2009 2008 Profit before exceptional items attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 2,773 4,698 Exceptional items 2,112 1,103 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 661 3,595 Interest in respect of convertible borrowings 19 19 Profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for diluted earnings per share 680 3,614 Weighted average number of shares 000 excluding own shares: For basic earnings per share 2,646,871 1,693,504 Effect of dilution: Share-based payments 26,525 10,995 Convertible borrowings 25,680 25,680 For diluted earnings per share 2,699,076 1,730,179 Basic earnings per share US$ basic before exceptional items 1.05 2.77 exceptional items 0.80 0.65 0.25 2.12 Diluted earnings per share US$ before exceptional items 1.03 2.73 exceptional items 0.78 0.64 0.25 2.09 The 2008 comparative earnings per share have been restated after applying a rights issue bonus factor of 0.57.
On 18 March 2009, 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of 2 new ordinary shares at a price of GBP2.10 per share for every 1 existing ordinary share held.
The theoretical ex-rights price for an ordinary share was GBP3.41.
The 2008 comparative earnings per share have been restated after applying a factor of 0.57 in order to adjust for the bonus element of the rights issue and the 2009 figures have also been adjusted for this bonus element.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to the equity holders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the year, excluding own shares.
Adjustments are made before exceptional items and after exceptional items as outlined above, to present a meaningful basis for analysis.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for the potential dilution if Director and employee free shares and share options are exercised and the convertible borrowings are converted into ordinary shares.
An adjustment is also made to net profit for the interest in respect of the convertible borrowings.
Dividends paid and proposed US$m 2009 2008 Declared and paid during the year: Final dividend for 2008 nil cents per ordinary share 2007 19.2 cents per ordinary share 327 Interim dividend for 2009 nil cents per ordinary share 2008 10.2 cents per ordinary share 172 499 Proposed for approval at the Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability as at 31 December : Final dividend for 2009 8.0 cents per ordinary share 2008 nil cents per ordinary share 233 The 2008 comparative dividends per share have been restated after applying a rights issue bonus factor of 0.57 refer to note 12.
Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 will be paid on 14 May 2010.
The 2008 interim dividend was paid on 10 October 2008.
As stated in note 26, own shares held in the ESOP and by the ECMP have waived the right to receive dividends.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 171 14.
The Group has a 20.91% interest in the service organisation, Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited, acquired in a business combination, through which the shareholders gain access to export markets enabling them to realise higher coal sales prices than in the domestic market.
The export rights are amortised based on a units-of-production method.
The Group acquired the right to market to third parties various leading technologies for the mining, mineral processing and metals extraction industries, in a business combination.
The technology patents are amortised over their useful economic lives of 20 years to June 2023.
The Group acquired hydroelectricity rights which will be amortised over the expected life of the operation, currently estimated as being 40 years, following the completion of construction.
A long-term feed contract is being amortised over an 8-year period.
Other intangible assets mainly comprise computer software and software development that are being amortised over their useful economic lives of between 3 to 5 years.
172 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing Goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGU or groups of CGUs no larger than the reportable segments which are expected to benefit from the related acquisitions.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets which generate cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
This is usually considered a single operation or in some cases a number of operations which are in close geographical proximity or share operational efficiencies.
The carrying values of goodwill by CGU are as follows: US$m 2009 2008 Chrome Africa 44 35 Copper Americas 1,185 1,185 Zinc Lead 1,546 1,546 Zinc Lead Europe 217 212 2,992 2,978 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on an acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
US$m 2009 2008 Coal Australia 314 233 Coal Americas South 464 464 Copper Americas South 1,445 1,500 Copper Australasia 126 151 Nickel Americas North 655 Nickel Americas South 320 320 Nickel Africa 78 78 Nickel Australasia 37 79 Platinum Africa 358 284 Zinc Lead Americas North 244 244 Zinc Lead Americas South 160 160 3,546 4,168 6,538 7,146 Net of impairment losses discussed below.
The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and at the reporting date if there are indicators of impairment.
The most recent test was undertaken at 31 October 2009 and, for any assets where additional indicators of impairment were identified in November or December, testing was updated at 31 December 2009.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
The goodwill impairment expense recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, relate to the following: Impairment US$m method 2009 2008 Nickel Americas North FVLCS 655 Nickel Australasia FVLCS 55 Copper Americas South FVLCS 37 Nickel Americas South FVLCS 176 710 213 For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing in 2009, recoverable amounts have been determined based on fair value less costs to sell FVLCS calculations, with the exception of Coal Australia goodwill, Coal Americas South goodwill and Chrome Africa goodwill which have been based on value in use VIU calculations.
For the purpose of goodwill impairment testing in 2008, recoverable amounts were determined based on FVLCS calculations, with the exception of Coal Australia goodwill, Coal Colombia goodwill, Chrome Africa goodwill and partially Copper Australasia which were based on VIU calculations.
Where observable market prices are not available, FVLCS was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 173 VIU is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from mines, smelting and refining operations included within the CGUs or reportable segments.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining is expected to cease, based on managements expectations at the time of completing the testing.
This date depends on a number of variables, including recoverable reserves and resources, the forecast selling prices for such production and the treatment charges received from the refining operations.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 31 years 2008: 32 years.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the VIU calculations and in determining the FVLCS are: recoverable reserves and resources: commodity prices: operating costs: treatment charges receivable by smelting and refining operations: capital expenditure: discount rates: and foreign exchange rates.
Economically recoverable reserves and resources represent managements expectations at the time of completing the impairment testing, based on reserves and resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualified persons.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves released in October 2009 is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Chrome Africa 52 17 105 97 227 Coal Africa 806 26 2,361 1,010 757 Coal Australia 2,015 825 4,704 4,066 9,271 Coal Americas South 714 275 1,496 1,229 444 Copper Americas North 16 3 20 5 5 Copper Americas South 1,143 2,723 2,186 5,352 4,157 Copper Australasia 60 102 894 1,303 1,668 Nickel Americas North 11 11 16 35 33 Nickel Americas South 44 30 53 124 23 Nickel Africa 14 24 16 Nickel Australasia 18 46 35 84 98 Platinum Africa 19 8 47 72 114 Vanadium Africa 14 12 39 41 128 Zinc Lead Americas North 10 2 13 5 1 Zinc Lead Australasia 72 80 293 192 163 Zinc Lead Europe 11 Long-term commodity prices and treatment charges are determined by reference to external market forecasts.
Specific prices are determined using information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
Forecast prices vary in accordance with the year the sale is expected to occur.
The commodity prices used in the impairment review are management estimates and are within the range of the available analyst forecasts at 31 October 2009 and 31 December 2009.
The attributable value to reserves and resources using the FVLCS method is based on managements best estimates using market based forecasts and information available in the market.
Operating cost assumptions are based on managements best estimate at the date of impairment testing of the costs to be incurred.
Costs are determined after considering current operating costs, future cost expectations and the nature and location of the operation.
Smelting and refining treatment charges vary in accordance with the commodity processes and time of processing.
Future capital expenditure is based on managements best estimate of required future capital requirements, which generally is for the extraction of existing reserves and resources.
It has been determined by taking into account all committed and anticipated capital expenditure adjusted for future cost estimates.
174 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing continued The discount rates that have been used are outlined below.
In the case of FVLCS they represent real after-tax rates, whereas the VIU discount rates represent real pre-tax rates.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each CGU or reportable segment and the currency of the cash flows generated.
The weighted average cost of capital reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money, equity market volatility and the risks specific to the CGU or reportable segment for which cash flows have not already been adjusted.
These rates were calculated with reference to market information from third party advisors.
Discount rate Impairment method 2009 2008 Chrome VIU 10% 10% Coal VIU 10% 10% Copper VIU n a 10% Copper FVLCS 7% 11% 7% 11% Nickel FVLCS 7% 10% 7% 10% Platinum FVLCS 7% 8% 7% 8% Zinc Lead FVLCS 7% 7% In assessing the FVLCS another key assumption that would be considered by market participants, is foreign exchange rates.
The rates that have been utilised are based on external market forecasts.
Specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the Group operates.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Whilst commodity prices have generally increased substantially since 31 December 2008, a significant amount of commodity price and foreign exchange volatility continues to exist in the market.
Adverse changes in key assumptions as described below could result in changes to impairment charges specifically in relation to Copper Americas, Zinc Lead and Zinc Lead Europe.
A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in October 2009, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Copper Americas 1,159 2,726 2,986 6,374 5,626 Zinc Lead 82 82 306 197 175 A summary of the mineral resources and ore reserves related to the goodwill balances, released in January 2009, is summarised as follows: Reserves Resources Million tonnes Proved Probable Measured Indicated Inferred Copper Americas 1,283 2,737 1,603 5,462 3,390 Zinc Lead 51 108 262 202 142 Commodity prices commodity price forecasts were based on external market consensus information.
The copper prices ranged from US$1.80 per pound to US$2.98 per pound 2008 US$1.50 per pound to US$2.50 per pound, US$0.77 per pound to US$1.02 per pound 2008 US$0.64 per pound to US$0.86 per pound for zinc and US$0.58 per pound to US$1.06 per pound 2008 US$0.43 per pound to US$0.64 per pound for lead, varying in accordance with the year the sale was expected to occur.
Treatment charges received from smelting and refining In performing the FVLCS calculation for Zinc Lead, treatment charges were estimated to be in the range of US$207 per tonne to US$271 per tonne 2008 US$200 per tonne to US$231 per tonne for zinc and US$107 per tonne to US$124 per tonne 2008 US$103 per tonne to US$124 per tonne for lead refining fees, based on the year of processing.
As outlined above, these prices were based on external market consensus forecasts.
Foreign exchange rates foreign exchange rates used were based on external market consensus forecasts.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 175 The impairment tests are particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rates and foreign exchange rates.
Changes to these assumptions could have resulted in changes to impairment charges.
The below table summarises the change required to key assumptions that would result in the carrying value equalling the recoverable values: Excess of Change in the key assumption which would recoverable result in the recoverable amount equalling amount over the carrying value % carrying value Commodity Foreign 2009 US$m prices Discount rate exchange rate Copper Americas 3,146 15% 2% 24% Zinc Lead 1,371 14% 2% 22% Zinc Lead Europe 412 15% 3% 15% Amounts relate to absolute movement in discount rate.
Excess of Change in the key assumption which would recoverable result in the recoverable amount equalling amount over the carrying value % carrying value Commodity Foreign 2008 US$m prices Discount rate exchange rate Copper Americas 993 9% 2% 19% Zinc Lead 989 8% 2% 12% Zinc Lead Europe 1,057 28% 5% 36% Amounts relate to absolute movement in discount rate.
For the purposes of testing for impairment of goodwill using the VIU basis for Chrome, the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying value was US$7,780 million 2008 US$5,325 million and management is of the opinion that no reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions could result in an impairment expense being recognised.
Other non-current assets The impairment losses recognised as an exceptional item in the income statement refer to note 10, excluding the goodwill impairment above, relate to the following: US$m 2009 2008 Chrome Africa 18 Copper Americas North 155 227 Copper Americas South 170 199 Nickel Americas North 719 20 Nickel Americas South 279 Nickel Australasia 681 Zinc Lead Americas North 118 Zinc Lead Australasia 18 1,843 761 2009 The impairment charges in Copper Americas North of US$155 million and Zinc Lead Americas North of US$118 million relate to the planned closure of the Kidd metallurgical plant scheduled for 1 May 2010 due to global smelting overcapacity, record low treatment and refining charges, increasing operating and capital costs and lower demand and sales prices for sulphuric acid.
In respect of Copper Americas South, an impairment charge of US$170 million has also been recorded as a result of these ongoing challenging market conditions for custom smelting operations refer to note 10.
Impairment charges of US$1,400 million were incurred due to the restructuring of the Nickel business which included the closure of high-cost, endof-life mines in Sudbury, the suspension of the Montcalm operations, significant reductions in operational and corporate costs and the deferral of the Fraser Morgan and Sinclair Underground growth projects refer to note 10.
An impairment charge of US$241 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin following changes in foreign exchange rates, operating costs, production and commodity price outlook that have occurred since the acquisition date.
An amount of US$36 million was also recognised during 2009 in relation to the Groups share of the restructuring and closure costs, impairments and the loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of a rights issue recognised by Lonmin refer to note 10 and 20.
176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Impairment testing continued 2008 The most significant contributors to the impairment in Copper Americas North of US$227 million was the current pricing environment and increasing operating costs associated with increasing environmental costs.
In respect of Copper Americas South, an impairment of US$199 million has been recorded due to increases in input costs including electricity and sulphuric acid, eroding margins at Lomas Bayas and reduced treatment and refining charges from the shortage of concentrate at Alto Norte.
The most significant contributors to the impairment at Nickel Americas South Falcondo ferronickel operation was the suspension of production in August 2008 due to the combination of high oil prices and lower nickel prices.
Production at this asset was suspended in August 2008.
Impairment charges of US$18 million were incurred due to the closure of the Lennard Shelf zinc operation in Western Australia in August 2008, US$20 million due to the early closure of the Craig and Thayer-Lindsley nickel mines in Canada in November 2008 and impairment charges of US$18 million in relation to chrome mineral reserves.
In addition to these impairment charges, a net impairment charge of US$34 million was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Lonmin refer to notes 10 and 20.
Mining properties and leases at 31 December 2009 include deferred stripping costs of US$850 million 2008 US$588 million.
US$169 million 2008 US$243 million of deferred stripping costs were capitalised during the year.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2009 is US$109 million 2008 US$88 million.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance leases and hire purchase liabilities.
The carrying value of other property, plant and equipment pledged as security is US$nil 2008 US$nil.
US$17 million 2008 US$20 million of interest was capitalised during the year and there is US$36 million 2008 US$19 million of capitalised interest within property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2009.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4.4% 2008: 4.8%, which is the effective interest rate of the specific borrowing.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2009 that is temporarily idle is US$68 million 2008 US$nil.
The Group has made commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totalling US$1,163 million at 31 December 2009 2008 US$346 million.
Biological assets US$m 2009 2008 At 1 January 11 19 Disposals 3 Net gain loss from fair value less estimated selling cost adjustments 5 1 Translation adjustments 4 4 At 31 December 20 11 Biological assets are stated at fair value less estimated selling costs, which has been determined based on independent valuations as at 31 December 2009 and 2008, on the basis of open market value, supported by market evidence.
Inventories US$m 2009 2008 Current: Raw materials and consumables 1,386 1,353 Work in progress 2,238 1,350 Finished goods 946 870 4,570 3,573 Non-current: Work in progress 44 39 44 39 Non-current inventories comprises long-term ore stockpiles that are not planned to be processed within one year.
Trade and other receivables US$m 2009 2008 Current: Trade debtors 2,856 1,405 Advances 78 144 Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 18 11 Recoverable sales tax 275 298 Other debtors 79 83 3,306 1,941 Non-current: Employee entitlement receivables refer to note 32 43 33 Other debtors 38 44 81 77 178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Investment in associates Lonmin plc In August 2008, the Group acquired 16,706,481 shares in Lonmin plc for US$1,084 million.
In October 2008 the Group acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares for US$794 million, resulting in a total acquisition price of US$1,878 million.
Following the October 2008 transaction, the Group held 24.9% of Lonmin plc and determined it was an associate of the Group.
Lonmin plc which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and Johannesburg Stock Exchange is one of the worlds largest platinum producers with operations principally in South Africa.
In June 2009, the Group acquired 8,653,204 shares in Lonmin plc for US$112 million as part of a 2 for 9 Rights Issue of 35.1 million new ordinary shares at GBP9.00 per new share for shareholders on the London Stock Exchange and at ZAR113.04 per new share for shareholders on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The share price of Lonmin as listed on the London stock exchange at 31 December 2009 was GBP19.59 per share 2008 GBP9.11 per share.
The Group believes that the recoverable amount of the investment using the VIU method was higher than the value based on the listed share price at that date because this share price continues to reflect ongoing significant uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets as opposed to the fundamental long-term value of this investment.
However, during the year the Group recognised a net exceptional impairment charge of US$241 million 2008 US$34 million after determining the recoverable amount of the investment was lower than the carrying amount refer to notes 10 and 15.
The carrying amount of Lonmin at 31 December 2009 was US$1,603 million 2008 US$1,788 million.
Other associates The Groups other associates are: interests in coal terminals Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd, Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd, through which it gains access to export markets refer to note 36 : and a 25% interest in the Noranda Income Fund which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Group held 12,500,000 2008: 12,500,000 units in the Noranda Income Fund and the unit price as listed on the Toronto stock exchange at 31 December 2009 was CAD2.55 per unit 2008 CAD4.15 per unit.
The Group has determined that the recoverable amount of the investment calculated using the VIU method is higher than the value based on the listed unit price because of the ongoing significant uncertainty and volatility in world economic markets in late 2008 that continued during 2009.
The companies which own the coal terminals are not listed so there is no published quoted price for the value of these investments.
The Group estimates that the carrying value of these investments is equal to fair value.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the above associates: US$m 2009 2008 Share of associates balance sheet: Non-current assets 2,548 2,933 Current assets 617 789 Total assets 3,165 3,722 Non-current liabilities 815 1,032 Current liabilities 305 355 Total liabilities 1,120 1,387 Non-controlling interests 255 372 Net attributable assets 1,790 1,963 Carrying amount of the investment 1,790 1,963 Share of associates revenue and profit: Revenue 409 175 EBITDA 1 22 EBIT 361 23 Net interest paid received 16 2 Income tax credit expense 35 1 Loss for the year 342 22 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 333 22 Non-controlling interests 9 342 22 All associates have a reporting date of 31 December, except for Lonmin, which has a reporting date of 30 September.
The Groups share of results from associates is included above.
The Groups share of Lonmins results is based on Lonmins financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2009 and adjusted for any significant known transactions between October and December 2009.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 179 21.
Interests in joint venture entities The Group has various interests in jointly controlled entities, operations and assets as outlined in note 36.
The Group recognises its interests in jointly controlled entities using the proportionate method of consolidation as outlined in note 6.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups jointly controlled entities in Africa and South America: US$m 2009 2008 Share of joint ventures balance sheets: Non-current assets 9,921 9,916 Current assets 994 508 Total assets 10,915 10,424 Non-current liabilities 2,034 2,026 Current liabilities 362 331 Total liabilities 2,396 2,357 Net assets 8,519 8,067 Net assets consolidated 8,519 8,067 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit: Revenue 2,370 2,447 Cost of sales before depreciation and amortisation 429 498 Distribution costs 193 231 Administration expenses before depreciation and amortisation 30 EBITDA 1,748 1,688 Depreciation and amortisation 378 384 EBIT 1,370 1,304 Finance income 354 7 Finance costs 8 14 Profit before tax 1,716 1,297 Income tax expense 431 372 Profit for the year 1,285 925 22.
Available-for-sale financial assets US$m 2009 2008 At fair value: Shares listed 216 68 Shares unlisted 4 3 Royalty contract 144 90 364 161 Available-for-sale financial assets consist of a long-term royalty income contract and investments in listed and unlisted ordinary shares that have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments are held for strategic purposes.
In 2009 and 2008, the listed shares related to companies in the mining industry.
The listed shares are carried at fair value.
Unlisted shares mainly comprise interests in ports in Australia used to export coal and are carried at fair value.
180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial assets US$m 2009 2008 Current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 144 6 Other commodity derivatives 8 Other foreign currency derivatives 15 15 159 29 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 84 47 Fair value interest rate swap hedges 566 715 Other interest rate derivatives 48 12 698 774 Total 857 803 24.
Other financial assets US$m 2009 2008 Current: At amortised cost: Investment in operations 2,424 2,424 Non-current: At fair value: Rehabilitation trust fund 77 42 Loans to joint venture partners 234 165 Other 37 28 348 235 Total 2,772 235 Investment in operations Following shareholder approval, the Group acquired 100% of the Prodeco Colombian coal operations Prodeco from Glencore International AG Glencore on 3 March 2009 for a net cost of US$2 billion and the rights to Prodecos earnings from 1 January 2009.
The Group agreed to grant Glencore a call option to repurchase Prodeco, on any business day up to 4 March 2010, for US$2.25 billion, plus minus the net cash paid to received from Prodeco and all profits of Prodeco accrued but not distributed to the Group.
The profits of Prodeco are recognised as finance income in the period earned and the call option premium is included in finance income proportionately over the life of the option refer to note 10.
If Glencore do not exercise the call option, Prodeco will be consolidated as a wholly owned subsidiary from the date the option lapses.
Rehabilitation trust fund The rehabilitation trust fund in South Africa receives cash contributions to accumulate funds for the Groups rehabilitation liabilities relating to the eventual closure of the Groups coal operations.
Amounts are paid out from the trust fund following completion and approval of the rehabilitation work by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy.
The contributions to the trust fund are placed with investment banks that are responsible for making investments in equity and money market instruments.
The trust fund is to be used according to the terms of the trust deed and the assets are not available for the general purpose of the Group.
The trust fund is carried at fair value.
Loans to joint venture partners ZAR denominated loans of US$234 million 2008 US$165 million receivable from ARM Coal.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest with no fixed repayment date.
Cash and cash equivalents and non-cash transactions US$m 2009 2008 Cash at bank and in hand 670 720 Short-term deposits 507 436 1,177 1,156 The majority of cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates of interest with a limited amount at fixed rates of interest or interest free.
Short-term deposits are made at call and for less than one week, dependent on the short-term cash requirements of the Group and earn interest based on the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 approximates carrying value.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 181 For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following at 31 December: US$m 2009 2008 Cash at bank and in hand 670 720 Short-term deposits 507 436 Bank overdrafts refer to note 28 12 11 1,165 1,145 During the year, the Group entered into new finance leases and hire purchase contracts to purchase various items of plant and equipment for US$67 million 2008 US$30 million, issued shares from the conversion of the convertible borrowings and issued shares to the ESOP for a market value of US$102 million 2008 US$412 million which did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents and are not included in the net cash flow used in investing and financing activities in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Capital and reserves US$m Authorised: 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 750 3,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each increase on 2 March 2009 1,500 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 2,250 50,000 deferred shares of GBP1.00 each as at 31 December 2008 and at 31 December 2009 1 special voting share of US$0.50 as at 31 December 2008 and as at 31 December 2009 2,250 Issued, called up and fully paid: 971,666,920 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2008 485 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 16 January 2008 to the ESOP 3 3,620 ordinary shares issued on 14 July 2008 on the exercise of convertible borrowings 977,670,540 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2008 488 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares issued on 18 March 2009 from a shareholder rights issue 978 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 3 2,939,011,620 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 1,469 Share Premium: At 1 January 2008 9,899 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 16 January 2008 to the ESOP 409 3,620 shares issued on the exercise of the convertible borrowings to 31 December 2008 As at 31 December 2008 10,308 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares issued on 18 March 2009 from a shareholder rights issue 4,689 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 99 As at 31 December 2009 15,096 Own shares: 13,156,691 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 1 January 2008 651 6,000,000 ordinary shares purchased on 16 January 2008 by the ESOP 412 6,920,000 ordinary shares purchased in July 2008 by the ECMP 508 4,664,407 ordinary shares disposed during the year 256 242,702 ordinary shares purchased during the year 17 21,654,986 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2008 1,332 Proceeds from the sale of rights issue entitlements 48 16,377,594 ordinary shares acquired from rights issue on 18 March 2009 48 6,000,000 ordinary shares issued on 17 December 2009 to the ESOP 102 4,228,231 ordinary shares disposed during the year 134 822,529 ordinary shares purchased during the year 6 40,626,878 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each as at 31 December 2009 1,306 182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Capital and reserves continued Details in respect of the various classes of shares are outlined in the Directors Report on pages 102 to 104.
Issue of ordinary shares On 18 March 2009, 1,955,341,080 ordinary shares were issued under a rights issue which was structured as an issue of 2 new ordinary shares at a price of GBP2.10 per share for every 1 existing ordinary share held.
The net proceeds from the rights issue were US$5,667 million after US$126 million of capital raising costs and the number of shares in issue of Xstrata plc following the completion of the rights issue was 2,933,011,620.
On 17 December 2009, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP10.47 per share.
On 16 January 2008, 6,000,000 shares were issued to the ESOP at a market price of GBP34.90 per share.
During 2008, 0.03% of the US$375 million of convertible borrowings was converted at the option of the holders into 3,620 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc refer to note 29.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares of Xstrata plc held in the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and shares held by Batiss Investments Batiss for the Equity Capital Management Program ECMP.
The shares acquired by the ESOP are either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The ESOP is used to co-ordinate the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares for options and free share awards under the Groups employee award schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP is permitted to place the shares back into the market and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
At 31 December 2009, 12,198,092 2008: 5,424,986 shares, equivalent to 0.4% 2008: 0.5% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$280 million 2008 US$306 million and market value of US$221 million 2008 US$51 million.
The trust has waived the right to receive dividends from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
The shares acquired from the stock market by Batiss and held for the ECMP are used by the Group as a source of financing for future acquisitions, or placed back into the market.
The decision as to when to place the shares in the market, use the shares to assist the Group in facilitating future transactions, or to repurchase shares for cancellation, is considered in light of the Groups funding requirements and capital structure.
Batiss is not permitted to hold more than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
Batiss has entered into an option agreement with Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. Xstrata Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary within the Xstrata Group, whereby Batiss has granted to Xstrata Capital a right to require Batiss to sell the purchased Xstrata shares to a third party other than a subsidiary of Xstrata plc, as nominated by Xstrata Capital, at an exercise price of 1p per share.
Under the option agreement, Xstrata Capital pays Batiss a premium for this right, the premium being the equivalent of the market price paid by Batiss for the shares plus associated costs less the 1p exercise price.
This premium payment, together with funds from a subscription by Xstrata Capital for non-voting redeemable preference shares in Batiss, provides the funding for Batiss to acquire the shares in the market.
These payments are sourced from the existing and future cash resources of Xstrata Capital.
Xstrata Capital is able to exercise its right under the option agreement for a period of six years from the date of each purchase, but has not chosen to do so in either 2009 or 2008.
Batiss has waived its right to receive dividends on the shares which it holds.
At 31 December 2009, 28,428,786 2008: 16,230,000 shares, equivalent to 1.0% 2008: 1.7% of the total issued share capital, were held by the trust with a cost of US$1,026 million 2008 US$1,026 million and market value of US$515 million 2008 US$152 million.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 183 Consolidated changes in equity Other reserves Net unrealised Foreign currency US$m Revaluation reservesOther reserves gains losses translation Total At 1 January 2008 1,440 1,229 175 2,561 5,055 Losses on available-for-sale financial assets 114 114 Losses on cash flow hedges 157 157 Realised losses on cash flow hedges 360 360 Recycled foreign currency translation net losses 246 246 Foreign currency translation differences 3,980 3,980 Deferred tax 21 65 44 At 31 December 2008 1,440 1,229 107 1,108 1,454 Gains on available-for-sale financial assets 209 209 Realised losses on available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 Gains on cash flow hedges 456 456 Realised gains on cash flow hedges 312 312 Foreign currency translation differences 3,930 3,930 Deferred tax 59 73 132 At 31 December 2009 1,440 1,229 188 2,749 5,606 Realised gains of US$312 million 2008 realised losses of US$360 million are included in Revenue in the income statement.
Revaluation reserves This reserve principally records the re-measurement from cost of the 19.9% interest held in Falconbridge Limited Falconbridge to the fair value of 19.9% of the identifiable net assets of Falconbridge on 15 August 2006, the date the Group obtained control of Falconbridge.
Other reserves This reserve principally originated during 2002 from the merger of Xstrata AG into Xstrata plc of US$279 million and the issue of shares from the acquisition of the Duiker and Enex Groups of US$935 million.
Net unrealised gains losses reserve This reserve records the re-measurement of available-for-sale financial assets to fair value refer to note 22 and the effective portion of the gain or loss on cash flow hedging contracts refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
Deferred tax is provided on the re-measurement at tax rates enacted or substantively enacted.
Foreign currency translation reserve This is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the exchange differences from the translation of quasi equity inter-company loans in foreign operations.
On disposal or partial disposal of a foreign entity the deferred accumulated amount recognised in this reserve is transferred to the income statement.
Capital management The capital of Xstrata plc is the total equity and long-term borrowings, including capital market notes refer to note 28 and convertible borrowings refer to note 29, on the Groups balance sheet.
The objective of the Companys capital management is to grow and manage a diversified portfolio of metals and mining businesses with the aim of delivering industry-leading returns for its shareholders.
The management of the Groups capital is performed by the Board of Directors.
There are no externally imposed capital requirements.
Trade and other payables US$m 2009 2008 Current: Trade payables 1,796 1,667 Sundry payables 619 530 Interest payable 72 145 Accruals and other payables 1,210 891 3,697 3,233 Non-current: Accruals and other payables 32 29 32 29 Total 3,729 3,262 All current payables are expected to be settled in the next 12 months and non-current payables are expected to be settled over a weighted average life of 6 years 2008: 12 years.
184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings US$m 2009 2008 Current: At amortised cost: Bank overdrafts 12 11 Bank loans other unsecured 46 84 Capital market notes 97 593 Non-controlling interest loans 5 17 Preference shares 64 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 46 25 206 794 Non-current: At amortised cost: Syndicated bank loans unsecured 3,827 6,974 Bank loans other unsecured 174 221 Capital market notes 8,924 8,913 Non-controlling interest loans 81 81 i Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 135 85 Other loans 111 63 13,252 16,337 Non-current: At amortised cost: Convertible borrowings refer to note 29 335 331 Total 13,793 17,462 Less cash and cash equivalents refer to note 25 1,177 1,156 Net debt excluding hedges 12,616 16,306 Hedges 326 280 Net debt including hedges 12,290 16,026 Net debt is defined as loans and borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents.
Derivative financial instruments that have been used to provide an economic hedge of capital market notes have been included above to reflect a more accurate overall net debt position of the Group at year end.
i Secured over specific items of plant and equipment refer to note 16.
Existing facilities in 2009 The Xstrata Group has entered into the bank loans as described below: Syndicated bank loans On 25 July 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$4,680 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate which is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 27.5 basis points per annum.
The facility matures on 31 July 2012.
As of 31 December 2009, US$840 million 2008 US$195 million was available to be drawn under this facility.
Repaid facilities in 2009 On 6 October 2008, the Group entered into a US$5,000 million multi-currency revolving syndicated loan facility Club Facility.
Interest is payable on drawn down amounts at a rate which is the aggregate of LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR and the relevant margin, which is 150 basis points per annum.
The Club Facility was amended on 30 December 2008 to increase the facility amount to US$5,459 million and is scheduled to mature on 30 September 2011.
The amounts drawn down under this facility were fully repaid from the proceeds from the rights issue refer to note 26.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 185 Repaid facilities in 2008 On 25 February 2008, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$500 million revolving loan facility that matured on 31 December 2008.
Interest was payable on the loans at LIBOR plus 50.0 basis points per annum.
On 8 October 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$2,000 million 364-day Revolving Loan Facility.
Draw downs had been made to partly fund the acquisitions of the Mangoola coal project, Austral Coal Limited and Eland Platinum Holdings Limited.
Interest was payable on the loans at a rate which was the aggregate of LIBOR and the relevant margin, which was 27.5 basis points per annum.
This facility was re financed during 2008.
On 6 December 2007, the Group entered into a guaranteed US$1,500 million 364-day Revolving Loan Facility.
Capital market notes As at 31 December 2009, other unsecured private placements included: At Fixed or Effective At Effective 31 Dec 09 floating interest rate 31 Dec 08 interest rate Facility Denomination US$m interest rate % in 2009 Maturity US$m %in 2008 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 26 Fixed 6.75 Jun 11 39 6.75 a Series B senior unsecured notes US$ 52 Fixed 7.00 Jun 11 52 7.00 b Unsecured notes US$ Floating 1.42 Nov 09 499 3.41 b Unsecured notes US$ 770 Fixed 5.50 Nov 11 810 5.50 b Unsecured notes US$ 1,096 Fixed 5.80 Nov 16 1,187 5.80 c Unsecured notes EUR 782 Fixed 4.88 Jun 12 754 4.88 c Unsecured notes EUR 810 Fixed 5.25 Jun 17 774 5.25 d Unsecured notes US$ 494 Fixed 6.90 Nov 37 494 6.90 e Unsecured notes EUR 1,133 Fixed 5.88 May 11 1,096 5.88 e Unsecured notes EUR 919 Fixed 6.25 May 15 881 6.25 e Unsecured notes GBP 845 Fixed 7.38 May 20 774 7.38 f Senior debentures US$ 327 Fixed 6.03 Feb 11 337 6.03 f Senior debentures US$ 271 Fixed 5.88 Jun 12 277 5.88 f Senior debentures US$ 308 Fixed 6.06 Jul 12 311 6.06 f Senior debentures US$ 377 Fixed 6.34 Oct 15 406 6.34 f Senior debentures US$ 257 Fixed 6.16 Jun 15 265 6.16 f Senior debentures US$ 238 Fixed 6.39 Jun 17 237 6.39 f Senior debentures US$ 234 Fixed 6.77 Jun 35 233 6.77 g Commercial paper US$ 82 Floating 0.92 Feb 10 80 2.75 9,021 9,506 a An Australian subsidiary has designated the series B senior unsecured notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in South America refer to note 37.
The hedge is being used to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk.
b In November 2006, the Group issued US$2,250 million of guaranteed capital market notes to refinance existing debt facilities.
The notes are comprised of three tranches, a US$1,000 million 10-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.8%, a US$750 million five-year note at a fixed interest rate of 5.5% and a US$500 million three-year note that bears interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 35 basis points.
c In June 2007 the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,000 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR500 million 4.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2012 and EUR500 million 5.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2017.
These bonds have been swapped to US$.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised gain of US$82 million 2008 US$47 million at 31 December 2009 refer to note 37. d In November 2007, the Group issued guaranteed 30-year notes of US$500 million bearing interest at a fixed rate of 6.9%.
e In May 2008 the Group issued a two-tranche EUR1,350 million guaranteed bond offering, comprising EUR750 million 5.875% fixed guaranteed notes due 2011 and EUR600 million 6.25% fixed guaranteed notes due 2015.
In May 2008 the Group issued a guaranteed bond offering of GBP500 million 7.375% fixed guaranteed notes due 2020.
The swaps have been accounted for as cash flow hedges with an unrealised loss of US$356 million at 31 December 2009 2008 US$482 million refer to note 37. f The guaranteed senior debentures were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge in 2006.
Pursuant to the terms of the note indentures as amended by supplemental indentures, Xstrata plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed in favour of the holders of the senior debentures the payment, within 15 days of when due, of all financial liabilities and obligations of Xstrata Canada Corporation to such holders under the terms of the senior debentures.
g In February 2008, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million commercial paper programme facility, with maturities of up to 12 months.
Interest is payable on the notes at a rate which is based on LIBOR.
During 2009, the Group redeemed all of the three year floating rate US$500 million capital market notes in November 2009 for US$499 million and US$31 million of the 5 year fixed rate US$750 million capital market notes, maturing November 2011 for US$26 million, resulting in a gain of US$6 million.
A portion of the fixed interest rate of the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures has been swapped to a floating rate.
The swaps have been accounted for as fair value hedges with an unrealised gain of US$569 million 2008 US$671 million gain at 31 December 2009 refer to note 37.
Hedging ineffectiveness during 2009 resulted in other financial loss of US$17 million 2008 US$45 million gain.
186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued Preference shares On 2 March 2009, the Group redeemed all of its outstanding unsecured preferred shares series 3 for CAD79 million.
Fixed or Effective floating interest At 31 Dec 09 interest At 31 Dec 08 rate % Facility Denomination US$m rate Interest rate % Maturity US$m in 2008 Preference shares series 2 CAD Floating Jun 12 Preference shares series 3 CAD Fixed 4.58 Mar 09 64 4.58 64 Holders of Preference shares series 2 had the right to convert their shares into Preference shares series 3 in March 2009, subject to certain conditions.
The preference shares were assumed by the Group through the acquisition of Falconbridge in 2006.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series 3 for a cash consideration of CAD79 million US$61 million in March 2009.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series H for a cash consideration of CAD150 million US$148 million in June 2008.
The Group completed the redemption of all of the outstanding preferred shares, series 2 for a cash consideration of CAD122 million US$120 million in July 2008.
The preference shares were classified within interest-bearing loans and borrowings because in the majority of cases the cumulative dividends must have been paid for an indefinite period and or the shares were transferable into a variable number of equity instruments.
Bank loans other unsecured Other bank loans includes: Debts of proportionally consolidated joint ventures of US$139 million 2008 US$139 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 175 basis points, repayable in September 2012 and US$81 million 2008 US$122 million which bear interest at a rate based on LIBOR plus 31 basis points, repayable by December 2011: ZAR denominated borrowings of US$nil 2008 US$1 million that are subject to floating interest rates based on Johannesburg inter-bank acceptance rate JIBAR, repayable by December 2010: and US$ denominated borrowings of US$nil 2008 US$43 million that was subject to floating interest rates based on Canadian Deposit Offering Rate CDOR plus 110 basis points.
This loan was repaid in January 2009.
Bank overdrafts unsecured The Group has bank overdrafts that are subject to local and US$ prime floating interest rates in which they have been drawn down.
The majority of the bank overdrafts are denominated in Canadian and US dollars.
Non-controlling interest loans Non-controlling interest loans include US$81 million 2008 US$81 million advanced to Minera Alumbrera Limited to fund operations that are subject to a fixed rate of 7.2% per annum 2008 7.2% per annum, repayable by May 2012.
Non-controlling interest loan of US$5 million 2008 US$17 million advanced to Resource Pacific that is subject to a floating rate based on the Reserve Bank of Australia cash rate plus 2.0% per annum, no fixed repayment date but expected to be repaid within the next 12 months.
Other loans Other loans include: AUD denominated loans of US$105 million 2008 US$57 million payable to Western Mining Corporation Resources International Limited and Indophil Resources Limited for the Tampakan copper project.
The loan is subject to a fixed rate of interest of 4%, payable quarterly with no fixed repayment date and is not payable within 12 months: and Loan of US$6 million 2008 US$6 million from Cantabria Government and Spanish Ministry of Industry & Energy, unsecured and interest free.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 187 29.
Convertible borrowings US$m 2009 2008 Convertible bond 335 331 335 331 Convertible borrowings On 6 September 2005, Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV issued a US$375 million Convertible Debenture to Brookfield, due 14 August 2017, convertible at the option of the holder into fully paid Xstrata plc ordinary shares.
The Convertible Debenture was guaranteed by the Company and was issued at par, with a coupon of 4.0% per annum.
On issue it was convertible at any time on or after 14 August 2006 at the option of the holder into 12,100,332 ordinary shares in Xstrata plc based on a conversion price of GBP17.13 US$30.99 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate per ordinary share, representing a 35% premium to the closing price of Xstrata plcs ordinary shares on 11 August 2005.
Following the rights issue in October 2006, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 13,575,432 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP15.27 US$27.62 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
On the giving of not less than 30 days notice, the Convertible Debenture could have been called by the Group at par plus accrued interest, at any time after 14 August 2010.
Unless previously converted, redeemed or cancelled, the 2017 Convertible Debenture was redeemable on 14 August 2017 at its principal amount plus unpaid accrued interest.
On 13 October 2006, the Convertible Debenture was cancelled and a 2017 Convertible Bond was issued to the holder of the Convertible Debenture.
The terms of the Convertible Bond are consistent with those of the cancelled Convertible Debenture.
On 16 October 2006, the Financial Services Authority approved the admission to the Official List by way of block listing of 13,575,432 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each to be issued upon conversion of the 2017 Convertible Bond.
The 2017 Convertible Bond is listed on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is carried at amortised cost based on an effective interest rate of 5.74% per annum.
During 2008, 0.03% of the US$375 million of convertible bonds was converted by the holders refer to note 26.
Following the conversions that occurred during 2008, the remaining number of ordinary shares that could be issued under the bond at 31 December 2008 was 13,571,812.
Following the rights issue in March 2009, the total number of ordinary shares that could have been converted was increased to 25,680,492 and the conversion price was adjusted to GBP8.07 US$14.60 converted into GBP at a fixed exchange rate.
There were no conversions during 2009.
Derivative financial liabilities US$m 2009 2008 Current: At fair value: Commodity cash flow hedges 52 65 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 8 Other commodity derivatives 9 Other foreign currency derivatives 120 52 202 Non-current: At fair value: Foreign currency cash flow hedges 356 482 Other foreign currency derivatives 135 79 Other interest rate swaps 14 8 505 569 Total 557 771 31.
Other financial liabilities US$m 2009 2008 Non-current: At fair value: Loans from joint venture partners 155 334 At amortised cost: Loans from development project partners 383 349 Total 538 683 Loans from joint venture partners ZAR denominated loans of US$155 million 2008 US$334 million payable to ARM Coal.
The loan is subject to a floating rate of interest based on a dividend calculation with no fixed repayment date and is not callable within 12 months.
Loans from development project partners US$ denominated loans of US$383 million 2008 US$349 million payable to Socit Minire du Sud Pacifique for the Koniambo nickel project.
188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Provisions PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2009 At 1 January 430 16 345 1,551 198 194 2,734 Arising during the year 153 222 65 63 25 193 721 Discount unwinding 95 5 100 PPE asset adjustment refer to note 16 181 181 Transferred to assets classified as held for sale 3 56 59 Utilised 183 14 22 97 72 120 508 Unused amounts reversed 2 12 18 32 Translation adjustments 82 56 135 44 13 330 At 31 December 477 224 444 1,860 182 280 3,467 Current 325 92 29 177 623 Non-current 152 224 444 1,768 153 103 2,844 477 224 444 1,860 182 280 3,467 PostShare-based retirement Employee compensation medical Rehabilitation Onerous US$m entitlements plans plans costs contracts Other 2008 At 1 January 414 102 481 1,533 120 169 2,819 Acquisitions 7 12195214 Arising during the year 222 163 40 28 50 208 711 Discount unwinding 10 91 8 109 PPE asset adjustment refer to note 16 195 195 Discontinued operations and disposals 8 8 Utilised 158 10 98 165 119 179 729 Unused amounts reversed 6 239 15 260 Translation adjustments 59 78 120 56 4 317 At 31 December 430 16 345 1,551 198 194 2,734 Current 282 3654125497 Non-current 14816345 1,515144692,237 43016345 1,5511981942,734 Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provisions mainly represent the value of excess leave entitlements allocated over the leave taken by the employees of the Group.
These amounts are expected to be utilised as the employees either take their accrued leave or receive equivalent benefits upon ceasing employment.
Current employee entitlements includes excess short-term leave entitlements and the portion of non-current employee entitlements that are expected to be incurred within 12 months.
Non-current entitlements include long service leave entitlements which are payable upon an employee attaining a certain period of service and workers compensation provisions.
For some entitlements, amounts will also be recovered from an independent fund refer to note 19.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 9 years 2008: 12 years.
Share-based compensation plans The Group has granted various share-based compensation plans to certain executives and senior employees that will be cash-settled refer to note 35.
The intrinsic value of the cash settled share-based compensation plans that had vested at 31 December 2009 was US$39 million 2008 US$6 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Group operates unfunded post-retirement medical benefit plans in North America and a comparatively smaller plan in South Africa for a number of current and former employees.
Independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 19 years 2008: 12 years refer to note 35.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 189 Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the estimated costs required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of mining activities.
These amounts will reverse when such rehabilitation has been performed.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 21 years 2008: 26 years refer to note 24.
Onerous contracts Onerous contract provisions represent the restatement of various long-term contracts to their current market value at the acquisition date of subsidiaries.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of 15 years 2008: 10 years.
Other Other includes provisions for litigation of US$60 million 2008 US$60 million and restructuring of US$96 million 2008 US$28 million.
The current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised in the next 12 months and the non-current portion of these costs is expected to be utilised over a weighted average life of two years 2008: two years.
Other liabilities US$m 2009 2008 Current: Deferred income 39 35 39 35 Non-current: Deferred income 9 105 9 105 34.
Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into leases for buildings, motor vehicles and sundry plant and equipment.
These leases have an average life of five years 2008 four years with renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December are as follows: US$m 2009 2008 Within one year 43 46 After one year but not more than five years 91 102 More than five years 30 28 164 176 Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has entered into finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of plant and machinery.
The majority of these leases include a residual balloon payment at the end of the lease term and title passing to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the future finance charges as at 31 December are as follows: Present Present Un-discounted value of Un-discounted value of minimum minimum minimum minimum payments payments payments payments US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Within one year 65 46 31 25 After one year but not more than five years 168 109 65 49 More than five years 46 26 54 36 Total minimum lease payments 279 181 150 110 Less amounts representing finance lease charges 98 40 Present value of minimum lease payments 181 181 110 110 190 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Commitments and contingencies continued Capital commitments Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements amounted to US$2,048 million 2008 US$1,701 million, including: Xstrata Coal US$663 million for fleet expansion at Mangoola and Liddell, US$123 million for Oakbridge expansion 2008 US$nil, US$nil 2008 US$52 million for longwall equipment at Oaky and US$22 million 2008 US$34 million for electric shovels at Cerrejon: Xstrata Nickel US$623 million 2008 US$839 million for the Koniambo project and US$28 million 2008 US$5 million for the Nickel Rim South project: and Xstrata Zinc US$nil 2008 US$27 million for the development of an open cut mine at Mt Isa.
The balance of the other amounts contracted for but not provided relates to various minor commitments around the Group, mainly for the purchase of new property, plant and equipment.
Included in the above is US$732 million 2008 US$195 million representing the Groups share of the capital commitments that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Finance leases entered into after 31 December 2009 amounted to US$nil 2008 US$nil.
Guarantees Xstrata Coal Australia has contracted US$1,676 million 2008 US$492 million for rail take or pay commitments, US$2,358 million 2008 US$341 million for port take or pay commitments, US$127 million for tyres take or pay commitments 2008 US$nil, US$51 million 2008 US$nil for electricity take or pay commitments, US$262 million 2008 US$nil for explosives take or pay commitments, performance guarantees to customers and suppliers under contracts for supply of coal and services for US$109 million 2008 US$34 million and guarantees to the New South Wales and Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof US$312 million 2008 US$203 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has issued guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy to obtain certain prospecting permits of US$66 million 2008 US$52 million and performance guarantees to suppliers of US$8 million 2008 US$6 million.
Xstrata Coal South Africa has tyres take or pay commitments for US$20 million 2008 US$nil.
Xstrata Alloys has issued guarantees to Eskom for power usage and early termination of power usage of US$21 million 2008 US$18 million and to the Department of Mineral and Energy Mineral Resources, municipalities and governmental boards in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof for US$34 million 2008 US$21 million.
Xstrata Copper, Xstrata Zinc and Xstrata Technology Australia have issued performance guarantees to customers for US$36 million 2008 US$27 million and guarantees to the Queensland Departments for Mineral Resources and other government agencies in respect of various mining leases and the performance thereof, environmental bonds and self insurance licences US$266 million 2008 US$161 million.
Xstrata Nickel has contracted US$143 million 2008 US$95 million for energy purchase commitments and issued bank guarantees to the Government of Western Australia for rehabilitation costs of US$6 million 2008 US$6 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued performance guarantees to the Northern Territory government for an electricity supply and pipeline agreement of US$14 million 2008 US$22 million, and to suppliers of US$2 million 2008 US$17 million.
It has provided bank guarantees to the Northern Territory government for rehabilitation costs of US$68 million 2008 US$54 million.
Xstrata Zinc has issued bank guarantees in Spain of US$58 million 2008 US$54 million.
This includes US$5 million 2008 US$5 million as a guarantee to the local government for the rehabilitation of the closed Reocin mine Cantabria, Spain and US$2 million 2008 US$2 million as guarantee of the rehabilitation of a jarofix pond in San Juan fide Nieva.
A letter of credit of US$192 million 2008 US$166 million has been given for the pension liabilities of the Groups Canadian operations.
Letters of credit have been issued to the Canadian government for rehabilitation costs of US$64 million 2008 US$40 million.
Included in the above is US$3,748 million 2008 US$1,097 million representing the Groups share of guarantees that have been incurred jointly with other venturers.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 191 35.
Employee benefits Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year is shown in the following table: US$m 2009 2008 Expense arising from equity settled transactions 112 245 Expense arising from cash settled transactions 222 239 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 334 6 The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans which are outlined below.
With the exception of the AVP that was modified in May 2008 as discussed below, there have been no cancellations or modifications to any of the plans during 2009 or 2008.
Xstrata plc Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP has two elements: i A contingent award of free ordinary shares that vests after three years, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied: and ii An option to acquire ordinary shares at a specified exercise price after the third anniversary of grant, subject to, and to the extent that, performance criteria determined at the time of grant have been satisfied.
All LTIP awards that vest are subject to the satisfaction of certain performance criteria being met over a three-year performance period.
The 2003 LTIP awards are only subject to the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance criteria.
Half of the options and free share awards granted in 2004 and 2005 are conditional on TSR relative to a peer group, with the remainder conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale over the three-year period.
Employee benefits continued For the awards conditional on TSR, one-half of the award will vest if TSR growth is at the median of the specified peer group, the full award will vest for performance at or above the second decile with straight-line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur for below median performance.
For the awards where vesting is conditional on the Groups real cost savings relative to targets set on a stretching scale: 10% of the award will vest for 1% cost savings, 70% for 2% cost savings and all awards for 3% or more cost savings, with straight-line vesting between these points.
No vesting will occur if cost savings are less than 1%.
Real cost savings are measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of inflation, excluding depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life of mine adjustments.
No other features of the LTIP awards are incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
No consideration will be payable on the vesting of an LTIP award of free ordinary shares.
On exercise of an option, a participant will be required to pay an exercise price which is based on the closing market price of an ordinary share seven trading days prior to the date of grant.
Of the options listed below, 4.5 million 2008: 1.9 million are accounted for as cash-settled share-based awards whilst the remainder of the LTIP awards are equity-settled.
The movement in the number of free ordinary shares and share options is as follows: Free shares 2009 2009 2008 2008 No WAEP No WAEP 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 2,765,198 N A 3,247,747 N A Granted through rights issue 2,111,982 N A N A Granted during the year 9,019,389 N A 942,177 N A Forfeited during the year 732,221 N A 48,835 N A 3 2 Exercised during the year 1,004,501 N A 1,375,891 N A Outstanding as at 31 December 12,159,847 N A 2,765,198 N A Exercisable at 31 December N A N A 1 All shares included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP36.98.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these awards was GBP3.66.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the free shares outstanding as at 31 December 2009 is 8.8 years 2008: 8.2 years.
The weighted average fair value of free shares granted during the year was US$3.98 per share 2008 US$60.46 per share.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP39.67.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP9.55.
4 All the share options included in this balance have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, except for 53,417 options 2008: 65,708 options issued in 2002.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2009: 8.1 years 2008: 7.4 years.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$2.48 2008 US$21.39.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was GBP1.82 to GBP20.02 2008 GBP3.22 to GBP35.36.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 193 The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of equity-settled awards granted: Date of Date of grant grant 2009 2008 Dividend yield % 0.8 Expected volatility % 62 36 Risk-free interest rate % 2.2 4.1 Earliest exercise date 12 Mar 12 04 Apr 11 Latest exercise date 11 Mar 19 03 Apr 18 Expected exercise date 25 Dec 12 19 Jan 12 Share price at date of grant GBP 3.26 37.06 Exercise price GBP 3.35 35.36 Free share fair value at date of grant GBP 2.86 30.33 Option fair value at date of grant GBP 1.43 11.07 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historic volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Both the free shares and the equity-settled options are equity-settled plans and the fair value is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the cash-settled options is measured at the date of grant and at each reporting date until the liability is settled, using binomial models, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
At 31 December 2009 the provision held for cash settled awards was US$44 million 2008 US$6 million refer to note 32.
Directors service contracts Options were granted to two executive Directors pursuant to the terms on which they were recruited.
The options are to be equity-settled.
The exercise price is the share price at the date of granting of the share options.
The final scheme vested in January 2007 and each scheme has an exercise period of seven years.
If the holder ceases to be employed by the Group for any reason, they may exercise any vested options within six months of such cessation, after which the options lapse.
Any unvested options will lapse if the holder is dismissed lawfully under the terms of their contract or if they voluntarily resign except where they have a valid reason to terminate their employment as defined in their employment contract, in which case all unvested options shall immediately vest and become exercisable for a period of six months.
In all other cases, they will remain exercisable for a period of six months.
The movement in the number of share options is as follows: 2009 2009 2008 2008 No WAEP No WAEP 1 Outstanding as at 1 January 993,994 GBP4.03 1,142,492 GBP4.25 Granted through rights issue 781,916 GBP2.28 N A 3 2 Exercised during the year 1,755,910 GBP2.28 148,498 GBP5.68 Outstanding as at 31 December 993,994 GBP4.03 Exercisable at 31 December 993,994 GBP4.03 1 The weighted average share price after applying the Rights Issue adjustment factor of 0.57 was GBP2.28.
2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP41.57.
3 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options was GBP10.20.
The above share options have not been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002 and have not been subsequently modified.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2008 was 4.2 years.
No new shares were granted during the year.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of 2008 was GBP3.84 to GBP4.22.
Deferred bonus As detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 127, the maximum bonus payable under the Bonus Plan for Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee is 300% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in three tranches as follows: the maximum bonus, which any one participant is eligible to receive in cash, will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary: any additional bonus up to a further 100% of base salary will be deferred for a period of one year: and any remaining bonus will be deferred for a period of two years.
194 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Employee benefits continued The deferred elements will take the form of awards of Xstrata shares conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
The number of shares awarded will be determined by reference to the market value of the shares at the date concurrent awards under the LTIP are made.
The deferred elements have been treated as an equity-settled share-based payment in accordance with IFRS 2.
In 2005 the Xstrata Remuneration Committee resolved that during the bonus deferral period dividend equivalents would accrue in relation to the deferral, to be delivered at the end of the deferral period and subject to the deferral award vesting.
As dividend equivalents are receivable on the deferred amounts, the fair value of the deferral is technically equal to the value of the bonuses deferred.
The following deferred bonus awards have been made: 2009 2008 2007 Market value of deferred bonus award US$m 10 10 16 Number of shares purchased 521,098 2,191,681 242,702 Chief Executives Added Value Plan AVP The AVP is a long-term incentive and retention plan for the Chief Executive which rewards outperformance in creating additional long-term shareholder value over the value created by Xstrata plcs peer companies and aligns interests with shareholders by means of share ownership by the Chief Executive.
Performance is assessed over periods of three years and five years from the grant date of each cycle and is based upon the growth in the Companys TSR over the relevant performance period relative to an index of global mining companies, which form the Xstrata TSR Index.
A description of the performance requirements and the vesting schedule of the plan are detailed within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 127.
The first cycle of the AVP began on 9 May 2005, the second on 10 March 2006, the third on 15 March 2007, the fourth on 26 March 2008 and the fifth began on 17 April 2009.
No further awards will be granted subsequent to 9 May 2010.
For the 2009 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 17 April 2009 was US$21.7 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$8.73 post rights issue.
For the 2008 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 26 March 2008 was US$76.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$70.50.
For the 2007 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 15 March 2007 was US$45.2 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$46.77.
For the 2006 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 10 March 2006 was US$18.6 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.3% and the share price at the measurement date was US$29.39.
For the 2005 plan cycle, the market capitalisation on 9 May 2005 was US$11.4 billion, the Participation Percentage was equal to 0.5% and the share price at the measurement date was US$18.00.
In May 2009, 25% of the deferred interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle was cash-settled as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 127.
The remaining 25% of the interim award of the 2005 AVP cycle was deferred for two years from the date of the award and its value moves in accordance with the Companys share price.
At 31 December 2009, the fair value of this deferred award was US$21 million 2008 US$13 million.
The fair value of all awards, which are accounted for as cash settled share-based payments to reflect the expected form of settlement, has been estimated in accordance with IFRS 2 using a Monte Carlo simulation model to incorporate the market-based features of the plan.
The following table presents the fair value of each cycle of the award at grant date and the value of the unvested portion of each cycle if conditions that existed at 31 December 2009 are those at the time of vesting.
Estimated Value of unvested award based Plan cycle fair value on conditions at 31 December US$m Grant date at grant date 2009 2008 2005 9 May 2005 7 21 13 2006 10 March 2006 7 2007 15 March 2007 19 2008 26 March 2008 120 2009 17 April 2009 135 61 n a This amount represents the value of the award if it had vested as at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008.
In accordance with IFRS 2 as it applies to cash settled share-based payments, a provision was recognised based on the fair value of each cycle adjusted for the vesting period yet to lapse using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
This model determined the fair value of each cycle at 31 December 2009 to estimate the final performance of the Group and its performance relative to its peers.
Any ultimate payments may vary significantly from the estimated fair values determined at 31 December 2009 as a result of differences between the estimated outcomes determined by the simulation model and the actual outcomes.
At 31 December 2009 the total provision held for the AVP was US$180 million 2008 US$10 million comprising US$19 million for the 2005 plan 2008 US$10 million, US$8 million for the 2008 plan 2008 US$nil and US$153 million for the 2009 plan refer to note 32.
The increase in the provision during the year reflects the comparative rate of outperformance of the Company in the 2009 year against the peer group, to which the design of the plan gives additional weighting when that group itself is rising and the resulting impact on the fair value as determined by the simulation model.
The ultimate value of each cycle will reflect its intrinsic value at the date of vesting which depends on relative outperformance over the cycle as a whole.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 195 The following table lists the inputs to the models used to measure the fair value of the AVP award granted: 2009 2008 Xstrata Share Xstrata Share 1 1 Xstrata plc Indices Xstrata plc Indices 2 2 Dividend yield % N A N A N A N A 3 Expected volatility to interim vesting % 76 53 40 31 3 Expected volatility to final vesting % 62 43 37 28 Risk-free interest rate to interim vesting % 2.4 2.4 4.1 4.1 Risk-free interest rate to final vesting % 2.6 2.6 4.2 4.2 Third anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2012 17 April 2012 26 March 2011 26 March 2011 Fourth anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2013 17 April 2013 26 March 2012 26 March 2012 Fifth anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2014 17 April 2014 26 March 2013 26 March 2013 Sixth anniversary of start of cycle 17 April 2015 17 April 2015 26 March 2014 26 March 2014 1 There are two Xstrata Share Indices used within the valuation model: one is a market capitalisation weighted TSR index comprising 16 global mining firms 2008: 14 global mining firms considered to be Xstratas key competitors for both financial and human capital.
The other is a market capitalisation price index comprising the same global mining firm constituents.
2 When simulating the Xstrata Price Index, a dividend yield is included to account for the suppressing impact that a dividend payment has on the constituent share prices.
For the simulation of Xstrata's TSR and the Index TSR a dividend yield is not required as TSR comprises share price growth and dividend distributions which are assumed to be reinvested into the shares.
3 Volatility is calculated using daily historic share price data over the period up to the measurement date which is equal in length to the expected remaining life of the award.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The net expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December: US$m 2009 2008 Defined benefit pension plans 68 39 Defined contribution pension plans 81 109 Post-retirement medical plans 29 40 178 188 Defined Contribution Pension Plans The Group participates in a number of defined contribution pension plans and industry-wide schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The assets are held separately from those of the Group and are generally invested with insurance companies and regulated by local legislation.
Post-retirement Medical Plans The Group participates in a number of post-retirement medical benefits.
All material post-retirement medical benefit liabilities are in North America with smaller exposures in South Africa.
Independent qualified actuaries assess the accumulated benefit obligation and annual cost of accrued benefits using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2009.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Group contributes to defined benefit pension plans for a number of its employees.
Independent professionally qualified actuaries assess the pension costs and funding of these plans using the projected unit method.
All significant pension assets and liabilities are in North America.
The following tables summarise the components of the net expense recognised in cost of sales in the income statement and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans.
The weighted average principal economic assumptions used to determine the actuarial values are as follows: PostPostPension Retirement Pension Retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans 2009 2009 2008 2008 Rate of salary increases 3.3% 3.1% Rate of pension increases 3.5% 2.7% Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 9.3% 9.1% Bonds 4.6% 5.2% Total 6.7% 6.5% Discount rate 6.1% 6.4% 7.3% 7.4% Inflation rate 3.5% 5.5% 2.6% 2.6% Rate of medical cost increases 8.0% 8.0% 196 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Employee benefits continued A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have the following impact: Increase Decrease Increase Decrease US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Effect on the current service cost and interest cost 43 54 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 57 32 38 31 The pension plan mortality rate used at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 was UP-94 for North American pension and post-retirement medical plans.
These rates refer to published projected mortality tables by actuarial bodies in North America and take into account the assumed increases in the life expectancy and are calculated for both current and future pensioners.
There are no significant differences in these rates between schemes.
The average life expectancy in the pension plans was 83 years 2008: 85 years and in the medical plans was 82 years 2008: 82 years as at 31 December 2009.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes and the amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet at 31 December are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Present value of benefit obligations 2,556 444 1,994 345 Assets at fair value 2,145 1,677 Net liability 411 444 317 345 Net liability as at 31 December represented by: Pension deficits provisions 412 444 320 345 Pension assets 1 3 Net liability 411 444 317 345 Historical adjustments are as follows: US$m 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Defined benefit obligation 2,556 1,994 2,721 2,604 106 Plan assets 2,145 1,677 2,495 2,393 85 Net deficit 411 317 226 211 21 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan liabilities 6 74 69 4 8 Experience gain loss adjustments on plan assets 131 480 126 96 4 The reconciliation of the net liability movement during the year in the net pension and post-retirement medical plan liability before allowance of deferred tax are as follows: PostPostPension Retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 Net liability as at 1 January 317 345 226 481 Total benefit expense 68 29 39 40 Actuarial gains losses 86 36 188 76 Employer contributions 109 22 75 22 Translation adjustments 49 56 61 78 Net liability as at 31 December 411 444 317 345 Contributions of US$41 million in 2010, US$93 million in 2011, US$121 million in 2012, US$143 million in 2013 and US$146 million in 2014 are being made in order to eliminate the deficiency in the North America plans.
The total contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in 2010 including these further contributions are US$105 million.
The components of benefit income expense recognised in the income statement during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Service cost 35 2 53 14 Interest cost 144 27 139 26 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 111 153 68 29 39 40 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 197 The components of actuarial gains losses recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Expected return on plan assets net of expected expenses 111 153 Actual return on plan assets 242 327 Actual return less expected return on plan assets 131 480 Actuarial gain loss on obligations 12 74 Change of assumptions 229 36 366 76 86 36 188 76 The cumulative amount of net actuarial losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses is US$272 million 2008 loss US$150 million.
The reconciliation of the present value of benefit obligations and fair value of plan asset movements during the year are as follows: PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement plans medical plans plans medical plans US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Benefit obligation present value as at 1 January 1,994 345 2,721 481 Current service cost 35 2 53 14 Interest cost 144 27 139 26 Employee contributions 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 12 74 Actual benefit payments 160 22 162 22 Change of assumptions 229 36 366 76 Translation adjustments 325 56 466 78 Benefit obligation present value as at 31 December 2,556 444 1,994 345 Plan assets fair value as at 1 January 1,677 2,495 Actual return on plan assets 242 327 Company contributions 109 75 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid from fund 160 162 Translation adjustments 276 405 Plan assets fair value as at 31 December 2,145 1,677 Net liability as at 31 December 411 444 317 345 Net liability as at 1 January 317 345 226 481 The defined benefit obligation present value included above for unfunded pension plans at 31 December 2009 was US$7 million 2008 US$6 million.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of the fair value of total plan assets are as follows: Pension Pension plans plans 2009 2008 Equities 38% 35% Bonds 59% 62% Other 3% 3% Included in equities is US$173 million 2008 US$nil of Xstrata plc shares.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
198 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Related parties Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Principal subsidiaries Xstrata Coal Abelshore Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% AZSA Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Coalex Holdings Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Cook Resources Mining Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Foydell Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Liddell Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Enex Togara Pty Limited Australia Coal project 100% Jonsha Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Oakbridge Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Oceanic Coal Australia Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Ravensworth Operations Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Resource Pacific Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 77.8% Saxonvale Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 78% Tahmoor Coal Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% The Wallerawang Collieries Limited Australia Coal operations 74.1% Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia Coal operations 90% Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia Feasibility projects 100% United Collieries Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Coal Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Corporate Pty Limited Australia Management company 100% Xstrata Coal Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Investments Australia Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia Coal operations 100% Xstrata Mangoola Pty Limited Australia Coal Project 100% Xstrata Rail NSW Pty Limited Australia Rail project 100% Xstrata Newpac Pty Limited Australia Investment company 100% Xstrata Coal Canada Limited Canada Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Donkin Limited Canada Coal project 100% Xstrata Cerrejn Limited Bermuda Coal operations 100% Xstrata Coal South America Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Coal Projects Pty Limited Australia Exploration company 100% Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 100% Tironimus AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Coal Marketing AG Switzerland Marketing & Trading 100% Xstrata Alloys 100% Xstrata South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Holding company, Coal, Chrome, Platinum & Vanadium operations Eland Platinum Holdings Limited South Africa Platinum operation 74% African Carbon Union Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 74% Char Technology Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Fine Carbon Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Carbon Manufacturers Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% African Carbon Producers Pty Limited South Africa Char operation 100% Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 199 Country of % of ordinary shares Name incorporation Principal activities held & voting rights Xstrata Copper Ernest Henry Mining Pty Limited Australia Copper operation 100% Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua Copper operation 50% Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia Copper, Lead and Zinc operations 100% Sagittarius Mines, Inc Philippines Holding company 62.5% Xstrata South America Limited Cayman Holding company 100% Xstrata Tintaya S. A. Peru Holding company 100% Compania Minera Xstrata Lomas Bayas Chile Copper operations 100% Xstrata Inversiones Chile Limitada Chile Holding company 100% Xstrata Copper Chile S. A. Chile Copper smelter 100% Xstrata Commodities Middle East DMCC UAE Marketing 100% Xstrata Holdings Bermuda Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata Investments Antamina Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata El Pachon Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata Recycling Inc. USA Copper recycling 100% Xstrata Nickel Xstrata International Investments Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% Xstrata Nickel International Limited Barbados Nickel feeds acquisition 100% Falconbridge Dominicana C por A Dom.
Republic Ferronickel operation 85% Xstrata Nickel Marketing S. A. Belgium Nickel marketing 100% Xstrata Nikkelverk Aktieselskap AS Norway Nickel refinery 100% Xstrata Nickel International S. A. Belgium Nickel procurement agent 100% Xstrata Nickel Australasia Pty Ltd Australia Nickel operation 100% Xstrata Brasil Exploracao Mineral Ltda Brazil Exploration 100% Koniambo Nickel SAS New Caledonia Ferronickel Project 49% Xstrata Zinc Asturiana fide Zinc SA Spain Zinc smelter 100% Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK Lead smelter 100% McArthur River Mining Pty Limited Australia Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Zinc GmbH Germany Zinc smelter 100% Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology Pty Limited Australia Technology operations 100% MIM Process Technology South Africa Pty Limited South Africa Technology operations 100% Other Xstrata Schweiz AG Switzerland Holding company 100% Xstrata Capital Corporation AVV Aruba Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited UAE Finance company 100% Xstrata Holdings Pty Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Queensland Limited Australia Holding company 100% Xstrata Canada Corporation Canada Copper, Nickel and Zinc operations 100% Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation Canada Finance company 100% Xstrata Finance Canada Limited Canada Finance company 100% Xstrata Projects Pty Limited Australia Exploration 100% Noranda Finance Limited Canada Finance company 100% Noranda Finance Incorporated USA Finance company 100% Xstrata Canada Incorporated Canada Holding company 100% 1184760 Alberta Limited Canada Holding company 100% Alberta Limited Canada Holding company 100% 200 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Related parties continued Principal place of operations country of Name incorporation Principal activities Effective interest held Principal joint ventures Xstrata Coal Bulga Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 68.25% Cerrejn Joint Venture Colombia Coal operations 33.33% Cumnock Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% Donkin Joint Venture Canada Coal project 75% Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa Coal operations 73.99% Foybrook Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Liddell Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 67.5% Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 80% Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Newpac Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 70% Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 55% Rolleston Pentland Wandoan Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 75% Togara North Joint Venture Australia Coal project 33.3% Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 90% United Joint Venture Australia Coal operations 95% Xstrata Alloys Merafe Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Chrome operations 79.5% Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa Platinum operations 37% Ngazana Consortium Pooling and Sharing Venture South Africa Platinum operations 74% Xstrata Copper Antamina Joint Venture Peru Copper & Zinc operations 33.75% Collahuasi Joint Venture Chile Copper operations 44% Xstrata Nickel Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania Nickel project 50% Principal associates Xstrata Alloys Lonmin plc UK Platinum operations 24.9% Xstrata Coal ARM Coal Pty Limited South Africa Coal operations 49% Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited Australia Coal terminal 31% Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia Coal terminal 33% Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa Coal terminal 20.9% Xstrata Zinc Noranda Income Fund Canada Zinc refinery 25% This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to 2 of the 4 Board positions of Minera Alumbrera Limited, including the Chairman as it is the manager of the copper operation.
The Chairman has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the 4 board positions, however, in a limited number of situations the vote must be unanimous, including transactions with related parties.
The Group has fide facto control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of its industry expertise and the ability to control the operating and financing decisions of the Joint Venture.
Directly held by the parent company.
40% held by the parent company.
90% held by the parent company.
The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of these in the above list.
All entities operate mainly in the country of incorporation and these interests are held indirectly by the parent company unless otherwise indicated.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 201 During the year, the Group entered into the following transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties: Glencore Joint venture entities Associates US$m 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Sales 7,688 9,282 407 436 Purchases 537 809 541 334 Treatment and refining charges 344 218 165 201 Treatment and refining revenue 7 1 Agency and other charges 66 99 10 11 Interest and other revenue 3 6 3 Call option premium refer to notes 10 and 24 208 Earnings from other financial assets refer to notes 10 and 24 146 Amounts payable 80 147 531 125 20 1 Amounts receivable 622 247 72 23 Other financial assets refer to note 24 2,424 Includes share of joint ventures.
No provision for doubtful debts has been raised in respect of transactions with related parties.
Included in the transactions with Glencore International AG Glencore are US$1,329 million 2008 US$1,136 million of back-to-back sales whereby the title to the goods has passed to Glencore but they are then on-sold to customers at the same sales price that the Group received.
Amounts payable and receivable, are included in Trade and other receivables refer to note 19 and in Trade and other payables refer to note 27, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
Glencore International AG substantial shareholder As at 31 December 2009, Glencore owned 34.4% 2008: 34.4% of the issued share capital of the Company representing 1,010,403,999 ordinary shares 2008: 336,801,333 ordinary shares.
Chrome Xstrata Alloys entered into a ferrochrome marketing agreement with Glencore on 21 April 1995, appointing Glencore as its exclusive world-wide marketing agent for the sale of Xstrata Alloys entire production of ferrochrome other than ferrochrome sold into the US, Canada and certain Asian countries.
The agreement continues for as long as Xstrata Alloys produces ferrochrome.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to effecting the sale.
Glencore assists Xstrata Alloys in negotiating sales contracts with third parties.
Glencore is entitled to receive an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 0.75% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 60% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to ferrochrome sales.
If at any time Xstrata Alloys notifies Glencore that it is able to find purchasers for its production at prices higher than those generally obtainable by Glencore, Xstrata Alloys may, unless Glencore is able to obtain similar prices, sell its products in the market.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to an agency fee of 3.5% of FOB sales revenue in respect of such sales.
Glencore is also entitled to receive a US$50,000 monthly fee in connection with market analysis and certain administrative tasks it performs for Xstrata Alloys.
Ferrochrome sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
These agreements continue indefinitely, with both parties having the right to terminate the agreement at 12 months notice.
The percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of ferrochrome sold under the distribution agreement is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of ferrochrome sold under the marketing agreement.
Mitsui & Co. Ltd is the appointed distributing agent for ferrochrome sales into China, Japan and South Korea up to a maximum of 105,000 tonnes per annum.
A change in distributing agent for sales into these countries must be done with the consent of Glencore.
Vanadium In December 1997, the Group, entered into a 20-year marketing agreement with Glencore in respect of Rhovans and Vantechs closed in 2004 entire production of vanadium other than vanadium sold into the US and Canada.
Glencore is obliged to use its best endeavours to arrange sales of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium to customers at prevailing market rates subject to initial agreement and approval by Xstrata Alloys prior to affecting the sale.
Xstrata Alloys is obliged to pay to Glencore an agency fee of 3.5% on FOB sales revenues and an additional fee of 1.5% on FOB sales revenues for assuming the risk of non-payment by customers on this material.
Glencore assumes 100% of the risk of non-payment by customers in relation to vanadium sales.
Glencore is nevertheless entitled to the 3.5% agency fees described above in respect of such sales.
202 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Related parties continued Vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold into the US and Canada is distributed by Glencore Ltd and Glencore Canada Inc respectively, under two distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements have the same term as the marketing agreement and consequently, the percentage of distribution fees payable by the Group in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium is substantially the same as the commission paid in respect of vanadium pentoxide and ferrovanadium sold under the marketing agreement.
Coal In 2002, the Group entered into a 20-year market advisory agreement with Glencore with fee reviews at the end of every fifth year of the agreement.
Pursuant to this agreement, Glencore acts as the Groups market advisor with respect to its export production of coal other than for Xstrata Coals share of production from the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
The fee payable to Glencore is US$0.50 per attributable tonne of coal exported by the Group from Australia or South Africa.
The first 5 year fee review has not yet been finalised and both parties are currently operating under the original terms of the agreement.
In 2009, the Group entered into market standard forward commodity price derivatives for 4,455,000 tonnes 2008: 1,965,000 tonnes with Glencore as counterparty.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, 3,180,000 tonnes at an average FOB price of US$71.78 per tonne were delivered 2008: 105,000 tonnes at an average FOB price of US$64.59 per tonne.
At 31 December 2009, 3,195,000 tonnes 2008: 1,920,000 tonnes were contracted with Glencore for delivery in 2010.
These derivatives are on arms length terms and conditions and are included within derivative financial assets and liabilities refer to notes 23, 30 and 37.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, 2,550 tonnes were borrowed from Glencore 2008: 142,414 tonnes and 2,550 tonnes were transferred back to Glencore 2008: 342,620 tonnes with nil tonnes owed to Glencore at 31 December 2009 2008 nil tonnes on arms length terms and conditions.
In 2006, the Group entered into a three-year fuel supply agreement with Glencore to supply diesel fuels to coal mines in New South Wales and Queensland.
Under this supply agreement US$113 million 2008 US$116 million worth of fuel was delivered during the year ended 31 December 2009.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change monthly according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
The contract was due to expire in March 2009, however it has been extended until March 2010 under the same terms.
Xstrata Coal has put forward a global fuel tender, however, negotiations are still ongoing and no contract has yet been entered into.
In 2005 Cerrejn entered into a five-year fuel supply agreement which expires in February 2010 with Glencore to supply diesel fuels.
The Groups share of the fuel purchases for the year ended 31 December 2009 was US$44 million 2008 US$92 million.
The supply agreement is on arms length terms and prices change for each shipment according to the world market price per barrel US$ BBL.
Xstrata Coal South America has also put forward a global tender, however, no contracts have yet been signed.
All coal purchases and sales with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Refer to note 24 for details of the Groups acquisition of the Prodeco coal assets from Glencore.
Copper Xstrata Copper has entered into a service agreement with Glencore for a three-year period effective from 1 January 2007 and evergreen thereafter with a 12-month cancellation notice for the supply of advice, support and assistance with regard to its marketing and operational hedging activities.
Copper cathode sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada Xstrata Copper North Chile Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2009.
All sales are based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Xstrata Copper Minera Alumbrera Limited has entered into a five-year frame contract with Glencore on an evergreen basis.
The sales terms for the copper concentrate are negotiated annually on arm's length terms and conditions.
Minera Alumbrera Limited on occasions sells concentrate to Glencore at prevailing spot market prices.
A copper precipitate purchase agreement was entered into between Xstrata Copper Canada and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2009, at prevailing market terms.
Copper concentrate purchase agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper North Chile and Glencore for a four-year frame contract commencing 1 January 2007.
All purchases are based on benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Copper concentrate sales agreements were entered into between Xstrata Copper Tintaya and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2009.
A copper concentrate sales agreement was entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for a three-year frame contract starting 1 January 2007 at benchmark terms.
Xstrata Commodities Middle East also sells concentrate to Glencore based on a spot basis on occasions throughout the year at prevailing market terms.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 203 Copper concentrate purchase agreements were entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore for the period 1 January to 31 December 2009 at prevailing market terms.
Xstrata Copper North Queensland has entered into a sales agreement with Glencore for copper concentrate for a three-year period effective from 1 June 2008 and evergreen thereafter.
This agreement consists of an annual benchmark and spot component.
A copper anode purchase agreement was entered into between Xstrata Commodities Middle East and Glencore on a spot basis during the year.
A molybdenum concentrate spot sales contract was entered into between Mineral Alumbrera Limited and Glencore in 2009 at market related terms.
All sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
Nickel Xstrata Nickel has entered into a purchase agreement with Glencore for up to 250 wmt per month of copper cobalt white alloy raw material feed to the Nikkelverk refinery in Norway, effective from 1 July 2009.
The contract includes both a metal purchase and a metal return component for copper and cobalt, respectively.
The term of the contract is to the end of 2011, continuing indefinitely thereafter unless terminated by either party with six months notice given not earlier than 1 July 2011.
Pricing terms are based on prevailing market rates.
Treatment, refining and penalty deductions were negotiated on arms length terms and conditions.
This contract replaces white alloy agreements entered into in 2004 that were due to expire at the end of 2009.
Other short-term or one-time feed purchase agreements were entered into with Glencore, with pricing terms based on prevailing market rates.
During 2009, Xstrata Nickel purchased from Glencore 287 tonnes of nickel, 563 tonnes of copper, and 250 tonnes of cobalt 2008: 1 tonne, 74 tonnes, 44 tonnes, respectively.
In addition, during 2009, Xstrata Nickel returned to Glencore 297 tonnes of cobalt 2008: 35 tonnes.
In March 2007, Xstrata Nickel entered into sole distributorship agreements with Glencore, for its nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production.
These agreements continue until 31 December 2012 and are automatically renewed for successive three year periods unless terminated by either party with not less than 12 months notice prior to the end of the original term or any renewal terms, or unless Xstrata Nickel permanently ceases production of these metals.
Xstrata Nickel, at its sole discretion, may cease, suspend or reduce production at any time.
Glencore is obliged to distribute the products with all due care and diligence and shall cultivate and maintain good relations with purchasers and potential purchasers in accordance with sound commercial principles and taking into account Xstrata Nickels business principles.
All sales terms and conditions are set on an arms length basis.
For nickel and cobalt sales, the price basis is the month following the month of delivery.
For ferronickel sales, the price basis is the quotational period provided for in customer contracts.
Accordingly, provisionally priced nickel, cobalt and ferronickel revenues are subject to final price adjustments due to future price changes.
During 2009, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 88,457 tonnes of nickel 2008: 89,567 tonnes, 3,066 tonnes of cobalt 2008: 3,137 tonnes and 236 tonnes of ferronickel 2008: 19,847 tonnes.
In addition, Glencore prepays monthly to Xstrata Nickel in two equal instalments 100% of the value of the months planned production.
The prepayment balance as at 31 December 2009 amounted to US$49 million 2008 US$54 million.
Xstrata Nickel sells refined copper to Glencore on arms length terms and conditions under spot arrangements, which are based on prevailing market rates.
During 2009, Xstrata Nickel sold to Glencore 1,547 tonnes of copper 2008 nil tonnes.
Zinc On 1 January 2007, Xstrata Zinc renewed a service agreement for a period of 3 years with Glencore the Xstrata Zinc Service Agreement, under the terms of which Glencore provides advice and assistance with respect to pricing and structural issues regarding hedging and the optimisation of internal flows of raw materials.
The fees to be paid by Asturiana under the Asturiana Service Agreement are US$2 million per annum.
In 2009, Xstrata Zinc San Juan fide Nieva and Nordenham agreed to supply Glencore with 315,000 tonnes 2008: 210,000 tonnes of SHG zinc slabs or CGG ingots based on market FOB CPT prices plus the respective market premium.
In 2009 Xstrata Zinc McArthur River supplied Glencore with 313,600 wmt of zinc concentrate 2008: 313,600 wmt.
Xstrata Zinc has an agreement to supply 281,600 wmt each year on an evergreen basis.
Treatment charges are negotiated annually on arms length terms and conditions.
Further to the aforementioned agreement, an additional 25,000 wmt of McArthur River zinc concentrates were sold to Glencore on a spot basis.
In 2009 Xstrata Zinc Mt Isa had three agreements with Glencore for the supply of zinc concentrate.
The two agreements are evergreen in nature.
The first agreement is to supply 90,000 wmt per annum.
The second agreement is to supply up to 330,000 wmt per annum for the purpose of swapping Mt Isa concentrate in exchange for the same volume to be delivered to Xstratas European smelters at equivalent terms.
Further to the aforementioned two agreements, an additional 100,000 wmt of Mt Isa concentrates were sold to Glencore on a spot basis.
During 2009, Xstrata Zinc Canada has made agreements to supply Glencore with approximately 77,700 tonnes of SHG zinc.
Of this approximately 63,700 tonnes were SHG zinc slabs, and the balance SHG zinc jumbos.
Furthermore, during 2009 Xstrata Zinc Canada made agreements to supply Glencore with approximately 33,000 tonnes of corroding grade lead metal.
All agreements are based on market delivery duty paid plus the respective market premium.
During 2009, Xstrata Zinc Canada arranged the sale to Glencore of approximately 380,000 dry metric tonnes of zinc and bulk concentrates from various sources, as well as the purchase from Glencore of approximately 15,000 dry metric tonnes of lead concentrate, at terms prevailing in the market.
All purchase and sales transactions with Glencore are on arms length terms and conditions.
204 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 36.
Related parties continued Technology In 2006, Xstrata Technology was contracted to install a copper ISASMELT furnace, a lead ISASMELT furnace and an IsaProcess copper refinery at Kazzinc, a Glencore subsidiary for US$99 million.
The project commenced in May 2006 and will be commissioned in 2010.
This transaction with Kazzinc is on arms length terms and conditions.
Associates Platinum The Group acquired 24.9% of Lonmin PLC shares on 6 Oct 2008 and equity accounts this investment as an associate.
During 2009, a net impairment of US$241 million 2008 US$34 million was taken on this investment directly to the income statement.
Coal Xstrata Coal has a number of investments in export coal terminals allowing it to export coal into overseas markets.
Xstrata Coal South Africa holds a 20.9% 2008: 20.9% interest in Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Ltd RBCT, a company that operates the coal terminal in Richards Bay, South Africa.
Xstrata Coal South Africa reimburses RBCT for its share of operating and capital expenditure.
Xstrata Coal Australia has a 33% 2008: 35.6% interest in Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited and a 31% 2008: 31% interest in Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Limited.
Xstrata Coal Australia reimburses these coal terminals for its share of coal loading and handling charges.
Zinc The Group has a 25% economic and voting interest in the Noranda Income Fund NIF, which owns a zinc refinery in , Quebec.
The Groups interest in the NIF are held as ordinary units of the partnership, which are subordinate to the priority units in respect of cash distributions in any month until 3 May 2017.
In addition, the Group has entered into a supply and processing agreement that continues until 2 May 2017 and is obligated to sell to the NIF up to 550,000 tonnes of zinc concentrate per year.
The NIF pays the Group a concentrate price, based on the price of zinc metal on the London Metal Exchange, for the payable zinc metal contained in the concentrate less a processing fee of US$0.33311 per pound 2008 US$0.35205 per pound of such payable zinc metal at 31 December 2009.
Joint venture entities Coal 1 Xstrata Coal has a 33 3% interest in the Cerrejn thermal coal operation in Colombia.
All purchase terms and conditions are set on an arms length basis.
Copper Xstrata Copper has a 44% interest in the Collahuasi joint venture in Chile.
The Collahuasi joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 160,000 dmt per year expiring in 2009 and for 120,000 dmt per year expiring in 2014.
The treatment and refining charges are based on benchmark terms in accordance with the prevailing market.
In addition, Xstrata Copper, via its 44% equity share in Collahuasi, purchases 44% of the uncommitted copper concentrates production in each calendar year.
These tonnes are purchased from Collahuasi in line with prevailing benchmark terms.
Xstrata Copper has a 33.75% interest in the Antamina joint venture in Peru.
The Antamina joint venture has fixed term contracts for the sale of copper concentrate to Xstrata Copper for 170,000 dmt per year expiring in 2013.
In addition, Xstrata Copper, via its 33.75% equity share in Antamina, purchases 37.5% of the uncommitted copper concentrates production in each calendar year.
These tonnes are purchased from Antamina in line with prevailing benchmark terms.
All other purchases between the joint venture entities and the Group are set on an arms length basis based on either spot or benchmark terms in accordance with prevailing market conditions.
Remuneration of key management personnel of the Group US$m 2009 2008 Wages and salaries 31 10 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs 6 7 Share-based compensation plans 249 48 286 31 Includes amounts paid to Directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 124 to 127.
Amounts are based on the income statement expense credit for the year calculated in accordance with IFRS 2.
Directors loans An interest free short-term loan of US$3 million was provided to the Chief Executive in accordance with the Groups policy to cover periods where employees of the Group are exposed to overlapping periods of double taxation due to the requirement of working in multiple jurisdictions.
The terms of the loan agreement require repayment of the loan amount on realisation of the foreign taxation credit claimed.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 205 37.
Financial instruments Principles of risk management The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Treasury Committee, which operates as a subcommittee of the Executive Committee.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the recommendation of policies to manage financial instrument risks.
These recommendations are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and implemented by the Groups Treasury Department.
The overall objective of the Treasury Committee is to effectively manage credit risk, liquidity risk and other market risks in accordance with the Groups strategy.
Other responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include management of the Groups cash resources and debt funding programmes, approval of counter-parties and relevant transaction limits and the monitoring of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Group uses both conventional financial instruments and derivative financial instruments to manage these risks.
The Groups Treasury Department prepares monthly treasury reports which monitor all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies.
The report also benchmarks significant treasury activities and monitors key banking loan covenants to ensure continued compliance.
The Treasury Committee and Executive Committee review these reports to monitor the financial instrument risks of the Group and to ensure compliance with established Group policies and procedures.
The Groups significant financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise bank loans and overdrafts, convertible borrowings, capital market notes, finance leases, hire purchase contracts, cash and short-term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups acquisitions and ongoing operations.
The Group has various other financial assets and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
Derivative transactions are entered into solely to hedge risks and hedge accounting under IAS 39 is only applied when certain criteria have been met.
Market fluctuations in derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are used to offset the fluctuations in the underlying exposure.
The Group does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 6. Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits and similar assets are with approved counter party banks and other financial institutions.
Counter-parties are assessed both prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the geographical industry spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
Past the due date but not impaired Neither impaired nor Between Between Between past the Less than 30 and 91 and 181 and More than US$m due date 30 days 90 days 180 days 365 days 1 year Total Trade debtors: 2009 2,6071444942142,856 2008 1,0391471258771,405 The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis by the Credit Department.
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of high credit quality.
There were no material impairments of trade debtors as at 31 December 2009 or 2008.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
No collateral is held in respect of impaired assets or assets that are past due but not impaired.
Details of guarantees material to the Group are outlined in note 34.
Where concentrations of credit risk exist, management closely monitors the receivable and ensures appropriate controls are in place to ensure recovery.
A portion of the Groups revenues are generated from sales to Glencore, a related party.
These sales are governed by various sales, marketing and distribution agreements as outlined in note 36.
In general, Glencore act as a sales and marketing agent, on-selling purchases from the Group to a wide variety of purchasers.
As these agreements have been in place for a number of years and the Group has not been exposed to significant unrecoverable amounts, the Group does not believe these arrangements expose it to unacceptable credit risks.
Credit risk is minimal and not concentrated for other financial assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to the total carrying value of financial assets on the balance sheet as at the reporting date, being an amount of US$9,020 million 2008 US$4,373 million.
The Group does not have netting agreements with any debtors.
206 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to settle or meet its obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
The Groups Treasury Department is responsible for management of liquidity risk, including funding, settlements, related processes and policies.
The Group manages its liquidity risk on a consolidated basis utilising various sources of finance to maintain flexibility while ensuring access to cost-effective funds when required.
The operational, tax, capital and regulatory requirements and obligations of the Group are considered in the management of liquidity risk.
In addition, management utilise both shortand long-term cash flow forecasts and other consolidated financial information to manage liquidity risk.
The Groups Treasury Department monitors the Groups long-term credit ratings from major ratings agencies including Standard & Poors and Moodys when assessing the ongoing credit worthiness of the Group.
At 31 December 2009, the Group had long-term credit ratings of BBB negative outlook from Standard & Poors 2008 BBB negative outlook and Baa2 negative outlook from Moodys 2008 Baa2 negative outlook and A low from DBRS 2008 A low.
The ratings agencies consider a number of qualitative measurements when assessing the credit-worthiness of a company.
These include an assessment of the quality of assets and management, attitudes to risk, industry type and the performance of a company in relation to its peers.
They also examine a number of financial ratios such as leverage, debt to operating cash flow, interest coverage, total liabilities to total assets and return on invested capital.
The Groups Treasury Department continuously monitors the Groups performance relative to these ratios as a guide to the ongoing credit-worthiness of the Group.
The Group has various borrowing facilities available to it.
This ensures flexibility to minimise liquidity risk and ensure the ongoing solvency of the Group.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2009 in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date are as follows: Available undrawn borrowing facilities and maturity: US$m 2009 2008 Expiring in: Less than 1 year 55 280 Between 2 to 3 years 6,299 Between 3 to 4 years 2,647 6,354 2,927 The following tables show the Groups contractually agreed undiscounted forecast cash flows from interest payments and the repayments of financial liabilities, including derivative financial liabilities.
Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2009 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 206 2,375 5,441 21 17 5,398 13,458 Convertible borrowings 335 335 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 757 707 546 351 337 1,934 4,632 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,697 570 4,267 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 52 235 54 216 557 Due within Due between Due between Due between Due between Due after US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2008 Non-derivative financial liabilities: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 794 69 4,169 6,747 4 5,348 17,131 Convertible borrowings 331 331 Interest payments on loans and borrowings 975 946 928 493 334 2,098 5,774 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,233 712 3,945 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives contracts net payments 202 213 24 332 771 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 207 All instruments held at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 and for which payments were already contractually agreed are included.
Amounts in foreign currency are each translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
The variable interest payments arising from the financial instruments were calculated using interest rates as at reporting date.
Financial liabilities that can be repaid at any time are always assigned to the earliest possible time period.
Future forecast transactions or transactions subsequent to year end are not included.
Market risk analysis IFRS 7 requires sensitivity analyses that show the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant market risk variables on the Groups profit and shareholders equity.
The periodic effects are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date.
The Groups primary market exposures are to interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk primarily as a result of exposures to movements in the LIBOR.
It is the Groups preference to borrow and invest at floating rates of interest, notwithstanding that some borrowings are at fixed rates.
In addition, a limited amount of fixed rate hedging may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant.
In keeping with the Groups preference to borrow at floating rates of interest, the following interest rate swap contracts were outstanding at 31 December 2009 and 2008 Principal Average Fair Principal Average Fair amount rate % value amount rate % value US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 At fair value: Interest rate swap from US$ fixed rates: Maturing between 1 to 2 years 2,255 2.01 137 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 925 1.75 90 2,224 2.80 147 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 925 3.04 85 Maturing greater than 5 years 4,099 2.42 380 4,099 3.66 495 Interest rate swap to US$ fixed rates: Maturing between 2 to 3 years 100 4.54 7 100 4.54 8 7,379 2.24 600 7,348 3.33 719 Relates to the Unsecured notes and Senior debentures refer to note 28.
208 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Financial instruments continued The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2009 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2009 Fixed rate by balance sheet category Cash and cash equivalents 262 262 Capital market notes 14 2,293 1,360 5,271 8,938 Non-controlling interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 335 335 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 28 29 2 2 2 27 90 Other loans 106 106 220 2,322 1,443 2 2 5,739 9,288 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 1 27 101 129 CAD 1 1 1 1 16 20 CLP 12 12 EUR 1,133 782 1,729 3,644 GBP 10 845 835 US$ 200 1,161 660 1 1 3,038 4,661 ZAR 1 10 11 220 2,322 1,443 2 2 5,739 9,288 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 869 869 Capital market notes 82 82 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 3,840 3,840 Bank loans other unsecured 47 35 139 221 Bank overdrafts 11 11 Non-controlling interest loans 5 5 724 35 3,979 3,290 Floating rate by currency: AUD 168 168 ARS 16 16 CAD 6 6 CLP 17 17 EUR 21 21 GBP 1 1 NOK 2 2 US$ 424 34 3,979 3,589 ZAR 65 1 64 Other 4 4 724 35 3,979 3,290 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 209 The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2008 was as follows: Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due Falling due within between between between between more than US$m 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years 2008 Fixed rate by balance sheet category Cash and cash equivalents 222 222 Capital market notes 14 14 2,305 1,342 5,253 8,928 Non-controlling interest loans 81 81 Convertible borrowings 331 331 Finance leases hire purchase contracts 26 14 29 2 3 36 110 Preference shares 64 64 Other loans 58 58 118 28 2,334 1,425 3 5,678 9,350 Fixed rate by currency: AUD 9 9 26 1 1 75 121 CAD 65 1 1 1 4 72 EUR 1,096 755 1,656 3,507 US$ 192 18 1,210 668 1 3,161 4,866 GBP 774 774 ZAR 1 1 8 10 118 28 2,334 1,425 3 5,678 9,350 Floating rate by balance sheet category: Cash and cash equivalents 885 885 Capital market notes 579 579 Syndicated bank loans unsecured 1,791 5,182 6,973 Bank loans other unsecured 83 41 42 139 305 Bank overdrafts 11 11 Non-controlling interest loans 17 17 195 41 1,833 5,321 7,000 Floating rate by currency: AUD 32 32 CAD 12 12 EUR 13 13 US$ 89 41 1,833 5,321 7,106 ZAR 46 46 GBP 3 3 PEN 1 1 CLP 11 11 NOK 8 8 JPY 1 1 Other 3 3 195 41 1,833 5,321 7,000 These borrowings are subject to interest rate swaps.
The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates and re-priced at least annually.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest-bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
FRS 7 requires interest rate sensitivity analysis that shows the effects of changes in market interest rates on the income statement and, if appropriate, shareholders equity.
The interest rate sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions: For non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms, a change in market interest rates only affects income if these are measured at their fair value.
Consequently, all non-derivative financial instruments with fixed interest rate terms that are carried at amortised cost are excluded from this analysis with the exception of those subject to a fixed to floating rate swap refer below : Items subject to an effective fixed to floating interest rate swap hedge are assumed to be floating instruments for the purpose of this analysis: For floating rate instruments, income statement impacts assume adjustments to interest income and expense for a 12-month period: The Group does not have significant cash flow hedges related to interest rate risk.
As such, movements that would occur in equity as a result of a hypothetical change in interest rates at reporting date have been excluded from this analysis: 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Financial instruments continued Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: The Group does not have material exposure to interest rate risk from available-for-sale financial instruments.
As such, these financial instruments have been excluded from this analysis: The balance of interest-bearing financial instruments at reporting date is representative of the balance for the year as a whole and hypothetical interest rate movements are deemed to apply for the entire reporting period: and The impact of interest rate movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
If the market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower at 31 December 2009 income would have been US$106 million 2008 US$140 million lower higher.
There would be no material effect on equity reserves other than those relating directly to movements in the income statement.
Foreign currency risk Owing to the Groups significant operations in Australia, North America, South America, South Africa and Europe, the balance sheet and results can be affected significantly by movements in exchange rates.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates provides a degree of natural protection however in the short-term it can be quite volatile.
The presentation currency of the Group is the US$.
Foreign currency hedges Group subsidiaries located in Australia and Canada have entered into AUD US$ and CAD US$ exchange contracts to hedge a portion of their US$ denominated revenue and third-party loans.
The Group also enters into forward contracts to hedge specific one-off foreign currency transactions.
The open foreign currency exchange contracts as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges : Contract Average Contract Average amount forward rate Fair value amount forward rate Fair value US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 1,250 0.8250 100 123 0.7351 2 1,250 0.8250 100 123 0.7351 2 Forward contracts sell US$ buy EUR: Maturing between 1 to 2 years 1,174 1.5650 100 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 675 1.3500 41 1,174 1.5650 126 Maturing between 3 to 4 years 675 1.3500 24 Maturing after 5 years 1,614 1.4673 39 1,614 1.4673 78 3,463 1.4776 98 3,463 1.4776 180 Forward contracts sell US$ buy GBP: Maturing after 5 years 985 1.9700 176 985 1.9700 255 985 1.9700 176 985 1.9700 255 Forward contracts sell US$ buy ZAR: Maturing in less than 1 year 543 8.1681 44 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 20 8.5978 2 563 8.1834 46 Relates to the Unsecured notes refer to note 28.
The timing of hedged cash flows is expected to coincide with the maturities of the hedging instruments to which they relate.
An Australian subsidiary has designated its US$ denominated capital market notes as a fair value hedge of an investment in a US$ denominated South American operation refer to note 28.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 211 Classified as other derivatives: Contract Average Contract Average amount forward rate Fair value amount forward rate Fair value US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Forward contracts sell CAD buy US$: Maturing between 1 to 2 years 300 1.5350 135 Maturing between 2 to 3 years 300 1.5350 79 300 1.5350 135 300 1.5350 79 Forward contracts sell US$ buy CAD: Maturing in less than 1 year 1,172 1.0585 14 1,291 1.0387 113 1,172 1.0585 14 1,291 1.0387 113 Forward contracts sell US$ buy ZAR: Maturing in less than 1 year 116 10.50 8 Maturing between 1 to 2 years 11 10.80 127 10.53 8 Forward contracts sell US$ buy AUD: Maturing in less than 1 year 10 0.7816 1 10 0.7816 1 For the purpose of IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis currency risks arises because financial instruments are denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint venture.
The movements shown below largely result from trade payables and receivables that are not denominated in the local entitys functional currency.
Trade payable and receivables generally arise as a result of the operations of the Group in the ordinary course of business.
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on the following assumptions: Differences resulting from the translation of financial statements of subsidiaries or joint ventures into the Groups presentation currency, US$, are not taken into consideration: The major currency exposures for the Group relate to the US$ and local currencies of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Foreign currency exposures between two currencies where one is not the US$ are deemed insignificant to the Group and have therefore been excluded from the sensitivity analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement: and The impact of foreign currency movements on the carrying value of pension obligations has been excluded.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of foreign currencies has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in foreign currency exchange rates over the course of a period of time.
If the US$ had gained lost 5% against all currencies significant to the Group the impact would have been: Effect on net Effect on Closing Effect on net Effect on Closing earnings of a equity of a exchange earnings of a equity of a exchange rate 5% change 5% change rate 5% change 5% change Local currency to the US$ 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 US$:ARS 3.7990 3.4538 3 AUD:US$ 0.8974 16 6 0.7048 25 6 US$:CAD 1.0533 3 1.2205 22 US$:CLP 507.45 637.25 3 US$:COP 2,043.00 2,248.70 EUR:US$ 1.4327 6 1.3974 6 GBP:US$ 1.6173 1 1.4628 US$:PEN 2.8870 3.1345 1 US$:ZAR 7.3890 7 4 9.3212 45 Total 13 10 47 6 212 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Financial instruments continued Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in commodity prices, with the commodity mix spread between those which are priced by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets and those that are set on a contract basis with customers, generally on an annual basis.
Commodity price risks arise in all major commodities that the Group produces.
Commodity price risk is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities and typically does not involve large-scale strategic hedging or price management initiatives.
Due to the volatile nature of commodity prices and the historical relationship between prices and the currencies of most of the countries where the Group operates, hedging may be entered into only in limited circumstances and subject to strict limits laid down by the Board of Directors.
Commodity hedging The Australian and Americas operations have gold forwards and collars to hedge prices of future sales.
The Australian and South African operations have entered into coal forwards to hedge prices of future sales of coal.
The open forwards and collars commodity contracts as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: Classified as cash flow hedges: Average Fair value Average Fair value Ounces price US$ US$m Ounces price US$ US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Cash flow hedges: Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 76,600 743.53 27 76,600 743.53 27 Gold collars US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 125,000 495640 32 125,000 495640 32 Average Fair value Average Fair value Tonnes price US$ US$m Tonnes price US$ US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: FOB Maturing in less than 1 year 5,640,000 75.92 36 2,220,000 74.62 6 5,640,000 75.92 36 2,220,000 74.62 6 Coal forwards US$ denominated contracts: CIF Maturing in less than 1 year 315,000 71.80 6 315,000 71.80 6 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 14,9506,674 10 14,9506,674 10 The maturities of these hedges reflect the expected timing of cash flows related to these instruments.
Classified as other commodity derivatives: Average Fair value Average Fair value Tonnes price US$ US$m Tonnes price US$ US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Copper forwards US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 21,775 3,397.31 8 21,775 3,397.31 8 Average Fair value Average Fair value Ounces price US$ US$m Ounces price US$ US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Gold forwards AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 11,200 774.42 3 11,200 774.42 3 Gold options US$ denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 25,000 495640 6 25,000 495640 6 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 213 Average Average forward Fair value forward Fair value Ounces rate % US$m Ounces rate % US$m 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Gold swaps AUD denominated contracts: Maturing in less than 1 year 10,600 1.5 10,600 1.5 The IFRS 7 sensitivity analysis below has been prepared using the following assumptions: This analysis only takes into account commodities for which the Group has significant exposure: Fixed price sale and purchases contracts will not fluctuate with movements in commodity prices and are therefore excluded from this analysis: Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be fully effective hedges and therefore any movements in carrying value are captured within equity and have no impact on the income statement analysis: Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are assumed to be fully effective with no impact on the income statement or equity: and Changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not in hedging relationships are assumed to impact the income statement.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
If prices for all commodities for which the Group has significant exposure had been 10% higher lower at 31 December 2009, income would have been US$128 million higher lower 2008 US$89 million higher lower and equity reserves would have been US$79 million lower higher 2008 US$26 million lower higher as a result of changes to reserves for commodity cash flow hedges.
There would be no other material changes in reserves of the Group as at 31 December 2009 or 2008 other than those relating directly to income statement movements.
Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying value and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are not carried at fair value in the financial statements at 31 December: Carrying Carrying value Fair value value Fair value US$m 2009 2009 2008 2008 Financial liabilities: Capital market notes 9,021 9,023 9,426 9,439 Convertible borrowings 335 332 331 327 Non-controlling interest loans 86 91 98 99 Finance leases 181 181 110 110 Preference shares 64 64 Other loans 111 112 63 63 Market rates at 31 December 2009 have been used to determine the fair value of fixed interest loans.
The fair value of the liability portion of the convertible bonds are estimated using an equivalent market interest rate of a similar liability that does not have a conversion option as at the origination of the bond refer to note 28.
The following table shows the carrying amounts as at 31 December for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2009 2008 Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 1,177 1,156 Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss 540 42 Loans and receivables 6,082 2,211 Available-for-sale financial assets 364 161 Derivative financial assets 857 803 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 17,905 21,073 Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit and loss 155 334 Derivative financial liabilities 557 771 214 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Financial instruments continued The following table shows the gains losses for each category of financial assets and liabilities as required by IFRS 7: US$m 2009 2008 Financial assets: Available-for-sale financial assets gains losses recognised in equity 209 114 Available-for-sale financial assets loss recognised in the income statement 1 1 Derivative financial instruments gains losses recognised in equity 456 157 Derivative financial instruments gains losses recognised in the income statement 269 321 Interest revenues and expenses are not included in the calculation of the gains losses of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group uses various valuation techniques in determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities.
The following fair value hierarchy is used to categorise and disclose the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value for which a valuation technique is used: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The below table presents financial assets measured at fair value: US$m 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Foreign currency cash flow hedges 228 228 Fair value interest rate swap 566 566 Other interest rate derivatives 48 48 Other foreign currency derivatives 15 15 Shares listed 216 216 Shares unlisted 4 4 Rehabilitation trust fund 77 77 Other financial assets 37 37 The below table presents financial liabilities measured at fair value: US$m 2009 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Commodity cash flow hedges 52 52 Foreign currency cash flow hedge 356 356 Other interest rate swaps 14 14 Other foreign currency derivatives 135 135 Loans from joint venture parties 155 155
