SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered office Dividend reinvestment plan 6 Carlton Gardens The Company offers holders of its ordinary shares the option to elect London SW1Y 5AD to have their dividend reinvested in shares purchased in the market United Kingdom instead of cash.
If you would like to make this election, please Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 request a dividend reinvestment plan mandate from our registrars: Company website: www.
com Equiniti Financial Services Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing Registered in England and Wales, No.
1470151 West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars United Kingdom Equiniti Limited 0140 Telephone: 0871 384 2268 Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a West Sussex BN99 6DA BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Lines are United Kingdom open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Telephone: 0871 384 2044 Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 Calls to the above number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Lines are ShareGift open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares which may Telephone number from outside the UK: 44 121 415 7058 be uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are available from If you have any queries regarding your shareholding, please contact ShareGift at www.
org or by telephone on 020 7930 3737. the registrars.
Share price information Dividend mandate The middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on Shareholders can arrange to have their dividends paid directly into 31 December 2009 was 359.5p and the range during the year their bank or building society account, by completing a bank mandate was 306p to 408.25p.
The advantages to using this service are: American Depositary Receipts the payment is more secure than having a cheque sent by post: The BAE Systems plc American Depositary Receipts ADRs are traded on the Over The Counter market OTC under the symbol it avoids the hassle of paying in a cheque: and BAESY.
One ADR represents four BAE Systems plc ordinary shares.
there is no risk of lost, stolen or out of date cheques.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary.
A mandate form can be obtained from our website, by contacting If you should have any queries, please contact: Equiniti, or you will find one attached to the tax voucher of your last dividend payment.
Overseas shareholders can arrange for their JPMorgan Chase & Co dividends to be paid in their local currency and more information PO Box 64504 can be obtained from www.
com overseas St Paul MN 55164-0504 Shareview service USA The Shareview service from our registrar, Equiniti, gives shareholders: Email: jpmorgan.
com direct access to data held on their behalf on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details: and Telephone number for general queries: 800 990 1135 Telephone number from outside the US: 1 651 453 2128 the ability to change their address or dividend payment instructions online.
com To sign up for Shareview you need the shareholder reference Electronic shareholder communications printed on your proxy form or dividend stationery.
There is no charge Following approval of a resolution by shareholders at our 2007 to register.
Annual General Meeting, the Company has been authorised to use electronic communications when sending information to our When you register with the site, you can register your preferred shareholders, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Using format post or e-mail for shareholder communications.
If you select electronic communications helps us reduce the environmental e-mail as your mailing preference, you will be sent shareholder impact of our business by limiting the amount of paper we use communications, such as proxy forms and annual results, by e-mail and assists us in managing our costs.
We periodically consult instead of post, as long as this option is available.
with shareholders to check how they wish to receive information If you have your dividends paid straight to your bank account, and from us and a shareholder is taken to have agreed to website you have selected e-mail as your mailing preference, you can also communications if a response has not been received.
collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead of receiving the paper Any document or information required to be sent to shareholders tax voucher, you will be notified by e-mail with details of how to is made available on the Companys website and a notification of download your electronic version.
Shareholders who receive such a notification are However, if you choose post as your preference, you will be sent entitled to request a hard copy of the document at any time and may paper documents as usual.
also change the way they receive communications at any time by contacting Equiniti.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website.
