DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION Principal activities Treasury shares The BAE Systems Group delivers, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries No treasury shares were acquired by the Company during 2009. and equity accounted investments, a full range of products and services As at 1 January 2009, the number of shares held in treasury totalled for air, land and naval forces, as well as advanced electronics, security, 55,038,953 having a total nominal value of 1,375,974 and information technology solutions and customer support services.
representing 1.54% of the Companys called up share capital at 1 January 2009.
During 2009, the Company used 11,086,593 treasury Directors shares having a total nominal value of 277,165 and representing The current directors who served during the 2009 financial year are 0.31% of the Companys called up share capital at 31 December 2009 listed on pages 76 and 77.
Of those directors, Paul Anderson was to satisfy awards under the Free and Matching elements of the Share appointed to the Board on 8 October 2009 and Linda Hudson on Incentive Plan and options under the Save-As-You-Earn Share Option 26 October 2009.
Walt Havenstein served as a director during the period Scheme.
Of the 7,791,629 treasury shares utilised in respect of the up to his resignation from the Board on 21 June 2009.
Sir Nigel Rudd Share Incentive Plan, the 4,783,293 treasury shares used in respect of also served as a director throughout the period up to his retirement from the Free Shares element of the Plan were disposed of by the Company for the Board on 31 December 2009.
In addition, Nick Rose was appointed nil consideration, whilst the 3,008,336 treasury shares used in respect to the Board on 8 February 2010. of the Matching Shares element were disposed of by the Company for a Dividend total consideration of 10,338,290.
The 3,294,964 treasury shares An interim dividend of 6.4p per share was paid on 30 November 2009. utilised under the Save-As-You-Earn Option Scheme were disposed The directors propose a final dividend of 9.6p per ordinary share.
Subject of by the Company for a total consideration of 5,140,144.
As at to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2010 31 December 2009, the number of shares held in treasury totalled to shareholders on the share register on 23 April 2010.
43,952,360 having a total nominal value of 1,098,809 and representing 1.23% of the Companys called up share capital at Annual General Meeting AGM 31 December 2009.
The Companys AGM will be held on 5 May 2010.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this Annual Report and details the The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with the Companies resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Acts and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to these shares are automatically suspended.
Ofce of Fair Trading undertakings As a consequence of the merger between British Aerospace and the Rights and obligations of ordinary shares former Marconi Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the Company On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary shares gave certain undertakings to the Secretary of State for Trade and present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote Industry now the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills.
and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled In February 2007, the Company was released from the majority of these to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Subject to the undertakings and the remainder have been superseded and varied by a relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, new set of undertakings.
Compliance with the undertakings is monitored holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or by a compliance officer.
Further information regarding the undertakings paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Subject to the relevant and the contact details of the compliance officer may be obtained statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, on a through the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office or return of capital on a winding-up, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, through the Companys website.
after repayment of the 1 Special Share, to participate in such a return.
There are no redemption rights in relation to the ordinary shares.
Supplier payment policy It is Group policy that suppliers should be paid in accordance with the Rights and obligations of the Special Share payment terms and conditions stated in the applicable purchase order.
The Special Share is held on behalf of the Secretary of State for In the UK, the Group is a signatory to the governments Prompt Payment Business, Innovation and Skills the Special Shareholder.
Certain Code, under which it has undertaken to pay suppliers on time, give clear provisions of the Companys Articles of Association cannot be amended guidance on payment procedures and encourage the adoption of the without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These provisions include code throughout its supply chain.
the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, the The average number of days credit provided in 2009 by suppliers was requirement that the majority of the directors are British, the requirement 31 days 2008 34 days.
that decisions of the directors at their meetings, in their committees Charitable donations or via resolution must be approved by a majority of British directors During 2009, the amount donated for charitable purposes in the UK and the requirement that the chief executive and any executive was 1.6m 2008 3.4m.
Further details of the Companys charitable chairman are British.
activities are set out on page 44.
The holder of the Special Share is entitled to attend a general meeting, Political donations but the Special Share carries no right to vote or any other rights at any No political donations were made in 2009. such meeting, other than to speak in relation to any business in respect of the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and Issued share capital the Companys Articles of Association, on a return of capital on a As at 31 December 2009, BAE Systems issued share capital of winding-up, the Special Share shall be entitled to repayment of the 89,614,347 comprised 3,584,573,848 ordinary shares of 2.5p each 1 capital paid up on the Special Share in priority to any repayment of and one Special Share of 1. capital to any other members.
As agreed by the shareholders at the 2009 AGM, the Companys Articles The holder of the Special Share has the right to require the Company to of Association were amended with effect from 1 October 2009 to remove redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into one the requirement for the Company to have an authorised share capital, the concept of which was abolished under the Companies Act 2006. ordinary share at any time.
com Restrictions on transfer of securities Restrictions on voting deadlines The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote the Special Share may only be issued to, held by and transferred to the in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
Special Shareholder or his successor or nominee: The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each the directors shall not register any allotment or transfer of any shares resolution are publicised on the Companys website after the meeting.
to a foreign person, or foreign persons acting in concert, who at the Appointment and replacement of directors time have more than a 15% voting interest in the Company, or who Subject to certain nationality requirements mentioned below, the would, following such allotment or transfer, have such an interest: Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be a director.
the directors shall not register any person as a holder of any shares The majority of directors holding office must be British.
Otherwise the unless they have received: i a declaration stating that upon directors who are not British shall vacate office in such order that those registration, the share s will not be held by foreign persons or that who have been in office for the shortest period since their appointment upon registration the share s will be held by a foreign person or persons: ii such evidence if any as the directors may require of the shall vacate their office first, unless all of the directors otherwise agree authority of the signatory of the declaration: and iii such evidence or among themselves.
Any director who holds the office of either chairman information if any as to the matters referred to in the declaration as in an executive capacity or chief executive shall also be British.
the directors consider appropriate: The Company must have six directors holding office at all times.
If the the directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register any number is reduced to below six, then such number of persons shall be transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to prevent appointed as directors as soon as is reasonably practicable to reinstate dealings in listed shares from taking place : the number of directors to six.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time vary the minimum number of directors.
the directors may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class At each AGM of the Company, any director who was elected or last reof share and it is lodged at the place where the register of members is elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the kept, accompanied by a relevant certificate or such other evidence as then current calendar year must retire by rotation and such further the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor directors must retire by rotation so that in total one-third of the directors to make the transfer: retire by rotation each year.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
the directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association in favour of more than four persons jointly: The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special where a shareholder has failed to provide the Company with certain resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class rights are information relating to their interest in shares, the directors can, in varied, such amendments must be approved by the members of each certain circumstances, refuse to register a transfer of such shares: class of shares separately.
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and In addition, certain provisions of the Articles of Association cannot regulations for example, insider trading laws : be amended without the consent of the Special Shareholder.
These provisions include the requirement that no foreign person, or foreign restrictions may be imposed pursuant to the Listing Rules of the persons acting in concert, can have more than a 15% voting interest Financial Services Authority whereby certain of the Groups employees in the Company, the requirement that the majority of the directors are require the Companys approval to deal in shares: and British, the requirement that decisions of the directors at their meetings, awards of shares made under the Companys share incentive plan in their committees or via resolution must be approved by a majority of are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
British directors and the requirement that the chief executive and any executive chairman are British.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares At the 2010 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders and or voting rights.
proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association primarily significant direct and indirect holders of securities in order to incorporate a small number of provisions in the Companies As at 17 February 2010, the Company had been advised of the following Act 2006. significant direct and indirect interests in the issued ordinary share Powers of the directors capital of the Company: The directors are responsible for the management of the business Name of shareholder Percentage notified of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.05% subject to applicable legislation and regulation, and the Articles of Association.
Barclays PLC 3.98% BlackRock, Inc 7.52% At the 2009 AGM, the directors were given the power to buy back a Invesco Ltd 5.08% maximum number of 352,791,045 ordinary shares at a minimum price Franklin Resources Inc, and affiliates 4.92% of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary Legal & General Group Plc 3.96% shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased.
This power will expire at The Trustees of the employee trusts do not seek to exercise voting rights the earlier of the conclusion of the 2010 AGM or 30 June 2010.
A special on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the resolution will be proposed at the 2010 AGM to renew the Companys underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights are exercised in relation to authority to acquire its own shares.
shares unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 113 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED At the 2009 AGM, the directors were given the power to issue new Change of control significant agreements shares up to a nominal amount of 29,396,313.
This power will expire The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the on the earlier of the conclusion of the 2010 AGM or 30 June 2010. counterparties to exercise termination, alteration or other similar rights Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the 2010 AGM to renew in the event of a change of control of the Company: the Companys authority to issue further new shares.
At the 2009 AGM, The Group has entered into a 1.5bn subsequently reduced to the directors were also given the power to issue new issue shares up to 1.455bn Revolving Credit Facility dated 1 February 2005 as a further nominal amount of 29,396,313 in connection with an offer amended and a 500m Letter of Credit Facility dated 27 March 2006, by way of a rights issue.
This authority too will expire on the earlier of which provide that, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the conclusion of the 2010 AGM or 30 June 2010, and a resolution the lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, or if no agreement is will be proposed at the 2010 AGM to renew this additional authority.
reached on negotiated terms within a certain period, to call for the Conicts of interest repayment or cancellation of the facilities.
The Revolving Credit Facility As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles was undrawn as at 31 December 2009. of Association contain provisions which enable the Board to authorise The Company has entered into a Restated and Amended Shareholders conflicts or potential conflicts that individual directors may have.
Agreement with European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company To avoid potential conflicts of interest the Board requires the EADS N. V. EADS and Finmeccanica S. p. A Finmeccanica relating to Nominations Committee to check that any individuals it nominates MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 as amended.
In the event for appointment to the Board are free of potential conflicts.
In addition, that control of the Company passes to certain specified third party the Boards procedures and the induction programme for new directors acquirors, the agreement allows EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise emphasise a directors personal responsibility for complying with the an option to terminate certain executive management level nomination duties relating to conflicts of interest.
The procedure adopted by the and voting rights and certain shareholder information rights of the Board for the authorisation of conflicts reminds directors of the need to Company in relation to the MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise consider their duties as directors and not grant an authorisation unless of this option, the Company would have the right to require the other they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the shareholders to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair market value.
As required by law, the potentially conflicted The Company and EADS have agreed that if Finmeccanica acquires a director cannot vote on an authorisation resolution or be counted in the controlling interest in the Company, EADS will increase its shareholding quorum.
Any authorisation granted may be terminated at any time and in MBDA to 50% by purchasing the appropriate number of shares in the director is informed of the obligation to inform the Company without MBDA at fair market value.
delay should there be any material change in the nature of the conflict or The Company, BAE Systems North America Inc. now BAE Systems, potential conflict so authorised.
The Nominations Committee has been Inc. and BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into a Special Security asked to review on an annual basis any authorisations granted and to Agreement dated 29 November 2000 with the US Department of make recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
Defense regarding the management of BAE Systems, Inc. in order to Directors indemnities comply with the US governments national security requirements.
In The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with all its current the event of a change of control of the Company, the Agreement may directors and those persons who were directors for any part of 2009 be terminated or altered by the US Department of Defense.
which are qualifying indemnity provisions for the purpose of the In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited now BAE Systems Surface Companies Act 2006.
Ships Limited and the UK MoD entered into a definitive Terms of The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds Trustees Limited, Business Agreement TOBA which sets out a 15-year partnering BAE Systems 2000 Pension Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems arrangement, including lead roles for the BVT business on defined Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited and Alvis Pension surface shipbuilding and support programmes.
Where the MoD Scheme Trustees Limited benefit from indemnities in the governing considers that a proposed Change in Control of BAE Systems Surface documentation of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme, the BAE Systems Ships Limited would be contrary to the defence, national security or 2000 Pension Plan, the BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme and national interest of the UK, then the Change in Control shall not the Alvis Pension Scheme, respectively, which are qualifying indemnity proceed until agreement with the MoD is established.
In the event provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006. that there is a Change in Control of BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited notwithstanding the objection of the MoD on such grounds, the MoD All such indemnity provisions are in force as at the date of this shall be entitled to terminate the TOBA immediately without Directors report.
In addition, the Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors for the Company, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
com Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements Annual Report and financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, and Each of the directors listed below confirms that to the best of the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance their knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial performance of the business, and the position of the Company and the statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial Dick Olver Chairman statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Ian King Chief Executive of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company, and of their Linda Hudson Chief Operating Officer, President and profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. company financial statements, the directors are required to: George Rose Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Paul Anderson Non-executive director make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Phil Carroll Non-executive director for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Michael Hartnall Non-executive director prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Andy Inglis Non-executive director Sir Peter Mason Non-executive director for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material Roberto Quarta Non-executive director departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial Nick Rose Non-executive director statements: and Carl Symon Non-executive director prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Ravi Uppal Non-executive director it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
On behalf of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys David Parkes Company Secretary transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 17 February 2010 financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 115 2334 BAE Annual Report p116 p117:Layout 1 11 3 10 23:55 Page 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
FinancialStatements    Independent auditors report 119 Consolidated financial statements 120 Notes to the Group accounts 124 Company balance sheet 171 Notes to the Company accounts 172 Five-year summary 180 Shareholder information 182 Financial calendar 183 Glossary 184 116 www.
com 2334 BAE Annual Report p116 p117:Layout 1 11 3 10 23:55 Page 117 F-35 STATIC TESTING BAE Systems brings military aircraft expertise that is critical to the F-35 Lightning II airframe and systems.
The Structural and Dynamic Test Facility is BAE Systems centre of excellence for structural testing, responsible for providing evidence that airframes meet the design requirements for structural strength and durability.
117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEX TO THE ACCOUNTS Note Page Note Page Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc 119 Index to the Group accounts Index to the Company accounts Accounting policies 1 124 Accounting policies 1 172 Acquisition of subsidiaries 29 163 Company balance sheet 171 Changes in accounting policies 2 129 Contingent liabilities and commitments 9 177 Consolidated balance sheet 122Creditors 7 176 Consolidated cash flow statement 123Debtors 4 175 Consolidated income statement 120 Employee share schemes 11 178 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 121 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 3 174 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 121 Loans and overdrafts 6 176 Contingent liabilities and commitments 23 156 Other financial assets and liabilities 5 175 Disposals 9 139 Other information 14 179 Dividends 28 162 Provisions for liabilities and charges 8 177 Earnings per share 10 139Reserves 12 179 Employees and directors 7 135 Share capital 10 177 Equity accounted investments 14 144 Statutory reserve 13 179 Events after the balance sheet date 33 170 Tangible fixed assets 2 174 Finance costs 6 134 Financial risk management 30 167 Five-year summary 180 Group entities 32 170 Intangible assets 11 140 Inventories 18 147 Investment property 13 143 Loans and overdrafts 19 148 Net cash as defined by the Group 27 162 Operating costs 4 133 Other financial assets and liabilities 17 147 Other income 5 134 Other investments 15 145 Property, plant and equipment 12 142 Provisions 22 155 Reconciliation of operating business cash flow 26 161 Related party transactions 31 170 Retirement benefit obligations 21 150 Segmental analysis 3 130 Share-based payments 25 158 Share capital and other reserves 24 157 Tax 8 136 Trade and other payables 20 149 Trade and other receivables 16 146 118 www.
