CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Property revenue consists of gross rental income calculated on an accruals basis, together with sales and services as principal in the ordinary course of business, excluding sales of investment properties.
Rental income receivable in the period from lease commencement to lease expiry is spread evenly over that period.
Any incentive for lessees to enter into a lease agreement is spread over the same period.
Contingent rents, being those lease payments that are not fixed at the inception of a lease, for example increases arising on rent reviews, are recorded as income in the periods in which they are earned.
Rent reviews are recognised as income, based on estimates, when it is reasonable to assure they will be received.
Where revenue is obtained by the sale of properties, it is recognised when the significant risks and returns have been transferred to the buyer.
This will normally take place on exchange of contracts unless there are conditions attached.
For conditional exchanges, sales are recognised when these conditions are satisfied.
Income taxes Current tax is the amount payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment in respect of prior years.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the amounts used in computation of taxable profit, with the exception of deferred tax on revaluation surpluses where the tax basis used is the accounts historic cost.
Temporary differences are not provided on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that management believe it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle them on a net basis.
Tax is included in the income statement except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case related tax is also recognised in equity.
