CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies Accounting convention and basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The financial statements have been prepared in Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Group.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of properties, available for sale investments, financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
The Groups business activities have been affected by the adverse UK financial and economic background.
A description of the impact and the factors likely to affect the Groups future development, performance and position are set out in the Review of Business and Future Developments on pages 1 to 8.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, debt structure, borrowing facilities and principal financial risks are described in the Review of Business and Future Developments on pages 1 to 8.
In addition note 20 to these financial statements includes the Groups financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: its exposures to liquidity risk and details of its capital structure.
The directors have undertaken a review of the projected financial position of the company and the Group, which includes reasonable assumptions about future trading and cash flows.
This review included an assessment of cash balances, the debt maturity profile following renegotiation of the Lakeside facility in January 2010, the economic conditions faced by tenants and the financial position of the Groups parent company, Liberty International PLC.
The directors believe the company and the Group are able to manage the business risks they face despite the conditions in the UK commercial property market.
The directors have therefore concluded, based on cash flow projections taking account of the factors listed above, that there is a reasonable expectation that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
18 CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Accounting convention and basis of preparation continued The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Where such judgements are made they are included within the accounting policies below.
The accounting policies used are consistent with those applied in the last annual financial statements, as amended to reflect the adoption of new standards, amendments, revisions and interpretations which became effective in the year.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised IFRS 2 Share-based Payment amendment IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendment IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 40 Investment Property revised These pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only.
In respect of IAS 23, the Groups existing accounting policy was to capitalise borrowing costs, therefore this revision had no accounting impact for the Group.
The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the year end 31 December 2009 and have not been adopted early: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendment IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised IAS 36 Impairment of Assets amendment IAS 38 Intangible Assets amendment IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment amendment IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations amendment IFRIC 17 Distribution of Non-cash Assets to Owners These pronouncements are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements, but will result in changes to presentation or disclosure where they are applicable.
