CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation These accounts include the consolidation of The MetroCentre Partnership, The Victoria Centre Partnership, The Chapelfield Partnership, The Potteries Shopping Centre Limited Partnership, The Westgate Partnership, Xscape Braehead Partnership and St. Davids Limited Partnership.
The members of these qualifying partnerships have taken advantage of the exemptions in the Statutory Instrument 1993 1820.
The consolidated financial information includes financial information in respect of the company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities in which the Group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies, whether through a majority of the voting rights or otherwise.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a lineby-line basis.
Investment and development property Investment and development properties are owned or leased by the Group and held for long-term rental income and capital appreciation.
The Group has elected to use the fair value model.
Properties are initially recognised at cost and subsequently revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers on the basis of market value.
The valuation conforms with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS th Valuation Standards 6 Edition and IVS1 of International Valuation Standards and was arrived at by reference to market transactions for similar properties.
The main assumptions underlying the valuations are in relation to market rent, taking into account forecast growth rates and yields based on known transactions for similar properties and likely incentives offered to tenants.
Property held under leases is stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
The cost of development properties includes capitalised interest and other directly attributable outgoings, except in the case of properties and land where no development is imminent, in which case no interest is included.
Interest is capitalised before tax relief, on the basis of the average rate of interest paid on the relevant debt outstanding, until the date of practical completion.
When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value and is not reclassified Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are recognised in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
Depreciation is not provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of development property are dealt with in reserves to the extent that fair value exceeds cost and are otherwise recognised in the income statement.
Upon completion, development property to be held for long-term rental income and capital appreciation is transferred to investment property.
