CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 20.
Financial risk management continued The approximate impact of a 50 basis point shift upwards in the level of interest rates would be a positive movement of 87.9 million 2008 59.8 million in the fair value of derivatives.
The approximate impact of a 50 basis point shift downwards in the level of interest rates would be a negative movement of 92.3 million 2008 61.7 million in the fair value of derivatives.
In practice, a parallel shift in the yield curve is highly unlikely.
However, the above sensitivity analysis is a reasonable illustration of the possible effect from the changes in slope and shifts in the yield curve that may actually occur.
Because the fixed rate derivative financial instruments are matched by shortterm floating rate debt, the overall effect on Group cash flow of such a movement would be very small.
Movements in the fair value of derivatives are dealt with in the income statement.
b Market price risk The financial results are subject to movements in the value of underlying investment properties.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed to ensure that the Group is able to meet future payment obligations when financial liabilities fall due.
Liquidity analysis is conducted to ensure that sufficient headroom is available to meet the Groups operational requirements and committed investments.
The Group treasury policy also includes maintaining adequate cash and marketable securities, as well as maintaining adequate committed facilities.
The Groups policy is to seek to optimise its exposure to liquidity risk by balancing its exposure to interest risk and to refinancing risk.
In effect the Group seeks to borrow for as long as possible at the lowest acceptable cost.
At 31 December 2009, the maturity profile of Group debt showed an average maturity of six years 2008 six years.
The Group regularly reviews the maturity profile of its financial liabilities and seeks to avoid bunching of maturities through the regular replacement of facilities and by using a selection of maturity dates.
Re-financing risk may be reduced by re-borrowing prior to the contracted maturity date, effectively switching liquidity risk for market risk.
The Group will often pre-fund capital expenditure by arranging facilities or raising debt in the capital markets and then placing surplus funds on deposit until required for the project.
Efficient treasury management and strict credit control minimise the costs and risk associated with this policy which ensures that funds are available to meet commitments as they fall due.
38 CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 20.
Financial risk management continued The tables below set out the maturity analysis of the Groups financial liabilities based on the undiscounted contractual obligations to make payments of interest and to repay principal.
Where interest payment obligations are based on a floating rate the rates used are those implied by the par yield curve.
