CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Investment and development property continued When the use of a property changes from that of trading to investment, that property is transferred at fair value, with any resulting gain being recognised as property trading profit.
Investments in Group undertakings Investments in Group undertakings include equity and debt instruments.
Investments are reviewed annually for impairment.
Where there exists an indication of impairment an assessment of the recoverable amount is performed.
The recoverable amount is based on the higher of the investments continued value in use or its fair value less costs to sell: fair value is derived from the subsidiaries net asset value at the balance sheet date.
Leases Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are normally classified as operating leases.
Group as lessee: Finance leases of investment property are accounted for as finance leases and recognised as an asset and an obligation to pay future minimum lease payments.
The investment property asset is included in the balance sheet at fair value, gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant financing rate.
Other finance-leased assets are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as lessor: Properties leased out under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant rate of return on the net investment.
Properties leased out under operating leases are included in investment property, with rental income recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Trading properties Trading property comprises those properties that in managements view are expected to be disposed within one year of the balance sheet date.
Such properties are transferred from investment and development property at fair value which forms their deemed cost.
Subsequently it is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits with banks, whether restricted or unrestricted and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
