qxd 24 7 09 1:36 pm Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 i Investment property IFRS defines Investment Properties as those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
Investment Properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuation firms having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent relevant experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolio annually at the Companys year end.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The Groups investment properties were valued as set out in note 8 on page 37.
The valuations are prepared either by considering the aggregate of the net annual rent receivable from the properties using a market yield which reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flow which is then applied to the net annual rents to arrive at the property valuation, or on a sales comparison basis.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property remains an investment property, which is measured based on the fair value model.
A property interest under an operating lease is classified and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis when the Group holds it to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Any such property interest under an operating lease classified as an investment property is carried at fair value.
When the Group uses only part of a property it owns and retains the remainder to generate rental income or capital appreciation the extent of the Groups utilisation is considered to determine the classification of the property.
If the Groups utilisation is less than five per cent.
this is regarded as immaterial such that the whole property is classified as an investment property and stated at fair value.
Acquisition and disposals are recognised on the date of completion.
It is Group policy to sell, as individual units, flats in residential blocks which have been held as investment but which are now considered uneconomic to retain.
Occasionally there are sales of residential and commercial investment blocks.
The resulting surplus based on the excess sale proceeds over valuation is included in the Income Statement and taxation applicable thereto is shown as part of the taxation charge.
j Other non-current investments Other non-current investments are classified as available for sale investments and are stated at fair value with any resultant gain or loss recognised through reserves.
k Investments Investments comprise equity securities held for trading and classified as current assets stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the Income Statement.
l Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently carried at cost less impairment losses.
These assets are not discounted as it is deemed immaterial.
