qxd 24 7 09 1:36 pm Page 29 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 23 July 2009. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 48 to 51. b Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments, investment properties, other non-current investments and current asset investments.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Standards which have been issued and adopted in the year have had no material impact on the financial statements.
The financial statements disclose a loss for the year in the income statement of 178.7 million, which is principally caused by the valuation losses on the groups investment properties.
This is reflective of the recent difficulties in UK and US property markets.
Despite this result, the directors consider that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The level of net gearing at 31 March 2009 was only 16 per cent.
which is very low for the property sector, and only 6.3 million of the groups borrowings are due for repayment within the next 12 months.
As demonstrated by the groups cash flow statement, the group generated positive net cash from operating activities of 13.4 million 2008: 8.6 million and the directors fully expect this position to continue.
On this basis, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
The Directors are aware of the following standards in issue but not effective at the balance sheet date: IFRS 8 Operating Segments, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, Segmental Reporting and requires that segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal management reporting.
The directors are assessing the expected impact in detail but it appears unlikely that this will have a significant impact on the Groups disclosures.
IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of Financial Statements, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Board will prepare accounts under the revised disclosure requirements of this standard for the period commencing 1 April 2009.
