qxd 24 7 09 1:36 pm Page 32 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued m Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Bank overdrafts have therefore been included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows.
n Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
o Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at their amortised cost.
p Net rental income Net rental income comprises rent and service charges receivable less applicable provisions and costs associated with the properties.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Service charge income is recognised as the services are provided.
Net rental income is stated net of VAT.
The cost of repairs is written off to the Income Statement in the year in which the expenditure occurred.
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
q Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the Income Statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established which in the case of quoted securities is the ex-dividend date.
r Taxation Corporation tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Corporation tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax liability relates to estimated capital gains on the sale of investment properties not taking account of indexation.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
