qxd 24 7 09 1:36 pm Page 33 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 s Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular business segment or geographic location, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
t Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property see accounting policy i and deferred tax assets see accounting policy r, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated to first reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to cash generating units group of units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro rata basis.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups investments in held-to-maturity securities and receivables is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversal of impairment An impairment loss in respect of a receivable is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
u Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the Page 33
