qxd 24 7 09 1:36 pm Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Other standards are in issue, however these are not expected to have a material impact on the results of the Group.
These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of IFRSs in issue that are effective at the Groups annual reporting date.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for purposes of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements includes the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
e Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
f Income available for distribution Under the Articles of Association of certain Group investment undertakings, realised capital surpluses are not available for distribution as dividends.
g Foreign currency translation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange difference arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
h Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk arising from operational and financing activities.
As the derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would recover or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
