Financial statements Accounting policies for the year ended 30 June 2009 Basis of preparation and at the date of approval of the financial statements the Groups These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months International Accounting Standards Board IASB, International from the date of signing the financial statements.
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations as As noted in note 36, on 23 September 2009, the Company entered adopted and endorsed by the European Union EU and with those into an agreement with UBS Limited, Credit Suisse Securities Europe parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and under IFRS and therefore the Group financial statements comply with RBS Hoare Govett Limited to fully underwrite a 720.5m equity issue, Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
to be structured as a Placing and a Rights Issue, to strengthen the Groups The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost balance sheet and reduce its financial indebtedness.
In conjunction convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial with the Placing and Rights Issue, the Company has negotiated assets, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
certain amendments to the terms of the Groups existing financing A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set arrangements.
The amended financing arrangements will only come out below.
into effect if a minimum of 450m total gross proceeds are raised pursuant to the Placing and Rights Issue and, before 31 December The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 2009, the Company reduces its borrowings under the Wilson Bowden accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and acquisition facilities and the Groups private placement notes by 40% assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities such that the total amount of indebtedness thereunder does not at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of exceed 900m excluding any indebtedness under make-whole notes revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these that are issued as a consequence of the prepayment.
The Company estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, has put in place arrangements to effect such prepayments following it actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most becoming entitled to the net proceeds of the Placing and Rights Issue.
significant estimates made by the Directors in these financial Upon such prepayments being made, 50m of undrawn commitments statements are set out in Critical accounting judgements and key under both of its Revolving Credit Facilities will automatically be sources of estimation uncertainty.
cancelled so that they do not exceed 700m.
The Directors expect the amended financing arrangements will enable the Group to take Going concern advantage of opportunities that may arise in a recovering market, In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial as well as to provide an appropriate alternative framework, should statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group a further downturn arise.
can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Completion of the Placing and Rights Issue is conditional upon The Groups business activities, together with factors which the shareholder approval at the General Meeting scheduled to be held on Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial 19 October 2009, listing of the shares to be issued pursuant to the performance and financial position are set out in the Group Chief Placing and Rights Issue and upon the underwriting agreement not Executives statement on pages 4 to 8 and the Business review on being terminated in accordance with its terms prior to the General pages 9 and 11.
The material financial and operational risks and Meeting.
If the Placing and Rights Issue do not proceed the amended uncertainties that may impact the Groups performance and their financing arrangements will not come into effect.
Until such time as any mitigation are outlined on pages 18 and 19 and financial risks including subsequent renegotiation is concluded, the existing financing liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note arrangements will continue to apply.
While the existing financing 26 to the financial statements.
arrangements apply, if conditions in the wider UK economy, as they relate to the housebuilding sector, were to decline below that which has The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider been assumed in the Groups forecasts during the current financial year economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in and notwithstanding further management actions to both conserve the Principal risks on pages 18 and 19, factors that particularly impact and generate cash, including, if necessary, by making land sales then upon the performance of the Group include changes in the there is a risk that the Group might generate lower than anticipated macroeconomic environment including buyer confidence, availability of revenues, or cash, or require further write-downs in the value of the mortgage finance for our purchasers, and interest rates.
This risk may result in the Group being unable to 2009, the net debt position of the Group as shown in note 24 to the comply with its existing covenant package during the current financial financial statements was 1,276.9m, with loans and borrowings of year.
If the amended financing arrangements do not come into effect, 1,484.1m with headroom of 800.0m to the Groups committed the Group will need to renegotiate the terms of its existing financing facilities.
The Group remains in compliance with its financial covenants arrangements during the current financial year in order to secure the 58 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial statements | Accounting policies revolving credit facilities of an appropriate duration so as to give the phased out by IFRS by 2013 and to bring the Group in line with Directors increased confidence that they will be able to prepare the prevailing practice in the UK.
accounts in respect of such a period on a going concern basis and also to secure a covenant package across all its financing The change in accounting policy has been recognised retrospectively arrangements that provides greater flexibility.
and the 2008 comparatives have been adjusted.
The retrospective adjustments had an impact on the Group balance sheet and the The above risks, that the amended financing arrangements do not Group statement of recognised income and expense but not on become effective because the conditions to the Placing and Rights the consolidated income statement or Group cash flow statement Issue are not satisfied, and that whilst the existing financial covenants as follows: remain in place the impact of a decline in the housebuilding sector may Year ended At result in the Group not being able to comply with such covenants, 30 June 2008 1 July 2007 represent a material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt about Group balance sheet m m the Groups ability to continue as a going concern such that the Group Retirement benefit obligations 33.5 13.4 may be unable to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the Deferred tax liabilities 9.4 3.8 normal course of business.
Non-current liabilities 24.1 9.6 Nevertheless, based upon the Groups expectation that the conditions Equity to the Placing and the Rights Issue will be satisfied, in addition to the Retained profits at the start of the year 9.6 9.6 Groups current trading, forecasts, and the further management actions Increase in retained earnings 14.5 which could be taken whilst the existing financial covenants remain in Equity 24.1 9.6 place referred to above, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have Group statement of formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial recognised income and expense m statements upon a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial Cumulative actuarial gains on defined benefit statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the pension schemes 20.1 going concern basis of preparation is inappropriate.
Tax on items taken directly to equity 5.6 Net gain recognised directly in equity 14.5 Adoption of new and revised standards In the year ended 30 June 2009, the Group has adopted: As a result, the Groups retirement benefit obligation decreased by Amendment to IAS39 and IFRS7 Reclassification of Financial 33.5m from 70.7m to 37.2m at 30 June 2008 and its deferred tax Instruments: liability increased by 9.4m from 22.7m to 32.1m.
IFRIC12 Service Concession Agreements: and IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the Parent The adoption of these interpretations and amendments to standards Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
has not had any impact upon the profit or net assets of the Group in The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated either the current or comparative year and has not required any from the date when control passes to the Group using the purchase additional disclosures.
method of accounting and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and inter-company profits or Changes in accounting policies defined benefit losses are eliminated on consolidation.
pension scheme During the fourth quarter, as a consequence of the Group curtailing its Business combinations defined benefit pension scheme during the year ended 30 June 2009, All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including the Group changed its accounting policy for the recognition of actuarial contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded gains and losses related to post-employment benefits for defined at their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the benefit pension schemes.
The Group elected to voluntarily change its resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control accounting policy from the corridor approach under which actuarial of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
gains and losses greater than 10% of the future obligation were recognised in the income statement over the average remaining working lives of the employees to immediate recognition of actuarial gains and losses in shareholders equity in the period in which they arise.
This change in policy was also considered appropriate with consideration to the expectation that the corridor method will be Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59 Financial statements | Accounting policies Jointly controlled entities Exceptional items A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds an interest Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature are with one or more other parties where a contractual arrangement has presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
The Directors established joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are are of the opinion that the separate presentation of exceptional items accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
provides helpful information about the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give rise to the Jointly controlled operations classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring of existing The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its and newly-acquired businesses, gains or losses on the disposal housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share of businesses or individual assets, pension scheme curtailments of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled and asset impairments, including land, work in progress, goodwill operations are accounted for on a direct basis and are included in the and investments.
The Groups share of its investments, assets and liabilities are accounted for on a directly proportional basis Restructuring costs in the Group balance sheet.
Restructuring costs are recognised in the income statement when the Group has a detailed plan that has been communicated to the affected Revenue parties.
A liability is accrued for unpaid restructuring costs.
Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total proceeds of building and development, and an appropriate proportion Profit loss from operations of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to Profit loss from operations includes all of the revenue and costs the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured at derived from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit loss from the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents operations excludes finance costs, finance income, the Groups the amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The share of profits or losses from joint ventures and tax.
sale proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
Dividends Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements at the time outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
that they are paid, and final dividends are recognised at the time of agreement by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Construction contracts Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the The Company recognises dividends from subsidiaries at the time that outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims arising in they are received.
respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue and costs are Segmental reporting recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity The Group consists of two separate segments for management at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of reporting and control purposes, being housebuilding and commercial work performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction developments.
The Group manages these segments separately due contracts when they have been specifically negotiated for the to the different operational and commercial risks that they face.
construction of a development or property.
When it is probable that These segments therefore comprise the primary reporting segments the total costs on a construction contract will exceed total contract within the financial statements.
As all of the Groups operations are revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense in the income within the United Kingdom, which is one economic environment in the statement immediately.
context of the Groups activities, there are no geographic segments to be disclosed.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less Goodwill any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net on construction contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction Goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and contracts are included in trade payables.
businesses is capitalised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
60 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial statements | Accounting policies For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each Inventories of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
synergies of the combination at acquisition.
Cash-generating units to Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour costs and those which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at least overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories annually.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less to their present location and condition.
than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit Land held for development, including land in the course of development, and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is purchase credit terms, the fair value differs from the amount that will recognised immediately in the income statement and is not ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as subsequently reversed.
a finance cost in the income statement over the period of settlement.
Intangible assets Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to Brands allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
In making these assessments there is a degree Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
The Group has developed internal controls Where a brand is considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over its to assess and review carrying-values and the appropriateness of useful life on a straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised with an estimates made.
indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that result in the durability of brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, regulatory, Leases as lessee contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement in equal life of these intangible assets.
instalments over the life of the lease.
The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite life Leases as lessor brands by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties following factor based upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost the completion of constructed developments until the date of the sale of capital.
of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis Investments over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the provision for impairment.
leased asset and recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of subsidiary undertakings by the Parent Company, they are treated as Share-based payments a capital contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based in the subsidiary is increased accordingly.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS2 Share-based Payments has been applied to all Property, plant and equipment grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated vested at 1 January 2005. depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis to Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either using Black-Scholes, and asset lives are reviewed annually.
Present-Economic Value models or Monte Carlo models dependent upon the characteristics of the scheme.
The fair value is expensed in Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, 25 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated on based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest where a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from non-market vesting conditions apply.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61 Financial statements | Accounting policies Cash-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the outside profit or loss and presented in the statement of recognised date of grant and are re-measured both at the end of each reporting income and expense.
period and at the date of settlement with any changes in fair value being recognised in the income statement for the period.
Fair value Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the is measured initially and at the end of each reporting period using benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straighta Black-Scholes model and at the date of settlement as cash paid.
line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Tax The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as deferred tax.
adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that Borrowing costs are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is The Group does not capitalise borrowing costs and expenses them calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively in the period to which they relate through the income statement.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not Financial instruments reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the financial is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the asset to another entity.
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable Financial assets profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for sale can be deducted.
financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the time of initial recognition.
enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority Available for sale financial assets and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a Zero coupon loans granted as part of sales transactions that are net basis.
secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Pensions Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 16.
Defined contribution The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
the income statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised Defined benefit directly in equity in retained earnings, other changes including For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest calculated using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being using the effective interest rate method, are recognised directly in carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are the income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of, or is recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
62 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial statements | Accounting policies Trade and other receivables Financial liabilities Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are classified amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
as non-current assets and are measured at amortised cost less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The net of these balances Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade are classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Impairment of financial assets twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective Trade and other payables evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect going into liquidation.
of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is amortised receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously the effective interest rate method.
written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised Bank borrowings in the income statement.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and of the loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle net the outstanding evidence of impairment.
position, the offset arrangements are applied to record the net position in the balance sheet.
In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale financial assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously subject to Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring interest rate method in the income statement.
after recognition of the impairment loss are recognised in the income statement to the extent that they reverse the impairment loss.
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances in bank Derivative financial instruments accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
of interest rate swaps, basis rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
the Groups operations and sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board Financial liabilities and equity of Directors as detailed in notes 25 and 26 to the financial statements.
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are designated as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change Equity instruments in future cash flows as a result of interest rate movements, or hedges Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital of a change in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency and are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63 Financial statements | Accounting policies The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than twelve months.
Hedge accounting All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of the hedged items.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency swaps are provided in notes 23, 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in note 30.
Cash flow hedge To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains and losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until realised.
On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within finance charges in the income statement.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately in finance charges in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Government grants Government grants are recognised in the income statement so as to match with the related costs that they are intended to compensate.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the carrying amount of the asset.
Grants related to income are deducted from the related expense in the income statement.
64 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
