Report of the Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities Financial statements and accounting records The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts including the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Accounting Standards Regulation the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretation and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 24 and 25.
By order of the Board M S Clare D F Thomas Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 23 September 2009 23 September 2009 The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 53 inclusive was approved by the Board on 23 September 2009 and is signed on its behalf by: L Dent Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 September 2009 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53
