Financial statements | Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of approval of these financial statements there were a Revision of IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
This revision number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been to IAS1 is applicable from 1 July 2009, and is expected to affect the published and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting presentation and classification of certain items within the Groups periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and later periods.
All of these financial statements.
have been endorsed by the EU with the exception of the revisions or Revision of IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Following this revision, amendments to IAS39, IFRS1, IFRS7, IFRIC9 IAS39, IFRS1 IAS27, transaction costs must be expensed, rather than included as costs IFRIC17 and IFRIC18 and the Improvements to IFRSs.
The Group of acquisition, and contingent consideration will be required to be has not early-adopted any standard, amendment or interpretation.
In addition, there will be a choice of two goodwill measurement methods where less than 100% of the entity is acquired.
The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to This revision will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009, and although impact upon the Group are: it will have no impact on implementation, it will have a significant Amendment to IAS23 Borrowing Costs.
This amendment requires impact on any future acquisitions.
an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the Amendment to IFRS7 Improving Disclosures about Financial acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part Instruments and IFRIC9 IAS39 Embedded Derivatives expands of the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The option recognised in the statement of financial position.
The amendments of immediately expensing these borrowing costs is removed subject apply from 1 July 2009 and are expected to impact upon the Group to an exemption for inventories manufactured in large numbers on by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
This amendment will apply to the Group from Amendments to IFRS1 and IAS27 Cost of an Investment in a the accounting period commencing 1 July 2009.
Adoption of the Subsidiary, Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate is primarily amendment is expected to result in a reduced interest charge in the applicable only to first time adopters of IFRS.
IAS27 has also been income statement and a consequential reduction in gross margin amended to deal with circumstances where a parent reorganises the from 1 July 2009.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of structure of its group by establishing a new entity as its parent.
The this amendment on the Groups results and financial position, amendments will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009, and although although it may be significant and will require the Group to change they will have no impact on implementation, they could impact the its accounting policy.
IFRS8 amends the current segmental Improvements to IFRSs, issued in April 2009 is the current tranche reporting requirements of IAS14 and requires a reporting approach to of the Improvements to IFRS project and includes a number of minor be adopted so that segment information is presented on the same amendments to existing IAS and IFRS, which require implementation basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This standard will from 1 July 2009.
The impact of these amendments is currently apply to the Group from the accounting period commencing 1 July being assessed by the Group.
It is expected to lead to additional disclosures being provided The adoption of the following standards, amendments and in the Groups financial statements.
The Group does not expect to interpretations are not expected to have any material impact on allocate its goodwill to alternative cash-generating units and therefore the financial statements of the Group: based upon the 30 June 2009 calculations no impairment of goodwill An amendment to IAS39 Eligible hedged items.
The amendment is expected upon adoption of this standard.
If the Group was required makes two significant changes.
It prohibits designating inflation as to alter its cash-generating units, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets limits a hedgeable component of a fixed rate debt and prohibits including the size of a cash-generating unit to an entitys segments, which could time value in the one-sided hedged risk when designating options as in certain circumstances lead to an impairment of goodwill.
The amendment will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009.
Non-vesting Part 1 of the Improvements to IFRS project and Improvements to conditions are to be taken into account in the estimate of the fair IFRSs has a number of smaller amendments to existing IAS and value of the equity instruments: vesting conditions that are not IFRS, which have implementation dates at various points during market conditions are not taken into account.
This amendment will 2009 and 2010 that apply to the Group from 1 July 2009. apply to the Group from 1 July 2009.
Adoption of the amendment may impact the accounting for the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Scheme in the income statement and equity from 1 July 2009.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65
