Financial statements Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective continued IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate.
IFRIC15 IAS27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements.
provides guidance on whether the construction of real estate should The amendments relate, primarily, to accounting for non-controlling be accounted for under IAS11 or IAS18.
The Group already accounts interests and the loss of control of a subsidiary, and will apply to the for the construction of real estate in accordance with IFRIC15, and Group from 1 July 2009. accordingly this interpretation, which is effective from 1 January Revision to IFRS1 First Time Adoption of IFRS, effective 1 July 2009 2009, will have no impact upon the Group.
relates solely to first time adopters of IFRS.
IFRIC16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
IFRIC16 IFRIC17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners provides guides an investing company on the designation of, and accounting guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity for, hedges in foreign operations.
This interpretation will apply to the distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its shareholders.
Group from 1 July 2009 and has no material impact as there are no This interpretation will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009. foreign operations.
IFRIC18 Transfers of Assets from Customers provides guidance Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and to address divergent practice in the accounting by recipients for IAS1 Presentation of financial statements for certain puttable transfers of property, plant and equipment from customers.
financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation require This interpretation will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009. some financial instruments that meet the definition of a financial Amendments to IFRIC9 and IAS39 Embedded Derivatives clarify liability to be classified as equity, where certain strict criteria are met.
that on reclassification of a financial asset out of the fair value These amendments will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009 and through profit or loss category, all embedded derivatives have to have no impact as the Group holds no such financial instruments.
be assessed and, if necessary, separately accounted for in the financial statements.
The amendments will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed In respect of the half years ended 31 December 2008 and 30 June below the critical accounting judgements made and the key sources 2009, the Group conducted reviews of the net realisable value of of estimation uncertainty within these financial statements.
its land and work in progress carrying-values of its sites in the light of the deterioration in the UK housing market.
Where the estimated Critical accounting judgements net realisable value of the site was less than its current carrying-value In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are within the balance sheet, the Group impaired the land and work in described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no progress value.
This resulted in an exceptional impairment of 499.5m individual judgements that have a significant impact upon the financial being 494.9m at 31 December 2008 and a net impairment of 4.6m statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt at 30 June 2009 as shown in note 18.
These reviews were conducted with below.
on a site-by-site basis using valuations incorporating forecast sales rates, average selling prices and estimated costs to complete that Key sources of estimation uncertainty reflected both current and anticipated trading conditions.
These are The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of key judgements in the impairment calculation.
Should there be further estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dates are discussed below.
significant movements in UK house prices then further impairments reversals of previous gross impairments of land and work in progress Carrying-value of land and work in progress may be necessary.
The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and commercial development.
Due to the nature of this activity, much of the development entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 30 June 2009 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the carrying-value of land and work in progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
66 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Financial statements | Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Estimation of costs to complete Defined benefit pension In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its The Directors engage a qualified independent actuary to calculate developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide the Groups liability in respect of its defined benefit pension scheme.
development costs between units built in the current year and in future In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
be made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
price inflation, the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets and The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from carrying-values and appropriateness of estimates made.
those assumed, the pension liability may differ from that included in these financial statements.
Recognition of profit where developments are accounted for under IAS11 Construction Contracts Hedge accounting The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising The majority of the Groups facilities are floating rate, which exposes the revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
The application Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has therefore taken of this policy requires judgements to be made in respect of the total out 765.0m note 25 of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The expected costs to complete each site.
The Group has in place Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation that it is highly probable that there is sufficient forecast debt to match of costs and revenues are based upon appropriate estimates.
If the highly probable criterion was not met in future then any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised Impairment of goodwill in the income statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended The determination of the impairment of goodwill of the housebuilding 30 June 2009, there was a loss of 81.0m 2008: 19.1m included in business requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the housebuilding equity related to these swaps.
cash-generating unit as defined in note 11.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from the In addition, the Group has entered into $271.6m of cross currency housebuilding business, including the anticipated growth rate of swaps to manage the cash flow risks related to foreign exchange, revenue and costs, and requires the determination of a suitable arising from the Groups sources of US Dollar denominated finance.
discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The These swaps are designated as a cash flow hedge against future discount rate used is one applicable to the existing capital structure foreign exchange rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be highly of the Group at the balance sheet date, as explained in note 36 there effective then any changes in fair value of the swaps would be is a proposed change to the Groups capital structure which may recognised in the income statement, rather than equity.
During the impact on the Groups discount rate in future periods.
The carrying year ended 30 June 2009, there was a gain of 30.3m 2008: 7.4m amount of goodwill at 30 June 2009 was 792.2m with no impairment included in equity related to these swaps.
7.2m 2008: nil of this gain recognised during the year ended 30 June 2009. was realised upon cancellation of $40.5m of foreign exchange swaps following repayment of $40.5m US Dollar private placement notes on Impairment of brands 12 January 2009.
The determination of the impairment calculation for the Groups indefinite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires an estimation of Available for sale financial assets the value-in-use of the brand as defined in note 12.
The value-in-use The Group holds available for sale financial assets principally comprising calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from interest free loans granted as part of sales transactions that are this brand, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property.
and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate The loans are held at the present value of expected future cash flows the present value of the cash flows.
The discount rate used is one taking into account the estimated market value of the property at the applicable to the existing capital structure which may impact on the estimated time of repayment.
At 30 June 2009 the asset recognised Groups discount rate in future periods.
The carrying amount of on the balance sheet was 86.5m 2008: 66.9m.
indefinite life brands at 30 June 2009 was 100.0m with no impairment recognised during the year ended 30 June 2009.
Deferred tax assets At 30 June 2009 the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of 127.3m, of which 130.1m related to trading losses that arose during the year that are to be carried forward and relieved against profits arising in future periods.
The judgement to recognise the deferred tax asset is dependent upon the Groups expectations regarding future profitability based upon site revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain a degree of inherent uncertainty.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 67
