Accounting Policies continued Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Land Nil Fixtures, fittings and equipment Five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
h Financial interest in property assets Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net change in value is recorded through the income statement as follows: i the carrying value of the asset is increased by the effective interest rate and ii the carrying value of the asset is revised to the net present value of the revised cash flows arising from the instrument using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition.
The change in value recorded through the income statement is shown on the line 'interest income from financial interest in property assets'.
Differences between the revised cash flows using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared to revised cash flows using a year end effective interest rate, assessed as the rate available in the market for an instrument with a similar maturity and credit risk, are taken through equity.
When gains or losses in the assets are realised, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from financial interest in property assets.
i Inventories trading properties Tenanted residential properties held for sale in the normal course of business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes legal and surveying charges incurred during acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
Land and property held within the development segment of the business, including housebuilding sites, are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price including legal and other professional costs associated with the acquisition together with subsequent development costs net of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property.
Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where land is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
j Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other shortterm highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
k Income tax and deferred tax Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using rates applicable at the balance sheet date.
Tax payable upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
