Accounting Policies continued r Convertible Bond The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability components in the group balance sheet.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
s Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
t Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
u Provisions Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
v Dividends Dividend distributions to the company s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends either are approved by the company s shareholders or are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the group.
w Assets held for sale Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale together or as a single group, they are classified as a disposal group.
The disposal group is classified as held for sale as defined by IFRS 5 when they are available for sale in their present condition and the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
x Acquisition of and investment in own shares The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the LTIS.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the company s own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees under the LTIS, a transfer is made at the average cost of the shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve and the share-based payments reserve all within retained earnings see note 34.
Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
y Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that have been published but which are not yet effective and which have not been early adopted by the group.
Accounting Policies continued - IFRS 8 'Operating Segments' effective from 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 amends the current segmental reporting requirements of IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131.
It requires a 'management approach' to be adopted so that segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
This standard will apply to the group from 1 October 2009 and is expected to impact upon the group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements: - Amendment to IAS 23 'Borrowing Costs' effective from 1 January 2009.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The option of immediately expensing these borrowing costs is removed.
This amendment will apply to the group from 1 October 2009 and its impact is currently being assessed.
- Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective from I July 2009 and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment to both of these standards is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
Some of the key changes are: i the requirement to measure all consideration at fair value at acquisition date, with any subsequent changes e. g. contingent consideration remeasured at fair value through income ii the expensing of all transaction costs iii stepped acquisitions to be accounted for as a disposal of existing interests and an acquisition of an enlarged interest, giving rise to potential profits or losses on disposal of the existing property.
- Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires the introduction of a Statement of Comprehensive Income along with voluntary changes in the titles of some of the financial statements and the requirement to aggregate information in the financial statement on the basis of shared characteristics.
The statement of changes in equity will become a primary statement in the group s results.
The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the group s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but are not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements of the group: - IFRIC 13 'Customer Loyalty Programmes'.
IFRIC 13 clarifies that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple-element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement using fair values.
IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the group s operations because none of the group companies operate any loyalty programmes.
- IFRIC 15 Agreements of construction on real estate.
IFRIC 15 standardises accounting practices across jurisdictions for the recognition of revenue by real estate developers for sales of units before construction is complete.
IFRIC 15 is not considered to have a material impact on the group s results.
Amendments to IAS 32 classify puttable financial instruments as equity provided they have particular features and meet specific conditions.
IAS 32 is not relevant to the group s operations as the group does not hold any such financial instruments.
- IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Amendments to IAS 39 regarding eligible hedged items clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular situations.
The amendment is not applicable to the group as no reclassifications of financial instruments are to be carried out.
