Accounting Policies continued o Financial instruments Derivatives The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are classified as current assets and current liabilities.
The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting in which case any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash flow hedge reserve.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted cash flow model using quoted market information.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an asset or a liability from its balance sheet.
The group s policy is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers to another party provided the transfer of the assets also transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group transferring the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset but it does result in the group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
p At fair value through profit or loss financial assets At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value taken through the income statement.
At fair value through profit or loss financial assets are managed, and their performance is evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with the group s documented investment policy.
q Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
