2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The group s significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Property valuations After a review by the directors, the valuations performed by the group s own in-house qualified surveying team are used to value the UK based property as at 30 September 2009.
A structured sample of the in-house valuations are checked by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following opinion on the directors valuation of the group s UK property, Property held in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2009 by Grainger s in-house surveyors.
These valuations were reviewed and approved by the directors.
Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the director s valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the core residential portfolio and approximately 31% of the retirement solutions portfolio, independently of the group.
Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of confidence in the totals reported by the directors in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios.
Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason, and because we have no right to internal access, it is undertaken on an external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when the in-house valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, over 95% of the valuations are within a small acceptable tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better information about internal condition is available or that respective valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the group and the valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted.
i Investment Property Investment property in the UK portfolio is valued as set out under property valuations above.
The net deficit on valuation of the core and retirement solutions portfolios as at 30 September 2009 was 14.7m and this has been taken through the income statement.
As at 30 September 2009, Cushman & Wakefield LLP and Jones Lang LaSalle GmbH, both external valuers, have valued separate parts of the portfolio in Germany.
Cushman & Wakefield LLP valued property with a value of 346.4m 316.7m and Jones Lang LaSalle valued property with a value of 168.0m 153.6m.
The net deficit on valuation of investment property in the Germany portfolio as at 30 September 2009 was 10.9m and this has been taken through the income statement.
Whilst in the UK valuers rely predominantly on recent transactional evidence for similar properties to value investment property, in Germany investment property is valued using an income capitalisation approach under which net rental income is discounted to a net present value.
Both methodologies are permitted under IAS 40.
61 The group also has investments in joint ventures and associates which include investment property.
Investment property held in Grainger Geninvest LLP and Grainger Geninvest No.
2 2006 LLP, in both of which Grainger has a 50% share, were valued by an external valuer, Martin Angel FRICS, of Allsop LLP.
He has provided the directors of those entities with the following opinion.
The valuations of the portfolios were made in accordance with the requirements of the RICS Valuation Standards sixth edition and International Valuation Standards.
The valuation of each portfolio was on the basis of market value, subject to the assumption that the properties would be sold individually, in their existing condition, and subject to any existing leases or tenancies.
In aggregate, across both entities, the valuation of the investment property was 279.7m.
Allsop LLP is satisfied that, in respect of this valuation market value is the same as fair value.
The valuers opinion of market value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arm s length terms.
However, although there has been reasonable activity in the market for properties subject to Regulated Tenancies, there have been lower than usual volumes of recent market transactional evidence, in particular for vacant properties and properties subject to Assured Shorthold Tenancies.
In line with the guidance to valuers under GN5 of the RICS Valuation Standards, Allsop LLP has stated to the directors that valuations of some individual dwellings may be subject to a lower level of confidence than is normal.
However, when taken in aggregate, and reported as such, Allsop LLP has concluded that individual differences in value are likely to be smoothed out across the whole portfolio and would not materially affect our valuation.
The group s share of the investment property across both GenInvest entities of 139.9m represents only 6% of the total market value of the group s total interest in property assets at 30 September 2009.
The group has a 21.63% interest in G:res which has invested in investment property.
Valuations of 100% of the G:res portfolio were carried out jointly as at 31 December 2008 and 30 June 2009 by external valuers, Allsop LLP and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited.
In aggregate, the valuation of investment property at 30 June 2009 was 346.2m.
Other than for sales and purchases, no adjustment has been made to these valuations in the group s accounts to 30 September 2009.
The group has a 21.8% share in Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust ResPUT.
Investment property in this Fund was valued at 40.0m by Allsop LLP as at 30 September 2009.
Net realisable value of trading property The group s residential trading properties are carried in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing net realisable value the group uses valuations carried out by its own in-house qualified surveying team.
As stated above, a structured sample of the inhouse valuations was checked by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
As the group s business model is to sell trading stock on vacancy, net realisable value is the net sales proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2009 to write down properties expected to be sold ultimately at vacant possession value.
For properties expected to be held beyond the immediate future, the provision has been assessed on what the group considers to be prudent assumptions.
These allow for a further decline in property prices in 2010 followed by a period of stable prices with price increases thereafter in line with conservative historical house price growth rates.
The group does sell some property as investment sales, a sale with the tenant still in situ.
A net realisable value provision has been made at 30 September 2009 against projected investment sales.
In aggregate a charge of 4.4m has been made in the 2009 income statement to reduce the book value of trading properties to the lower of cost and net realisable value.
62 Land and property held within the development segment of the business, including housebuilding sites, are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property and a provision is made when, and to the extent that, total projected project costs exceed total projected project revenues.
Where land is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
Decisions regarding whether to develop a site or to sell a site undeveloped are made by the directors based on market conditions prevailing at the time.
The assumptions adopted as at 30 September 2009 are based upon the current intentions of the directors.
In addition, estimates at 30 September 2009 of project profitability are based on assumptions regarding projected build costs and sales proceeds for those sites where development is expected to occur.
In some cases these projections are made without the benefit of planning permission having been agreed.
The assumptions made may or may not be borne out in practice.
It is possible therefore that the net realisable value provision required should be more than or less than that made.
A charge of 14.0m has been made in the 2009 income statement to reduce the book value of development stock to net realisable value.
Valuation of financial interest in property assets The valuation is based on an assessment of the future cash flows that will arise from our financial interest and on the effective interest rate used to discount those cash flows.
The valuation methodology adopted is set out in note 1 h above.
The key assumptions affecting the carrying value are house price inflation and the effective interest rate.
The assumptions adopted with regard to house prices are the same as those set out under net realisable value of trading property above.
A change of 1% to average house price inflation over the 10 year period from 1 October 2009 would either increase the valuation by 7.4m or reduce the valuation by 6.7m.
Consideration has been given to the effective interest rate to adopt for the valuation.
We have concluded that the effective interest rate should be reduced by 0.35% as at 30 September 2009.
A 1% change to the discount rate would either increase the carrying value by 8.1m or reduce the carrying value by 7.3m.
Distinction between investment and trading property The group considers the intention at the outset when each property is acquired in order to classify the property as either an investment or a trading property.
Where the intention is to either trade the property or where the property is held for immediate sale upon receiving vacant possession within the ordinary course of business, the property is classified as trading property.
Where the intention is to hold the property for its long term rental yield and or capital appreciation, the property is classified as an investment property.
Income taxes There are some transactions and calculations that involve a degree of estimation and judgement and whose tax treatment can not be determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such cases, the group s policy is to be prudent in its assessment of the tax benefit that may accrue in line with the contingent asset rules set out in IAS 37.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts initially recorded, such differences will impact on the income and deferred tax amounts reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
Goodwill impairment Goodwill can arise when a portfolio is acquired on the acquisition of a corporate entity accounted for as a business combination.
The goodwill arises from the difference between how deferred tax is calculated for accounting purposes and the value ascribed to it in the acquisition negotiations.
Generally, the value of goodwill is supported by the fact that the taxation cash flows will arise in future years and the discounted value of these cash flows is significantly less than the tax actually provided.
The cash generating unit for impairment testing is the portfolio acquired in the relevant entity and a goodwill impairment loss arises if the carrying amount of the portfolio 63 exceeds the value in use which is determined as the present value of the future cash flows arising.
The goodwill impairment charge in the core business in 2009 relating to taxation as described above was 2.2m.
The key sensitivities relating to the goodwill impairment testing are the discount rate used and the expected hold period for the assets concerned.
The discount rate used is a post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 4.83%, a post tax rate as the cash flows being discounted are tax payments.
A 1% increase in the discount rate would reduce the impairment charge by 0.8m whilst a 1% decrease would increase the impairment charge by 0.9m.
The hold periods used for the assets, and over which the cash flows have been discounted, are dependent upon the classification of assets between investment property and trading stock and the different property tenures.
For instance, regulated properties are likely to be sold on vacancy whereas an assured shorthold property held as an investment property is more likely to be held for long term investment gains and rental income.
The hold periods used in the impairment calculations range from 11 years to 15 years.
If the average hold period was changed by one year the impairment charge would either be reduced or increased by 0.3m In addition to the above, goodwill of 0.7m arose in the year from the acquisition of FRM in 2008.
Additional legal and professional costs were incurred during the year relating to the group s acquisition of the remaining shares from the minority interest.
This goodwill has been fully impaired in the income statement Going concern The directors are required to make an assessment of the group s ability to continue to trade as a going concern.
The two main considerations were as follows: i Re-financing of banking facilities the group announced on 30 September 2009 that two new forward start facilities totalling 615m had been finalised to re-finance the Group s 400m facility maturing in June 2010 and 475m facility maturing in June 2011.
These two latter facilities have been reduced to 250m and 445m respectively by using shortterm committed but undrawn facilities.
As a result of the above, the group has no core debt facilities maturing in its 2010 financial year.
A total of 109m matures in the group s 2011 financial year.
As demonstrated this year, the group is able to generate strong cash inflows even in very difficult market conditions.
ii Covenant compliance - The core facility has two covenants, both unchanged by the new facilities, covering loan-to-value LTV ratio and interest cover.
The group has remained well within both of these covenants during the year.
At 30 September 2009 the LTV ratio on the core facility was 66%: an LTV of 80% could lead to default.
The interest cover ratio was 2.7 times against a minimum requirement of 1.25 times.
The group s financial forecasts confirm that, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, the group will operate within its banking facilities and also remain compliant with its covenants for at least the next twelve months.
On the basis of the above the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
