Accounting Policies continued r Convertible Bond The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability components in the group balance sheet.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
s Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
t Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
u Provisions Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
v Dividends Dividend distributions to the company s shareholders are recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends either are approved by the company s shareholders or are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the group.
w Assets held for sale Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale together or as a single group, they are classified as a disposal group.
The disposal group is classified as held for sale as defined by IFRS 5 when they are available for sale in their present condition and the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
x Acquisition of and investment in own shares The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the LTIS.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the company s own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
When shares are issued to employees under the LTIS, a transfer is made at the average cost of the shares issued between the investment in own shares reserve and the share-based payments reserve all within retained earnings see note 34.
Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
y Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that have been published but which are not yet effective and which have not been early adopted by the group.
