Accounting Policies continued Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method.
Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the values used for tax purposes.
Deferred income tax is calculated after taking account of any indexation allowances and capital losses.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and is calculated using rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the tax jurisdiction in which the temporary differences arise.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be used.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset if there is a legally enforceable right of set off.
l Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension scheme Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period to which they relate.
ii Defined benefit pension scheme The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme that was closed to new members and employee contributions in 2003.
The full deficit in the scheme was recognised in the balance sheet as at 1 October 2004.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years.
However, the valuation is updated annually by a qualified actuary for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in the group s financial statements under IAS 19.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
There are no current or past service costs as the scheme is closed to new members and employee contributions.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected return on pension scheme assets are reflected in the income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and losses net of deferred income tax are reflected in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense each year.
iii Share-based compensation The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans comprising awards under a Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, a Share Incentive Plan and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of shares and options is recognised as an employee expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Awards that are subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
Awards not subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Black Scholes valuation model.
When options are exercised the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
m Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue is recognised as follows: 56
