Accounting Policies continued i Rental and similar income Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
ii Management fee income Management fee income is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
iii Service Charges The group is responsible for providing service charge services in both the UK and in Germany.
Where Grainger is exposed to the significant risks and rewards associated with the rendering of services it is acting as principal.
Otherwise it is acting as agent.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
Accordingly service charge income and costs are shown net in the balance sheet.
Where recovery of service charges is doubtful a provision for impairment is made.
Any management fees earned are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis.
In Germany, Grainger acts primarily as principal.
Accordingly service charge income and costs are shown gross in the income statement with service charge recoveries from tenants recorded as a component of group revenue.
Other income is accounted for as follows: Income from property trading i Profits or losses arising from the sale of trading and investment property are included in the income statement where contract completion has taken place, are calculated by reference to their carrying value and are included in operating profit.
ii Income from investments Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
n Leases i Group as lessor The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties leased out to tenants are included in the balance sheet as either investment property or as trading property under inventories.
Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment in respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is treated as deferred rent in the balance sheet.
This deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight line basis over this revised lease term.
ii Group as lessee The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent expenses are taken to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
