Accounting Policies continued e Foreign currency translation i Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the group s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the group s functional and presentation currency.
ii Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
iii Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates for the relevant period.
iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity within the translation reserve as part of retained earnings.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within other interest payable.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
f Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as investment property.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the group uses alternative valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of the property when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the group s investment properties are included in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
