Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies a The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain investments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The company has taken the exemption allowed under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The loss for the year was 20.4m 2008: profit of 36.3m.
On an historical cost basis the loss for the year would have been 20.0m 2008: profit of 38.5m.
These financial statements present information about the company as an individual undertaking and not about its group.
In accordance with the exemption in FRS1 'Cash Flow Statements revised 1996 ', the company has not prepared a cash flow statement on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 'Related Party Transactions', from the requirement to disclose such transactions on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
b Accounting Policies The company financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP rather than under IFRS which has been adopted for group reporting.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the company's financial statements.
c Tangible fixed assets These comprise office fixtures, fittings and equipment and are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets which is assessed as five years.
d Investments Investments in equity instruments that have a quoted market price in an active market or whose fair value can be reliably measured are valued at fair value under FRS 26 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'.
Fair value is measured as the net asset value per unit held.
e Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost less provision for impairment.
f Taxation Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits or losses at the current rate.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the accounts and their recognition in a tax computation.
In accordance with FRS 19 'Deferred Tax', deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date that may give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
g Own shares including treasury shares Transactions of the Grainger Trust Employee Trust Company Limited and The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the company by each trust and any treasury shares bought back by the company are debited directly to equity.
