Accounting Policies continued Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
iii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The group s investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The group s share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the group's interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
iv Transactions with minority interests The group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains or losses for the group that are recorded in the income statement.
On acquisition of minority interests, where the consideration paid exceeds the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary the difference is recorded in equity as a deduction from retained earnings.
c Segmental reporting The group s risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by differences between the property asset types it owns and manages.
A business segment is a distinguishable group of assets and operations, reflected in the way that the group manages its business, that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
The group has identified six such segments as follows:- Core portfolio: Retirement solutions: Fund management residential investments: Development: European tenanted residential: and European Development All of the above segments are UK based except European tenanted residential which has its assets and tenants based in Germany and European development which has its assets based in the Czech Republic.
More detail is given relating to each of the above segments, and their geographical split in the chief executive s review on pages 8 to 10 of this document and in note 4. d Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
