2 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The group s significant accounting policies are stated in note 1 above.
Not all of these accounting policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Property valuations After a review by the directors, the valuations performed by the group s own in-house qualified surveying team are used to value the UK based property as at 30 September 2009.
A structured sample of the in-house valuations are checked by Allsop LLP, an external independent valuer.
Allsop LLP has provided the directors with the following opinion on the directors valuation of the group s UK property, Property held in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios was valued as at 30 September 2009 by Grainger s in-house surveyors.
These valuations were reviewed and approved by the directors.
Allsop LLP has undertaken a comprehensive review of the director s valuation and they are satisfied with the process by which the in-house valuations were conducted.
As part of the review, Allsop LLP valued approximately 50% of the core residential portfolio and approximately 31% of the retirement solutions portfolio, independently of the group.
Allsop LLP has concluded that they have a high degree of confidence in the totals reported by the directors in the core residential and retirement solutions portfolios.
Valuing the large number of properties in the portfolio is a significant task.
For this reason, and because we have no right to internal access, it is undertaken on an external inspection basis only.
Invariably, when the in-house valuations are compared to those of the external valuer, over 95% of the valuations are within a small acceptable tolerance.
Where the difference is more significant this is discussed with the valuer to determine the reasons for the difference.
Typically the reasons vary but it could be, for example, that further or better information about internal condition is available or that respective valuers have placed a different interpretation on comparable sales.
Once such reasons have been identified the group and the valuer agree the appropriate valuation that should be adopted.
i Investment Property Investment property in the UK portfolio is valued as set out under property valuations above.
The net deficit on valuation of the core and retirement solutions portfolios as at 30 September 2009 was 14.7m and this has been taken through the income statement.
As at 30 September 2009, Cushman & Wakefield LLP and Jones Lang LaSalle GmbH, both external valuers, have valued separate parts of the portfolio in Germany.
Cushman & Wakefield LLP valued property with a value of 346.4m 316.7m and Jones Lang LaSalle valued property with a value of 168.0m 153.6m.
The net deficit on valuation of investment property in the Germany portfolio as at 30 September 2009 was 10.9m and this has been taken through the income statement.
Whilst in the UK valuers rely predominantly on recent transactional evidence for similar properties to value investment property, in Germany investment property is valued using an income capitalisation approach under which net rental income is discounted to a net present value.
Both methodologies are permitted under IAS 40.
