Glossary of Terms Property Market-rented tenancy arising from succession from regulated.
Tenant has security of Assured periodic tenancy APT tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market-rented tenancy where landlord may obtain possession if appropriate notice served.
Assured tenancy AT Market-rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Investment value IV or market value Open market value of a property subject to relevant tenancy in place.
Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of occupation until possession is forfeited usually Home reversion on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the property this is a partial life tenancy.
PRS Private Rented Sector Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub market set by rent officer and Regulated tenancy tenant has security of tenure.
Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and subsequent sale usually on vacancy of Tenanted residential TR residential units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any tenancy.
Corporate NNNAV adjusted for the after tax value of the reversionary surplus in our regulated and Grainger NAV equity release portfolios discounted back to present value using our risk adjusted weighted average costs of capital over the expected average period of realisation.
International Financial Reporting Standards, Mandatory for UK-listed companies for IFRS accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005.
Financial Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the interest Cap rate on a loan.
The amount of tax that would be payable should assets be sold at the market value shown Contingent tax in the accounts.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of Earnings per share EPS shares in issue in the year.
Gearing The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to market net asset value.
On acquisition of a company, the difference between the fair value of net assets acquired Goodwill and the purchase price paid.
NNNAV adjusted for the taxed discounted reversionary surplus on core UK residential Grainger NAV portfolios Gross net asset value Gross NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of property assets held as stock Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against interest rate movements.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Interest cover Profit ordinary activities before interest and tax divided by net interest payable Loan to value LTV Ratio of net debt to the market value of properties.
Net net asset value triple net or Gross NAV adjusted for contingent tax liabilities which would accrue if assets sold at NNNAV market value and for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives Return on capital employed Growth in NNNAV plus dividends paid per share as a percentage of opening NNNAV Profit before financing costs plus all revaluation surpluses as percentage of opening gross Return on shareholders equity capital Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate movements.
Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share price growth with dividends Total shareholder return TSR reinvested.
Weighted average cost of capital The weighted average cost of funding the group s activities through a combination of WACC shareholders funds and debt.
