Contingent liabilities The properties in certain subsidiary companies forming a 'guarantee group' provide the security for the group's MOF facility see note 26.
The properties in certain of the group's German subsidiaries provide security for the non-recourse finance raised in those subsidiary undertakings.
Barclays Bank Plc and Lloyds TSB Bank Plc have provided guarantees under performance bonds relating to the Group's UK development division.
In addition they have provided guarantees against certain loan notes issued by the group.
In either case, if called upon the relevant bank would have recourse to the group in relation to these guarantees.
As at 30 September 2009, total guarantees amounted to 4.5m 2008: 14.3m.
In addition, the group has an obligation, under the sale and purchase agreement for the land at West Waterlooville, to pay further consideration should the site value exceed certain pre-agreed amounts.
It is not possible to determine the amount or timing of any such future payments due to the long term nature of the site's development and the associated uncertainties with respect to planning applications.
However, any future payments will not fall due until at least 2015 and will be spread over a number of years.
Post balance sheet events Grainger plc has announced, at the same time as these financial statements have been issued, its intention to raise approximately 250m approximately 238m net of expenses by way of a fully underwritten rights issue.
The group will use this additional equity finance to improve its balance sheet leverage ratios, reduce the overall cost and size of its debt and to recommence property acquisition activities as suitable opportunities arise.
40. Business combinations Effective from 1 January 2009, the Group acquired a 50% joint venture interest in Gebau Vermogen GmbH, a residential property management company based in Germany.
The consideration for the acquisition was 2.9m.
The net assets acquired totalled 0.2m, generating goodwill of 2.7m.
Due to the immaterial nature of the transaction, no further disclosure is provided.
