Directors Report The Boards policies and procedures are set out in a Directors File which is Directors Corporate Governance Statement provided to all directors on appointment and which is reviewed annually and 38 Corporate Social Responsibility updated as required.
Compliance 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management 2.
The Board and Independence At the date of this report, the Board comprises a chairman, fi five other non- 42 Financial Matters 4.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive executive directors and two executive directors who contribute a wide range 44 Additional Disclosures 5.
Board Appointments of complementary skills and experience.
A short biography of each current 446 6 Dir Direc ect tors ors C Corporat orporate e 6.
Information and Professional Development director is set out on page 41.
G Go ov vernanc ernance Stat e Statement ement 7.
Performance Evaluation Peter Ratcliff e became a non-executive director with eff ect from 52 Directors Remuneration 8.
Board Committees 9 January 2009, when he also joined the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Report a. Remuneration Committee Michael Harper took on the additional role of Chairman at Ricardo plc in 60 Going C oncern and b.
Bruce Van Allen stepped down from the Board with eff ect Statement of Directors 9.
Audit and Accountability from 8 January 2009.
Audit Committee The Board has determined that all its non-executive directors F Financial stat inancial statements ements b.
Systems of Internal Control including John Roques, who was appointed to the Board in January 1999 are 10.
Shareholder Relations independent in character and judgement.
The renewal of John Roques 61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA appointment in 2009 was discussed by Board members in the light of the Aviation plc in respect of 1.
Compliance Boards performance evaluations and the continuity of experience he the consolidated financial The Board is committed to ensuring high and relevant standards of corporate provided, which the Board valued.
Under the Combined Code a statements governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
determination of independence is after the year of appointment not 62 Consolidated income The Company applies the principles of corporate governance set required for a serving Chairman.
The Company has formal procedures in place statement out in Section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance to ensure that the Boards powers to authorise confl icts are operated 63 Consolidated balance sheet Combined Code adopted by the Financial Reporting Council, available at eff ectively.
Those procedures were updated in 2008 and have been followed 64 Consolidated cash flow www.
uk corporate and most recently revised in June 2008 through its throughout 2009. statement own behaviour, by monitoring the evolution of corporate governance best At the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM Andrew Wood and John 65 Consolidated statement of practice, by reviewing and updating its procedures as required and by Roques will, as previously announced, retire from the Board.
At that time Mark comprehensive income adopting, where appropriate, recommendations of relevant bodies.
Board Hoad will join the Board as Group Finance Director, Nick Land will become 65 Consolidated statement of members have considered proposed developments in corporate governance Senior Independent Director and Michael Harper will become Chairman of changes in equity during 2009 and have contributed to the debate in this area.
As mentioned above, the Board keeps proposed 66 Accounting policies of The directors can confi rm compliance throughout 2009 with the corporate governance developments under review and, after discussing the the Group provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Financial Reporting Councils proposal to change the frequency of election 69 Notes to the consolidated The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance with for some or all Board members, the Board has decided that all Board members financial statements the Combined Code appears on page 61. wishing to continue serving on the Board after the 2010 AGM will retire and 95 Independent auditors report stand for re-election at that AGM.
The Board believes that each of the nonto the members of BBA 2.
The Boards Role executive directors should be re-elected by shareholders because, as Aviation plc in respect of the The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the long-term success of evidenced by Board performance evaluations, each continues to be eff ective parent company financial statements the Company.
Its role includes providing eff ective leadership and agreeing and demonstrate commitment to his role.
The Board believes that each of the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to them will continue to do so.
96 Company balance sheet ensure that appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive 96 Accounting policies of responsible for reviewing managements performance and oversees senior directors without the attendance of the executive directors and there was a the Company level succession planning within the Group.
The Board is responsible for formal meeting of the Senior Independent Director and non-executive 98 Notes to the Company setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring the Companys directors without the Chairman present.
There were several other occasions financial statements obligations to its shareholders are met.
during the year when discussions between various directors took place on an 102 Principal subsidiary There were eight scheduled Board meetings in 2009 which were informal basis.
undertakings attended by all the directors, other than the April meeting which Hansel Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board 103 Five year summary Tookes was unable to attend.
Board meetings focus on strategy and fi financial before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
104 Shareholder information and business performance.
There was also an additional meeting of Board Executive directors may retain the fees from any such directorship.
No members focusing on the longer term strategic direction of the Group and executive directors held non-executive directorships during 2009. looking in greater detail at the markets in which the Group operates.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specifi c matters.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Group Throughout 2009 there has continued to be a clear division of responsibilities Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other Board members and the between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
This is reinforced by a Group Secretary.
written statement of the division of responsibilities between the two positions The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for which was reviewed and approved by the Board in 2007.
Michael Harper as decision including approval of matters such as: Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its strategy and objectives eff ectiveness.
He is responsible for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the Group policies directors receive information in an accurate, clear and timely manner.
He is annual budgets responsible for promoting eff ective decision-making, ensuring the dividends performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors are acquisitions and disposals of businesses evaluated on an annual basis and that appropriate Board training and expenditure over a certain limit development occurs.
Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is responsible for fi financial results the development and implementation of Board strategy and policy, the appointments to the Board running of the Groups business, ensuring that the business strategy and activities are eff ectively communicated and promoted within and outside This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Matters the business and for building positive relationships with the Companys outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by management in stakeholders.
accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board and Audit Committee.
