D Dir ire ec ct to ors rs Repor Report t Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38 Corporate Social Responsibility 25.
Contingent liabilities 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management The Group is party to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the normal course of business, including specifi c product liability and environmental claims.
Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance, reserves and third party indemnities.
42 Financial Matters 44 Additional Disclosures Additionally, the Group has previously owned businesses that manufactured products containing asbestos.
No BBA company has manufactured or sold any 46 Directors Corporate products or materials containing asbestos for many years.
A small number of former BBA companies have been named as defendants to asbestos-related claims.
Governance Statement When these companies were sold, BBA retained certain obligations to indemnify the purchasers against such claims.
Notwithstanding such indemnity 52 Directors Remuneration arrangements, the costs incurred by BBA in dealing with claims made against these former BBA companies have been immaterial to BBA.
During the period 1989 Report to 31 December 2009, BBAs aggregate costs of defending and disposing of all asbestos-related claims, net of insurance coverage, were approximately 6.6 60 Going Concern and million.
BBA maintains a portfolio of insurance coverage in respect of the majority of such claims, including legal defence costs and liability cover.
State operated Statement of Directors compensation programmes have also provided coverage.
On the basis of its past claims experience, BBA does not anticipate any material increase in the cost to Responsibilities it of resolving such claims.
Financial statements Whilst the outcome of these claims are, by their nature, uncertain, the directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set 61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA out above either individually, or in aggregate, will materially exceed the insurance coverage or amounts provided as shown in note 18, and are not expected to Aviation plc in respect of have a material adverse eff ect upon the Groups fi financial position.
Related party transactions 62 Consolidated income Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
statement Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are detailed below.
63 Consolidated balance sheet 64 Consolidated cash flow Compensation of key management personnel statement Key management are the directors and members of the Executive Committee.
65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income The remuneration of directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: 65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 2009 2008 m m 66 Accounting policies of the Group Short-term benefits 6.0 4.1 6 69 9 Not N otes t es to the c o the consolidat onsolidated ed Post-employment benefits 0.7 0.5 f financial stat inancial statements ements Share-based payments 0.7 0.2 9 95 5 I I ndependent audit ndependent audito or rs r s repor eport t 7.4 4.4 t to o the members of BBA the members of BBA A Av viation plc in r iation plc in re espec spect t of the of the p par arent c ent co ompan mpany y financial financial Post-employment benefi ts include contributions of 0.3 million 2008: 0.3 million in relation to defi ned contribution schemes.
s stat tate ements ments 96 Company balance sheet The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
The directors remuneration is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 59.
96 A ccounting policies of the Company Other related party transactions 98 Notes to the Company financial statements During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 102 Principal subsidiary Amounts owed by Amounts owed to undertakings Sales of goods Purchases of goods related parties related parties 103 Five year summary 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 104 Shareholder information m m m m m m m m Associates 2.3 2.6 80.8 129.0 0.3 0.5 6.6 5.5 Purchases were made at market price discounted to refl ect the quantity of goods purchased and the relationships between the parties.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
At the balance sheet date, Group companies had loan receivables from an associated undertaking of 1.4 million 2008: 1.5 million.
The loans are unsecured and will be settled in cash, and were made on terms which refl ect the relationships between the parties.
