Audit and Accountability The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review of a.
Audit Committee written reports circulated in advance of meetings and by discussing these Composition reports and any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
The composition of the Audit Committee during 2009 is set out in the Topics covered by the Audit Committee during 2009 and to date in 2010 following table.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonincluded: review of any signifi cant issues from reports from both the internal executive directors.
Nick Land, the Committees Chairman, has relevant and and external audits: consideration of the audit fee and the balance between recent fi financial experience and a professional accountancy qualifi cation as audit and non-audit fees: assessment of the risk of the possible withdrawal of considered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Deloitte LLP from the external auditor market: annual review of the terms of Committees issued in October 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees.
In reference of the Committee and of the schedule of the Committees agenda addition the other Committee members all have experience of corporate items for the forthcoming year and of BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels fi financial matters and Peter Ratcliff e and John Roques have professional and other topics that are described in more detail in this report.
In 2009 the Audit Committee held two confi dential sessions without management present with the Head of Group Internal Audit and with the During Year external auditors.
01 01 09 Resigned Appointed 31 12 09 24 02 10 Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness Nick Land Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and monitoring of the Chairman external auditors independence and objectivity and the eff ectiveness of the Mark Harper audit process.
The Audit Committee carried out a formal audit service Peter Ratcliffe 09 01 09 assessment in respect of work carried out during the year including a review John Roques of audit plans and the qualifi cations, expertise, resources, eff ectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried During 2009 the Audit Committee met on four occasions, generally coinciding out a detailed performance evaluation and believes that it has satisfi ed the with key dates in the fi financial reporting and audit cycle.
There was full requirements of the Combined Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees.
attendance by all the Committee members.
The external auditors and Head The Audit Committee has confi rmed that during the year it had formal and of Group Internal Audit regularly attend these meetings which are minuted by transparent arrangements for considering fi financial reporting and internal the Group Secretary.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part of the Companys auditors.
Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Chairman may call a A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence is meeting at the request of any director or the Companys external auditors.
the Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by its external auditors.
This policy is reviewed annually.
It prohibits the Groups external Role auditors from carrying out certain additional services for the Group including The Committee may consider any matter that might have a fi financial impact book-keeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and fi financial on the Group.
However, its primary roles are: fi first, monitoring the fi financial systems design and implementation.
Services which the external auditors reporting process and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit may be permitted to carry out include assurance services such as reporting and the internal audit work programme: and second, reviewing the annual accountant work and tax services.
The Committee is satisfi ed that the majority fi financial statements and half-yearly and preliminary announcements before of the tax services supplied by Deloitte LLP are compliance-related and they are presented to the Board.
In addition, the Committee reviews twice represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
yearly reports on the Groups key business risks and the Audit Committee As a matter of principle, the Companys policy is not to use the whose members are also members of the Remuneration Committee is external auditors for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the aware of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of incentive Group considers it appropriate or where confl icts arise, suppliers other than structures under review.
The Committee assesses compliance with the the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
The Committee also reviews the Groups The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy under which staff may, in confi dence, permitted services, which may exceed set fi financial limits.
Non-audit fees paid raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of fi financial reporting or due to the external auditors are regularly reviewed by the Committee and or other matters.
In 2009 this review was incorporated into the twice yearly those paid in 2009 are set out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial formal report to the Audit Committee on Business Ethics and Compliance.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Deloitte LLP have confi rmed that all non-audit services they Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its external auditors.
performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do While the appointment of external auditors is considered each year, it is the not impair their independence or objectivity.
On the basis of their own review policy of the Audit Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at of the services performed, the requirement of pre-approval and the auditors least every fi five years.
Such a review was completed in 2008, taking into confi rmation, the Committee is satisfi ed that the non-audit services currently account a number of factors, including audit eff ectiveness at both operating provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence and objectivity.
company and Group-level: quality, continuity and depth of resources and expertise and competitiveness of fees.
The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is also rotated every fi five years and Nigel Mercer was appointed to this role for the 2008 audit.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based reviews Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued of controls and business processes.
The role of internal audit is defi ned in 38 Corporate Social Responsibility a Group Internal Audit Charter and this includes its terms of reference, b.
Systems of Internal Control the standards which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for its reporting processes.
The Audit Committee receives a report from reviewing its eff ectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is internal audit at each meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy 42 Financial Matters accountable to the directors for monitoring this system and for providing and eff ectiveness of controls by site, a summary of key issues, work 44 Additional Disclosures assurance to the directors that it has done so.
The system of internal control is schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance with the 446 6 Dir Direc ect tors ors C Corporat orporate e essentially an ongoing process embedded in the Groups businesses for Combined Code, the Audit Committee regularly monitors and reviews G Go ov vernanc ernance Stat e Statement ement identifying, evaluating and managing the signifi cant risks faced by the Group, the eff ectiveness of internal audit utilising outside specialists and self- 52 Directors Remuneration including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The Group considers that it assessment techniques.
During the winter of 2008-9, in accordance with Report has adequate information to identify and assess signifi cant risks and the standards issued by The Institute of Internal Auditors UK and Ireland, 60 Going C oncern and opportunities aff ecting its long and short-term value.
an external, independent review of the eff ectiveness of the internal audit Statement of Directors This process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2009 function was undertaken, and its positive fi findings were reported to the Responsibilities and up to 24 February 2010 and the directors can therefore confi rm that they Audit Committee, which held a meeting with the external reviewing F Financial stat inancial statements ements have reviewed the eff ectiveness in accordance with the internal control team to discuss the fi findings.
requirements of the Combined Code throughout that period.
61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by the 4.
A G roup Finance Manual details accounting policies and fi financial Aviation plc in respect of directors and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies the consolidated financial Council in October 2005: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on are aligned with the latest International Accounting Standards and statements the Combined Code.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate International Financial Reporting Standards.
Compliance with these 62 Consolidated income the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but policies is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
statement not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, to the extent 63 Consolidated balance sheet that is appropriate, taking account of costs and benefi ts.
A n annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the 64 Consolidated cash flow The main features of the Groups internal control and risk Groups reporting units.
statement management systems are listed below.
D etailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management comprehensive income 1.
Detailed written self-assessment of risks by company, division and which measure actual performance against budget and forecasts.
The 65 Consolidated statement of function carried out by the responsible executive are plotted on risk monthly forecasts of sales, profi ts and operating cash are updated on a changes in equity maps.
The process to identify risks and their mitigation has been quarterly basis.
The integrity of these management accounts with the 66 Accounting policies of supplemented in 2009 by externally facilitated risk workshops carried out underlying fi financial records is subject to review as part of the internal the Group at a number of key operating units.
Further workshops are planned in audit process.
A monthly report is provided to the Board, based on these 69 Notes to the consolidated 2010.
Both the assessments and the risk maps are reviewed by the management accounts, highlighting key issues and summarising the financial statements internal audit department and by senior management at quarterly detailed fi financial information provided by the operating units.
95 Independent auditors report operating review meetings held with each business.
These reviews to the members of BBA assess the following categories of risk: 7.
C apital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, authorisation Aviation plc in respect of the business: levels requiring the approval of major projects by the Group directors parent company financial fi financial: statements and by post-investment appraisals.
compliance: and 96 Company balance sheet operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
Defi ned procedures are laid down for investments, currency and 96 Accounting policies of The outcome from these reviews is then discussed twice each year at commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury the Company meetings of the Executive Management Committee, with the results products.
98 Notes to the Company being presented to the Audit Committee, which in turn reviews the financial statements eff ectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on behalf of the 9.
A detailed matrix defi fines the levels of authority for the Groups senior 102 Principal subsidiary Board.
The Audit Committee receives a report at least twice a year from executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital undertakings the Group Finance Director detailing the risks and the work undertaken expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
103 Five year summary in managing the risks faced by the Group.
Based on this information the This matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board 104 Shareholder information Board reviews the risks and confi rms they are satisfi ed that the risks are and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance with the authority matrix appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case they request that is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
An organisational structure is in place at both head offi ce and divisional level which clearly defi fines responsibilities for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company secretarial and insurance functions.
