Information and Professional Development The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and progressive The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive accurate, refreshing of the Board.
It believes that the necessary arrangements to timely and clear information with Board and Committee papers being manage succession issues promptly and eff ectively are in place.
There is a circulated in advance of meetings.
The Board and its Committees are kept formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to informed of corporate governance and relevant regulatory developments as the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination they arise and receive appropriate briefi ngs.
The Audit Committee is routinely Committee.
The appointment process is initiated by the Board and a selection briefed on accounting and technical matters by senior management and the procedure established to identify suitable external search consultants for the external auditors, the Remuneration Committee receives updates on vacancy.
The process diff ers in its detail depending on whether the remuneration trends and market practices and in 2009 the Board watched appointment is for an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials and discussed a training video on the handling of matters arising from remain the same and was followed prior to the appointment of Peter Ratcliff e whistleblowing calls.
in January 2009 and the appointment, with eff ect from 29 April 2010, of Mark In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintained Hoad.
Following the appointment of a suitable external consultant, details of regular contact during the year with other directors to discuss specifi c issues.
the role and capabilities required for the appointment are prepared.
The Opportunities exist throughout the year for informal contact between Board consultant then draws up a list of potential candidates and a shortlist is created members and with members of the senior management team.
In addition through consultation amongst Nomination Committee members.
The Board there is a structured programme of presentations to the Board from each of as a whole is also regularly updated as to the status of the appointment the businesses within the Group and from a number of Group functional process.
Meetings as appropriate are arranged with Committee members and leaders.
Site visits are arranged for Board members at which they also meet the Committee aims to ensure that each Board member is given the employees in individual operations.
For example, in October 2009 Board opportunity to meet the short-listed candidates.
The Nomination Committee members toured ASIGs operations in Atlanta at Hartsville-Jackson will then meet to fi nalise a recommendation to the Board regarding the International Airport and had an opportunity to use fide-icing and towing appointment.
training simulators when they saw a demonstration of ASIGs computer-based There is a written framework for the induction of new directors training facilities.
In 2009 Board members also met with customers.
which includes site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its current and the provision of corporate documentation.
A personal induction directors, the identifi cation of individual development needs is best left to the programme is prepared for each new director tailored to the experience and individual directors discretion.
If any such needs became evident through the needs of the individual.
New directors are available to meet major annual performance evaluation, the director would be encouraged to pursue shareholders on request.
The Company will provide the necessary Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group provisions and continued satisfactory performance of duties following the Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors Boards annual performance evaluation.
Re-appointment for a further term is wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
In addition, in professional advice at the Companys expense.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all directors are subject The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect to re-election at least every three years.
of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has also entered into The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the indemnities with its directors as described on page 44 of this Directors Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
director is involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection by 7.
Performance Evaluation shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the In the autumn of 2009 the Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Companys registered offi ce.
Independent Director, led the performance evaluation and appraisal process for the Board, its members and its main Committees.
The Chairman discussed with each director individually their replies to a questionnaire they had previously completed concerning the Board, its Committees and their operation: progress made on the action points agreed following the 2008 Board performance evaluation process: and any concerns the director had and the directors own performance.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the other non-executive directors and taking into account the views of the executive directors, reviewed the performance of the Chairman and the performance evaluation and appraisal process as a whole.
Overall the conclusion from the Board evaluation and appraisal process was positive, with each individual director contributing actively to the eff ective performance of the Board and the Committees of which he is a member.
The Board discussed the main points arising from the evaluation at its December meeting and it was agreed that a more formal succession and development planning meeting would be held in 2010.
The Board benefi ted from customer and market analyst input prior to its annual strategy discussions in 2009.
The more structured timetable of presentations to the Board from each of the businesses within the Group and the increased communication between Board meetings, that had been introduced in 2008, was continued in 2009.
The positive progress against the objectives the Board had set itself in 2009 relating to strategy, cash forecasting, external perceptions of the Group, succession planning and corporate social responsibility has been reviewed and new objectives set for 2010.
