D Dir ire ec ct to ors rs Repor Report t Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the fair value of the consideration Accounting Policies paid over the fair value of the identifi able assets and liabilities acquired, is 38 Corporate Social Responsibility capitalised and tested for impairment on an annual basis.
Goodwill arising on Basis of Accounting acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management The fi financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standards then convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fi financial instruments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions between 1 January 1998 and 42 Financial Matters principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
31 December 2003 was amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful 44 Additional Disclosures The fi financial statements have been prepared on a going concern economic life, with a maximum life of 20 years, again in accordance with the 46 Directors Corporate basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the directors statement of accounting standards then in force.
As permitted by current accounting Governance Statement going concern on page 60 of the Directors Report.
standards, the goodwill previously written off to reserves or amortised through 52 Directors Remuneration The fi financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the profi t and loss account has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Report International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the Associated undertakings are those investments other than 60 Going Concern and European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise a Statement of Directors They have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the signifi cant infl uence, typically through participation in the fi financial and Responsibilities International Accounting Standards Board.
operating policy decisions of the investee.
The consolidated fi financial Financial statements One new Standard, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, issued by the statements include the Groups share of the post-acquisition reserves of all International Accounting Standards Board is eff ective for the current period.
61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA The principle change introduced in this Standard was the use of a managerial Aviation plc in respect of approach to identifying segments rather than the risks and returns approach Going Concern the consolidated financial used by the predecessor standard, IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
The adoption The directors have, at the time of approving the fi financial statements, a statements of this Standard has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 62 Consolidated income or any material changes to the Groups fi financial statements.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus statement In addition, the following amendments to existing Standards are they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 63 Consolidated balance sheet eff ective for the current period: the fi financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement 64 Consolidated cash flow of going concern on page 60 of the Directors Report.
statement IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Amended Reclassifi cation of Financial Assets 65 Consolidated statement of IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Amended Embedded Derivatives Investments comprehensive income IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements In the Groups fi financial statements, investments in associated undertakings 65 Consolidated statement of IAS 1 and IAS 27 Amended Cost of Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly are stated at cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves less changes in equity Controlled Entity or Associate provision for impairment.
6 66 6 A A c cc counting policies of ounting policies of IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs t the Gr he Group oup IFRS 2 Amended Vesting Conditions and Cancellations Foreign Currencies 69 Notes to the consolidated IFRS 7 Amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of financial statements IAS 32 Amended Puttable Instruments and Obligations Arising exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities 95 I ndependent auditors report on Liquidation denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at to the members of BBA the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a Aviation plc in respect of the The adoption of these Amendments has had no material impact on the change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised parent company financial Groups fi financial statements.
statements in the income statement.
Seven interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting The income statements of overseas operations are translated into 96 Company balance sheet Interpretations Committee are eff ective for the current period.
The seven sterling at the average exchange rates for the year and their balance sheets are 96 Accounting policies of adopted in the current year are: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
the Company Transactions: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer All exchange diff erences arising on consolidation are taken to equity.
All other 98 Notes to the Company Loyalty Programmes: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate: translation diff erences are taken to the income statement, with the exception financial statements IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation: IFRIC 17 of diff erences on foreign currency borrowing and derivative instruments to 102 Principal subsidiary Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets the extent that they are used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity undertakings from Customers.
The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any investments in overseas operations, which are taken to equity together with 103 Five year summary changes in the Groups accounting policies.
the exchange diff erence on the net investment in those operations.
104 Shareholder information At the date of authorisation of these fi financial statements, the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and fi financial statements were in issue but not yet eff ective: translated at the closing rate.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations Operating Profit IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Operating profi t is stated after charging exceptional items and after the share IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements of results of associates but before investment income and fi finance costs.
IAS 39 Amendment Eligible Hedged Items IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Derivative fi financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise interest rates The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and swaps, cross-currency or basis swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the fi financial instruments are used for hedging purposes to manage the risk profi le of an statements of the Group, except for the impact on accounting for business underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management combinations when the amendments to IFRS 3 become eff ective, which for policies.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair the Group will be the year ending 31 December 2010. value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure it Basis of Consolidation is designed to hedge.
The Group fi financial statements incorporate the fi financial statements of the The eff ective portion of gains or losses on cash fl ow hedges are parent company and all subsidiary undertakings under the acquisition deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the method of accounting.
The ineff ective portion of such gains and losses is The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the recognised in the income statement immediately, and is included in the other year are included in the consolidated income statement from the eff ective gains and losses line of the income statement.
date of acquisition or up to the eff ective date of disposal as appropriate.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the fi financial and operating policies of an investee so as to obtain benefi ts from activities.
66 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to Post-Retirement Benefits cash fl ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the Payments to defi ned contribution retirement benefi t schemes are charged as eff ective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the foreign currency an expense as they fall due.
The gain or loss relating to the ineff ective portion is For defi ned benefi t retirement benefi t schemes, the cost is recognised immediately, and is included in the operating profi t line of the determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations income statement.
Gains and losses deferred in the foreign currency translation being carried out annually on 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are reserve are recognised in profi t or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised Changes in the fair value of the derivative fi financial instruments outside profi t or loss and presented in the statement of comprehensive classifi ed as fair value through profi t or loss FVTPL and those that do not income.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the arise, and are included in the operating profi t line of the income statement.
benefi ts are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis Any interest earned or paid on fi financial instruments at FVTPL is charged to net over the average period until the benefi ts become vested.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 17.
The retirement benefi t obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defi ned benefi t obligation as adjusted for Financial Instruments unrecognised past service costs, and reduced by the fair value of scheme Financial assets and fi financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future instrument.
Financial assets are accounted for at the trade date.
Retirement benefi t scheme contribution levels are determined by Cash and cash equivalents valuations undertaken by independent qualifi ed actuaries.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed deposits, and other short-term highly-liquid investments that are readily convertible to a Property, Plant and Equipment known amount of cash and are subject to an insignifi cant risk of changes Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance sheet at cost less in value.
accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, plant and equipment less estimated residual Trade receivables value and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following estimated Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value useful lives of the assets: as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Land not depreciated Buildings 40 years maximum Financial liabilities and equity Plant and machinery including essential Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classifi ed according to the commissioning costs 3-18 years substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Tooling, vehicles, computer and offi ce equipment are categorised within plant and machinery.
Bank borrowings Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds major items of property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of those received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both fi finance costs payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted and expenditures for the asset are being incurred and activities that are for on an accrual basis to the profi t and loss account using eff ective interest necessary to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent when substantially all the activities that are necessary to get the asset ready that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade payables Impairment of Assets Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication Equity instruments that those assets have suff ered an impairment loss.
If any such indication Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine received, net of direct issue costs.
the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash fl ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the Revenue Recognition recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or An intangible asset with an indefi nite life is tested for impairment annually and receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
services provided by the Group excluding intercompany transactions, sales by Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and associated undertakings and sales taxes.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash fl ows are Within the engine overhauls business, turnover and associated discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that refl ects profi t are recognised on a percentage of completion basis once the terms of current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specifi c to the contract have been agreed with the customer and the ultimate the asset for which the estimates of future cash fl ows have not been adjusted.
profi tability of the contract can be determined with reasonable certainty.
The If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is percentage of completion is based on hours incurred.
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An Research and Development Expenditure impairment loss is recognised immediately.
Research expenditure is charged against income in the year in which it is Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate development expenditure is recognised only if the asset can be separately of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not identifi ed, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefi ts exceed the carrying amount that would not have been determined had no and the development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Consolidated Financial Statements 67 D Dir ire ec ct to ors rs Repor Report t basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the Accounting Policies continued assets concerned.
The capital elements of future leases are recorded as 38 Corporate Social Responsibility liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the income statement Intangible Assets over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management Licences are shown at amortised cost.
Amortisation provided on the cost of balance of capital payments outstanding.
licences is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the licences.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are 42 Financial Matters Where a licence has an indefi nite life, the licence is not amortised until such charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lives of 44 Additional Disclosures time as the remaining life of the associated platform is estimated to be the leases.
46 Directors Corporate 20 years, at which point amortisation commences over the remaining useful Governance Statement life of the licence.
Inventory 52 Directors Remuneration Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises Report computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Computer the cost of raw materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and 60 Going Concern and software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring overheads in the case of work in progress and fi nished goods.
Cost is calculated Statement of Directors to use the specifi c software.
Amortisation is provided on the cost of software using the fi first in fi first out method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted Responsibilities and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.
average method in the Aftermarket Services and Systems segment.
Provision is Financial statements The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets made for slow-moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the 61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and its fair Taxation Aviation plc in respect of value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of The charge for taxation is based on the profi t for the year and takes into the consolidated financial the asset and is calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
account taxation deferred due to temporary diff erences between the statements treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current tax 62 Consolidated income Provisions is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or substantially enacted at statement Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or the balance sheet date.
63 Consolidated balance sheet constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on 64 Consolidated cash flow required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the diff erences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statement amount of the obligation.
fi financial statements and the corresponding tax bases in the computation of 65 Consolidated statement of The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the taxable profi t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
comprehensive income consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet No provision is made for temporary diff erences on unremitted 65 Consolidated statement of date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates where the Group changes in equity obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash fl ows estimated to has control and the reversal of the temporary diff erence is not foreseeable.
6 66 6 A A c cc counting policies of ounting policies of settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each t the Gr he Group oup cash fl ows.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 6 69 9 Not N otes t es to the c o the consolidat onsolidated ed When some or all of the economic benefi ts required to settle a that suffi cient taxable profi ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to f financial stat inancial statements ements provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is be recovered.
95 Independent auditors report recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been enacted or to the members of BBA received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply Aviation plc in respect of the in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is parent company financial Restructurings statements charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a charged or credited to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with 96 Company balance sheet detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in in equity.
96 Accounting policies of those aff ected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the Company the plan or announcing its main features to those aff ected by it.
The Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty 98 Notes to the Company measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of financial statements expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a signifi cant risk of 102 Principal subsidiary both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities undertakings ongoing activities of the entity.
within the next fi financial year, are discussed below.
The judgements used by 103 Five year summary management in the application of the Groups accounting policies in respect 104 Shareholder information Onerous Contracts of these key areas of estimation are considered to be the most signifi cant.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible fi xed assets Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the Determining whether goodwill, intangible or tangible fi xed assets are obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefi ts expected to be impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating received under it.
units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate future cash fl ows Share-Based Payments expected to arise from the cash generating unit or asset and a suitable The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled share-based discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of compensation plans.
The fair value of the compensation is recognised in the goodwill, intangible and tangible fi xed assets at the balance sheet date was income statement as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the 474.9 million, 98.1 million and 334.7 million respectively.
Details regarding vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options the goodwill and tangible fi xed asset carrying value and assumptions used in granted and calculated using the valuation technique most appropriate to carrying out the impairment reviews are provided in notes 8 and 9. each type of award.
These include Black-Scholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled options, the fair value of the option is revisited at Pensions and other post-retirement benefi ts each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group Determining the present value of future obligations of pension and other revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become post-retirement benefi t schemes requires an estimation of future mortality exercisable at each balance sheet date.
rates, future changes in employee benefi ts and length of service.
These assumptions are determined in association with qualifi ed actuaries.
The net Leases pension liability related to defi ned benefi t type schemes at the balance sheet Where assets are fi nanced by lease agreements that give rights similar to date was 33.2 million.
Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions ownership fi finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been used in arriving at the carrying values are provided in note 19. purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are written off on a straight-line 68
