Nomination Committee Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued Composition 38 Corporate Social Responsibility The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2009 is set out in the 8.
The Nomination Committee comprised two executive directors 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee and four non-executive directors.
Written terms of reference for each Committee are 42 Financial Matters During Year available on request and are posted on the Companys website.
44 Additional Disclosures 01 01 09 Resigned Appointed 31 12 09 24 02 10 446 6 Dir Direc ect tors ors C Corporat orporate e a. Remuneration Committee John Roques G Go ov vernanc ernance Stat e Statement ement Composition Chairman 52 Directors Remuneration The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2009 is set out in Michael Harper Report the table below.
All committee members are non-executive directors.
Mark Simon Pryce 60 Going C oncern and Harper, Michael Harper, Nick Land, John Roques and Hansel Tookes were on Andrew Wood Statement of Directors the Committee at the time of determining remuneration for the year ended Responsibilities Mark Harper 31 December 2009.
Nick Land F Financial stat inancial statements ements During Year 61 Independent auditors report 01 01 09 Resigned Appointed 31 12 09 24 02 10 Other directors may attend Nomination Committee meetings by invitation.
to the members of BBA The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2009 the Committee Aviation plc in respect of Mark Harper the consolidated financial had one formal meeting, following consultation with all Committee Chairman statements members.
This was supplemented by informal meetings, individual briefi ngs Michael Harper 5 10 09 62 Consolidated income and meetings between Committee members.
Nick Land statement Peter Ratcliffe 09 01 09 63 Consolidated balance sheet Role John Roques The principal role of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board 64 Consolidated cash flow Hansel Tookes statement on the appointment of the Companys executive and non-executive directors.
It is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fi ll Board 65 Consolidated statement of During 2009 the Remuneration Committee met formally on six occasions.
In making appointments, the Committee evaluates the balance of These meetings were attended by all Committee members and minuted by skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and in the light of this 65 Consolidated statement of the Group Secretary.
During the year the voting advisory service RREV changes in equity evaluation considers the capabilities required for the role and, in the case of a expressed concerns that Michael Harper had been, on a temporary and non-executive appointment, the time available to fulfi l the role.
Use is made 66 Accounting policies of interim basis, an executive director between February 2006 and June 2007 the Group of independent search consultants and the fi final appointment rests with the and was therefore not independent.
The Board believes Michael Harper to full Board.
More information on the role of the Nomination Committee is set 69 Notes to the consolidated be an appropriate member of the Remuneration Committee.
However, to financial statements out in section 5 Board Appointments above.
avoid shareholders being distracted by RREVs concerns, Michael Harper Details regarding the Audit Committee are set out in section 9a on 95 Independent auditors report resigned from the Committee on 5 October 2009.
Executive directors, the page 49. to the members of BBA Aviation plc in respect of the Group HR Director and now Michael Harper may attend Remuneration parent company financial Committee meetings by invitation.
statements 96 Company balance sheet Role 96 Accounting policies of The Committee has two principal functions: fi first, making recommendations the Company to the Board on the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of 98 Notes to the Company executive directors and other designated senior executives and second, financial statements determining on behalf of the Board the specifi c remuneration package for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any 102 Principal subsidiary undertakings compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for discussing and 103 Five year summary agreeing a compensation policy for the Group.
In conjunction with the Group 104 Shareholder information Chief Executive and Group HR Director, the Committee is tasked with developing a broad compensation framework for senior management and for reviewing the remuneration for certain senior executives.
The specifi c application of this policy and framework to each senior executive is the responsibility of the Group Chief Executive.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
