A ll signifi cant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are 10.
Shareholder Relations approved by the Board.
The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate governance developments and the views of BBA Aviations major shareholders.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures concerning: achieved in 2009 through regular meetings between the Group Chief business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainments, equal Executive, the Group Finance Director and major shareholders, which are then opportunities and anti-harassment guidelines, competition law, legal reported to the Board as a whole.
The Board also receives formal written policy, market disclosure and communications and share dealing.
A bireports from its brokers regarding the views of its principal shareholders annual review of compliance with such policies by Group companies is following its preliminary and half yearly results announcements and at other carried out and senior executives are also required to confi rm compliance times as appropriate.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior with certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are complemented by Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders and in divisional and company-led initiatives and are supplemented by the addition, prior to the AGM in 2009, the Chairman also contacted the principal Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy which includes a 24-hour shareholders at that time, formally off ering them the opportunity to raise any hotline available to all employees, supported by a formal investigation issues or questions.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, protocol and regular reporting to the Audit Committee.
including its current Senior Independent Director, John Roques, have a good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as 12.
A G roup Safety Management System Manual details policies, standards required by the Combined Code.
and procedures which are applicable throughout the Group.
Further A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund details about Health, Safety and Environmental HSE matters are set out managers and analysts takes place each year.
The directors seek to encourage on page 38 under Corporate Social Responsibility and on the BBA a continuing dialogue.
The Company maintains contact as required with its Aviation website.
Annual self-assessment and or audits are carried out at principal shareholders about directors remuneration in the same way as for company level against the Group standards.
An executive summary HSE other matters.
The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate report is reviewed at each meeting of the Executive Management with private investors.
It is intended that notice of the AGM and related papers Committee.
The Board also receives this summary HSE report in addition are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Michael to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Group companies Harper as Chairman of the Board, John Roques as Chairman of the Nomination and are prepared by the internal Group HSE function.
Senior managers Committee and Senior Independent Director, Nick Land as Chairman of the performance and related fi financial incentives are tied in part to their Audit Committee and Mark Harper as Chairman of the Remuneration success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
Committee and CSR Responsible Director will each be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting fi gures for, against, at discretion and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by the Board on 24 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Zillah Stone Group Secretary Directors Report 51
