Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Report The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that executive directors and 38 Corporate Social Responsibility other senior executives remuneration properly refl ects their duties and This report covers the remuneration policy for directors and includes specifi c responsibilities and is suffi cient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management disclosures relating to directors emoluments, their shares and other interests.
senior management capable collectively of delivering the goals of the It has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Large and Company.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a signifi cant element 42 Financial Matters Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations of executive directors remuneration should be linked to performance-related 44 Additional Disclosures 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
long-term incentives and accordingly remuneration plans were developed to 46 Directors Corporate This report is being put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for take due account of market and best practice at the time of their Governance Statement an advisory vote.
Information in this report is unaudited other than that which establishment in 2006 when the Company demerged.
As mentioned in the 552 2 DDir irec ect tors ors Remuneration Remuneration is required to be audited and that is stated as such in the relevant table.
Annual Report 2008, during 2009 a review of the structure of the total R Repor eport t remuneration packages for senior executives was conducted.
Remuneration Committee representing over 45% of the Companys share register were consulted about Statement of Directors Although the Board considers itself ultimately responsible for both the a number of changes designed to better align executive remuneration with Responsibilities framework and the cost of executive remuneration, it has delegated prime the strategic objectives of the Group and the interests of the shareholders.
As F Financial stat inancial statements ements responsibility for executive remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
a result, a number of changes are being introduced in 2010 to the structure The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board and balance of the key elements of the Companys remuneration package.
61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
Its meetings are minuted by These are summarised below and are also cross referred to in the relevant Aviation plc in respect of the Group Secretary.
Details of the Committees membership are set out on sections of this Remuneration Report.
It is responsible for determining executive directors remuneration statements and reviewing proposals in respect of other senior executives.
The Committee T he annual bonus opportunity will increase from 100% to 125% of salary for 62 Consolidated income also determines targets for short-term incentive plans and performanceexecutive directors but with half of any bonus payable compulsorily statement related share schemes operated by the Company and oversees any major deferred into shares which are forfeitable if the individual leaves prior to the 63 Consolidated balance sheet changes in employee benefi t structures throughout the Group.
Further vesting date vesting being phased over three years.
This compares with a 64 Consolidated cash flow details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 48. compulsory bonus deferral into shares of 25% of bonus paid under the 2009 statement In 2009 the Remuneration Committee appointed Watson Wyatt bonus plan with no forfeiture provisions.
The doubling of the amount of the 65 Consolidated statement of Limited now Towers Watson to provide independent advice and assist the annual bonus required to be deferred into shares reduces the cash value of comprehensive income Committee in carrying out its responsibilities.
Towers Watson advises the the annual bonus, deferring the full benefi t of any annual bonus payable for 65 Consolidated statement of Remuneration Committee in relation to remuneration strategy and during a further three years.
The 2010 annual bonus will not be fully paid out until changes in equity 2009 provided the Committee with benchmarking information about 2014, a year later than any share awards made in 2010 under the Long-Term 66 Accounting policies of individuals within the remit of the Committee, background information about Incentive Plan would vest.
the Group remuneration trends and calculations of total shareholder return in 69 Notes to the consolidated connection with the BBA 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2006 There will continue to be the opportunity for additional voluntary deferral of financial statements Deferred Bonus Plan and advised on a number of alternative proposals for bonus but it will be expanded to enable up to 100% instead of the current 95 Independent auditors report possible changes to the Companys remuneration plans.
50% of any cash bonus payable to be deferred into shares.
Any voluntarily to the members of BBA Towers Watson also provides advice to the Company in respect of deferred portion of bonus would be held as shares in the Employee Benefi t Aviation plc in respect of the individuals outside the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee Trust on behalf of the participants, without any forfeiture provisions.
parent company financial statements and on human resource policies, including benchmarking information and advice on healthcare and benefi ts provision and pension administration B onus deferred into shares whether compulsorily or voluntarily will benefi t 96 Company balance sheet services and in 2009 also provided some benchmarking information as currently from a matching award of shares up to a maximum of 1:1.
The 96 Accounting policies of about non-executive directors fees.
Towers Watson is a member of the applicable performance condition for those awards made in 2011 in respect the Company Remuneration Consultants Group and is committed to that Groups voluntary of 2010 bonus payments will be based on the more relevant Company 98 Notes to the Company code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK.
fi financial measure of return on invested capital ROIC.
Targets will be agreed financial statements During 2009 the Committee also consulted the Group Chief at the time of award for the relevant three-year performance period by the 102 Principal subsidiary Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group HR Director and the Group Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board, based on the Companys undertakings Secretary in connection with the Committees work, although not directly in strategic plan and the Companys estimated cost of capital.
Matching awards 103 Five year summary connection with their own remuneration, and has consulted extensively with will continue to lapse except in certain agreed situations, such as 104 Shareholder information Michael Harper, since 5 October 2009 when he has no longer been a member redundancy if the individual leaves prior to the vesting date.
of the Remuneration Committee as explained in more detail on page 48 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
It is expected that the Committee will T he size of future awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan will be wish to continue to consult them in 2010. reduced to a face value of half base salary for executive directors other than Simon Pryce for whom the award will be reduced to one times face value of base salary.
This change is made in conjunction with the increase in bonus potential and increase in compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
These awards too will continue to lapse except in certain agreed situations, such as redundancy if the individual leaves prior to the vesting date.
The performance conditions for the three-year performance period will be solely earnings per share EPS based and will be set at the beginning of each performance period.
A ll unvested awards to Executive Management Committee members will be subject to explicit provisions in the event of material fi financial misstatement.
