51 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, including International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by S. 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The financial statements have been prepared in Sterling rounded to the nearest thousand under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
The measurement bases and principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
These accounting policies are consistent with those applied in the year to 31 March 2008, as amended to reflect any new Standards, Amendments to Standards and interpretations which are mandatory for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Status of Adoption of Significant New or Amended IFRS Standards or Interpretations The Group has not adopted any new or amended IFRS standards or interpretations in the year.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued but are not yet effective.
They will be adopted at the point they are effective: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised 2008 effective 1 January 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments - Vesting Conditions and Cancellations effective 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Eligible Hedged Items effective 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Improving Disclosures About Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2009 Embedded Derivatives - Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRIC 9 effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009 IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective 1 January 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective 1 October 2008 Helical does not anticipate any material impact on adopting the above other than in the presentation of accounts under the revised requirements of IAS 1.
Principal accounting policies Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of Helical Bar plc the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings together the Group drawn up to 31 March 2009.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies through the exercise of voting rights.
Subsidiaries are accounted for under the purchase method and are held in the Company balance sheet at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
Joint Ventures are entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other ventures independent of the Group and are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under IFRS the Groups share of the results and of the net assets of the joint ventures are shown in the Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet Balance Sheet respectively.
Under IFRS the Companys cost of investment in joint ventures is shown in the Company Balance Sheet.
Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence but which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains on transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Going concern The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Financial Review on pages 23 to 25.
Revenue recognition Rental income - rental income receivable is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentive for lessees to enter into a lease agreement and any costs associated with entering into the lease are spread over the same period.
Sale of goods - assets, such as trading properties, development sites and completed developments, are regarded as sold upon the transfer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the purchaser, in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
This occurs on exchange of unconditional contracts for the sale of the site, on satisfaction of any and all conditions on a conditional contract for the sale of the site or on completion of the contract on a conditional sale where those conditions are satisfied at completion.
Measurements of revenue arising from the sale of such assets is derived from the fair value of the consideration received in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Construction contracts - where an asset is constructed under a specific contract with a purchaser a pre-sold development the initial sale of the 52 site to that purchaser is recognised as a sale of goods in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
The construction element of the contract is treated, for the purposes of revenue recognition, as a construction contract in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion which is typically determined by reference to project appraisals, normally supported by independent valuation certificates provided by quantity surveyors.
The Companys principal other responsibility on pre-sold developments is the identification of and agreement of terms with potential tenants of the completed building s. The revenue recognition of this additional component of the funding agreements is considered separately to reflect the substance of the transaction as the rendering of services, in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
The amount of revenue recognised is determined by reference to the percentage of the building s that are let.
Investment income - revenue in respect of investment and other income represents investment income, fees and commissions earned on an accruals basis and the fair value of the consideration received receivable on investments held for the short-term.
Dividends are recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has been established.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Share-based payments The Group provides share-based payments in the form of share options, performance share plan awards and a share incentive plan.
These payments are discussed in greater detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42.
The fair value of share-based payments related to employees service are determined indirectly by reference to the fair value of the related instrument at the grant date.
All sharebased payment arrangements granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested prior to 1 January 2005 are recognised in the financial statements.
The Group uses the stochastic valuation model and the resulting value is amortised through the Consolidated Income Statement Income Statement over the vesting period of the share-based payments.
For the performance share plan and share incentive plan awards, where non-market conditions apply, the expense is allocated, over the vesting period, to the Income Statement based on the best available estimate of the number of awards that are expected to vest.
Estimates are subsequently revised if there is any indication that the number of awards expected to vest differs from previous estimates.
Depreciation In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property, depreciation is not provided for on freehold investment properties or on leasehold investment properties.
The Group does not own the freehold land and buildings which it occupies.
Costs incurred in respect of leasehold improvements to the Groups head office at 11-15 Farm Street, London W1J 5RS are capitalised and held as short-term leasehold improvements.
Leasehold improvements, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Residual values are reassessed annually.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets less residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Short leasehold improvements 10% or length of lease, if shorter Plant and equipment 25% Taxation The taxation charge represents the sum of tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax payable upon realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects the tax consequences of the manner in which Helical expects, at the balance sheet date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of those assets and liabilities.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
The deferred tax asset relating to share based payment awards reflects the estimated value of tax relief available on the vesting of the awards at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
It is recognised in the Income Statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The Group recognises a deferred tax liability for all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except to the extent that both of the following conditions are satisfied: a the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference: and, b it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Notes to the financial statements Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009 Dividends 53 Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which dividends are approved.
Investment properties Investment properties are properties owned or leased by the Group which are held for long-term rental income and for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are initially recognised at cost, including associated transaction costs, and revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value.
These fair values are based on market values as determined by professionally qualified external valuers.
In accordance with IAS 40, investment properties held under leases are stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included as gains or losses on revaluation in the Income Statement of the period in which they arise.
In accordance with IAS 40, as the Group uses the fair value model, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as an investment property, but which had not previously been classified as such, is classified as investment property under development within property, plant and equipment.
It is recognised initially at cost but is subsequently remeasured to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss on remeasurement is taken direct to equity unless any loss in the period exceeds any net cumulative gain previously recognised in equity, in which case, the amount by which the loss in the period exceeds the cumulative gain previously recognised is taken to the Income Statement.
On completion, the property is transferred to investment property with final remeasurement accounted for in accordance with this policy.
When the Group redevelops an existing investment property for continued future use as investment property, the property remains an investment property measured at fair value and is not reclassified.
Interest is capitalised before tax relief until the date of practical completion.
Gross borrowing costs associated with expenditure on properties under development or undergoing major refurbishment are capitalised.
The interest capitalised is calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowings.
Interest is capitalised from the date of commencement of the development work until date of practical completion.
Details of the valuation of investment properties can be found in note 15.
Goodwill Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired, is capitalised and reviewed annually for impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Negative goodwill is recognised immediately after acquisition in the Income Statement.
Land, developments and trading properties Land, developments and trading properties held for sale are inventory and are included in the Balance Sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Investments Available-for-sale investments are revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity except to the extent that losses are attributable to impairment, in which case they are recognised in the Income Statement.
Upon disposal, accumulated fair value adjustments are included in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Balance Sheet at amortised cost.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Borrowing and borrowing costs Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of finance and other costs yet to be amortised.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of new developments and investment properties are added to the costs of such properties until the date of completion of the development or investment.
After initial recognition borrowings are carried at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate caps and floors in order to manage the risks arising from its activities.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value and are subsequently remeasured to fair value based on market prices, estimated future cash flows and forward rates as appropriate.
Any change in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Further information on the categorisation of financial instruments can be found in note 23.
Leases Leases are classified according to the substance of the transaction.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee is classified as a finance lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Notes to the financial statements Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
