In accordance with IAS 40, finance leases of investment property are accounted for as finance leases and recognised as an asset and an 54 obligation to pay future minimum lease payments.
The investment property asset is included in the balance sheet at fair value, gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Lease payments are allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant financing rate.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Any exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recorded are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expenses to the extent that they relate to a gain or loss on that non-monetary item which is included in the statement of recognised income and expenses, otherwise such gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities in the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the actual rate.
The exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries are taken directly to retained earnings in equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation the cumulative translation differences including, if applicable, gains and losses on related hedges are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Net asset values per share Net asset values per share have been calculated in accordance with the best practice recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
Loss earnings per share Loss earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 and the best practice recommendations of EPRA.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust Shares held in the Helical Bar Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP are shown as a deduction in arriving at equity funds.
Assets, liabilities and reserves of the ESOP are included in the statutory headings to which they relate.
Purchases and sales of own shares increase or decrease the book value of Own shares held in the Balance Sheet.
At each period end the Group assesses and recognises the fair value of Own shares held and accounts for movement between book value and fair value as a reserves transfer.
Use of estimates and judgements To be able to prepare accounts according to generally accepted accounting principles, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the asset and liability items and revenue and expense amounts recorded in the financial accounts.
These estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that management and the Board of Directors believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these considerations form the basis for making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Areas requiring the use of estimates and critical judgement that may significantly impact on the Groups earnings and financial position are: revenue on construction contracts where the valuation is spread over the construction period using estimates of the final outcome note 3 : valuation of investment properties, where external valuers are used to provide third party valuations note 15 : valuation of recently acquired investment properties, where a directors valuation is used based on current market values note 15 : calculation of deferred tax liabilities, where indexation is used to reduce the provision for deferred tax on revaluation surpluses note 11 : recognition of share-based payments which is dependent upon the estimated number of performance share plan awards that will vest at the end of the performance periods note 31 : calculation and assessment of recoverability of deferred tax assets, where it has been assumed that the performance share plan awards will be tax deductible on the vesting of the share awards note 11 : valuation of the investment in Quotient Bioscience Group Limited, which is based on a valuation method note 18 : valuation of the investment in a property developer which is based on a valuation method note 18 : use of the euro as of the functional currency of the operations in Poland: and directors valuation of land, development and trading properties include subjective assumptions including the result of future planning decisions and future sales values and timings note 22.
Segmental information Investment Investment and trading Developments Total and trading Developments Total Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.3.
Notes to the financial statements Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
