51 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, including International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by S. 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present a separate income statement for the parent company.
The financial statements have been prepared in Sterling rounded to the nearest thousand under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of investment properties, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments.
The measurement bases and principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
These accounting policies are consistent with those applied in the year to 31 March 2008, as amended to reflect any new Standards, Amendments to Standards and interpretations which are mandatory for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Status of Adoption of Significant New or Amended IFRS Standards or Interpretations The Group has not adopted any new or amended IFRS standards or interpretations in the year.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued but are not yet effective.
They will be adopted at the point they are effective: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 2007 effective 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Revised 2008 effective 1 January 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments - Vesting Conditions and Cancellations effective 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Eligible Hedged Items effective 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Improving Disclosures About Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2009 Embedded Derivatives - Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRIC 9 effective for annual periods ending on or after 30 June 2009 IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 effective 1 July 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate effective 1 January 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation effective 1 October 2008 Helical does not anticipate any material impact on adopting the above other than in the presentation of accounts under the revised requirements of IAS 1.
Principal accounting policies Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of Helical Bar plc the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings together the Group drawn up to 31 March 2009.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities over which the Group has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies through the exercise of voting rights.
Subsidiaries are accounted for under the purchase method and are held in the Company balance sheet at cost and reviewed annually for impairment.
Joint Ventures are entities whose economic activities are controlled jointly by the Group and by other ventures independent of the Group and are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under IFRS the Groups share of the results and of the net assets of the joint ventures are shown in the Income Statement and Consolidated Balance Sheet Balance Sheet respectively.
Under IFRS the Companys cost of investment in joint ventures is shown in the Company Balance Sheet.
Associates are those entities over which the Group has significant influence but which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains on transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Going concern The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Financial Review on pages 23 to 25.
Revenue recognition Rental income - rental income receivable is recognised in the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentive for lessees to enter into a lease agreement and any costs associated with entering into the lease are spread over the same period.
Sale of goods - assets, such as trading properties, development sites and completed developments, are regarded as sold upon the transfer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the purchaser, in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
This occurs on exchange of unconditional contracts for the sale of the site, on satisfaction of any and all conditions on a conditional contract for the sale of the site or on completion of the contract on a conditional sale where those conditions are satisfied at completion.
Measurements of revenue arising from the sale of such assets is derived from the fair value of the consideration received in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
