Bellway p. l. c. 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Operating Risk Statement Risk is a natural part of any business.
The management of risk is a key operating component for the Group.
The manner in which this is carried out is very important to the long-term success of the business.
The Group has identified, evaluated and put in place strategies to mitigate the principal risks faced by the business, shown in the table below: Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Land Inability to source suitable land at satisfactory Endeavour to ensure that a land bank with planning permission for at p margins would have a detrimental effect on least three years construction programme is in place on a rolling basis.
the Groups land bank and consequently, its Thorough pre-purchase due diligence and viability assessments.
Authorisation of land purchases in line with robust Group procedures.
p Delays and the increasing complexity of the Planning Centralised and regional planning personnel provide advice and p planning process hampers and slows the support to divisions to assist with progressing the planning Groups growth prospects.
Ensuring that the effects of any diminution in Sales In consultation with Head Office, local divisional management p the size of the market place, the ability of determines product range and pricing strategy commensurate with prospective customers to access credit regional market conditions.
facilities or the sales prices achieved are Use of sales incentives where appropriate to encourage selling process, p managed in such a way as to limit any such as part exchange, try before you buy, shared ownership etc.
adverse financial or operational effects on the Groups performance.
Use of government-backed schemes to encourage home ownership p where appropriate, such as HomeBuy Direct.
Ensure that construction rates are managed and equate to sales achieved.
p Ensuring that appropriately skilled personnel Construction Identifying training needs and allocating appropriate resources p are available and that suitable materials are to training.
also available at the right price.
Ensure systems are in place for engagement of and monitoring p and control of work carried out by sub-contractors.
Ensuring competitive reward systems are in place.
p Group purchasing arrangements in place to secure materials p at competitive prices.
Housebuilding has a significant effect on the Environment It is our objective to ensure that at the conclusion of a development p environment.
It is important that the effects an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created of the Groups developments are, as far as that will continue over time.
See our Environmental Policy on possible, positive rather than negative.
pages 18 and 19 for further information.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Area of Risk Area of Risk Description of Risk Mitigation of Risk Health and It is important to ensure that the Group has The Board considers health and safety issues at each Board meeting.
p adequate systems in place to mitigate, as far Safety Regular visits to sites by senior management independent of our p as possible, the dangers inherent in the divisions and external consultants to monitor health and safety construction process.
standards and performance against the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
Attracting and retaining suitable personnel Personnel The Group offers a competitive salary and benefits package.
p is key to the Groups long-term success.
Divisional training plans in place.
p Failure to do so will severely affect the Groups ability to perform in a highly Succession planning for key posts.
96% of site based personnel are fully accredited under CSCS.
p Information It is vital that the Group has suitable systems Group-wide systems in place which are centrally controlled with p in place to ensure that, as far as possible, outsourced support function in place.
and Reporting a smooth flow of information operates Systems throughout the Group and that the risk of system loss is mitigated and supported by appropriate contingency plans.
The way in which the Group carries out its Asset The Group prepares viability assessments on all of its land purchases p operations can have a material effect on the and construction projects, and keeps these under regular review to Protection value of its assets.
protect, wherever possible, the value of its assets.
Ensuring suitable financial resources at Treasury Central negotiation and control of banking facilities to ensure liquidity p appropriate costs are in place to meet and debt levels are appropriate.
Facilities distributed across various sources.
p Careful monitoring of cash forecasts.
p Legal and Failure to comply with current laws and Central secretariat and legal functions advise divisions on compliance p regulations or to have appropriately worded and ensure policies and procedures are kept up to date to minimise Regulatory contracts in place could expose the Group risk of non-compliance.
Compliance to disadvantageous contractual obligations, regulatory fines and adverse publicity.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
