Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 77 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting AGM This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Special business Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolution 10 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,032,058, which is equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 12 October 2009, and also gives the directors authority to allot, by way of rights issue only, ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 10,064,116, which is equivalent to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 12 October 2009, such authority, if granted, to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2011.
As at 12 October 2009 the Company held no shares as treasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authority to satisfy the exercise of awards under the Companys share schemes.
The directors wish to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made if required and if suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Resolution 11 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This is a special resolution and is the customary annual request, in substitution for the authority granted to the directors by shareholders on 16 January 2009 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, that shareholders empower the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 a in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 754,809, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 12 October 2009.
Resolution 12 Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
This authority was not used during the year.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the 2011 AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
Resolution 13 Adoption of new Articles of Association The Company proposes, as a special resolution, to adopt new Articles of Association the new Articles at the forthcoming AGM.
These incorporate amendments to the current Articles to reflect the changes brought about by the Companies Act 2006 which came into effect on 1 October 2009, and by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations which came into force on 3 August 2009.
A summary of the amendments is set out on page 78.
A copy of the current Articles and of the new Articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Dickinson Dees LLP, Gate House, 1 Farringdon Street, London EC4M 7LG from the date of publication of this notice until the close of the AGM and on the Companys website www.
These documents will also be available for inspection during the AGM and for at least 15 minutes before it begins.
Resolution 14 Length of notice of meeting The Companies Act 2006 was amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009 to increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 days.
This resolution is therefore proposed as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum notice period for all general meetings of the Company, other than AGMs.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
Recommendation Your directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Bellway p. l. c. 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Shareholder Information continued Summary of proposed amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The principal amendments introduced in the new Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 the Act or the Shareholders Rights Regulations have not been noted below.
A copy of the new Articles showing all the changes to the current Articles is available for inspection as indicated above.
a Objects The Companys memorandum of association contains the objects clause which sets out the scope of activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
The Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, its objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
Resolution 13 a removes the objects clause together with any other parts of the memorandum which, because of the Act, are treated as forming part of the Articles.
The new Articles contain a statement about the limited liability of shareholders as this Resolution removes this statement from the memorandum.
b Authorised share capital The Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the new Articles reflect this.
The directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, except in respect of employee share schemes.
c Share transfers Under the Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement and has therefore been removed.
In addition, directors are now obliged to give reasons for any refusal to register a share transfer and the new Articles amend the current Articles to reflect this.
d Adjournment for lack of quorum Under the Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least ten clear days after the original meeting.
The new Articles reflect this requirement.
e Chairmans casting vote The new Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote at general meetings in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the Act.
f Multiple proxies The Act provides that, where a member appoints more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
The new Articles reflect this.
g Corporate representatives The new Articles remove provisions in the current Articles dealing with voting by corporate representatives on the basis that these are dealt with in the Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
h Directors conflict of interests Under the Act the directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The new Articles update the provisions allowing the directors to authorise such conflicts or potential conflicts in line with the requirements of the Act.
They also contain provisions about confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply following authorisation of the potential conflict by the directors.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 79 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Takeovers Directive Where not provided in the Directors Report the following sets out the information required to be provided to shareholders in compliance with the Takeovers Directive.
Share capital The Companys total issued ordinary and preference share capital as at 31 July 2009 consisted of 115,006,480 ordinary shares of 12.5p each representing 42% of the Companys total issued share capital and 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each representing 58% of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company and brief details of the rights in relation to the preference shares can be found in notes 18 and 15 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares in the Company are set out in the Articles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In addition, in compliance with the FSA Listing Rules, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and their connected persons to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the employee benefit trust in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Companys Articles.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles and are summarised in the Directors Report on pages 30 and 32.
Amendments to the Companys Articles The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not by law or by the Articles required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and at which a quorum is present.
Allotment of shares During the year 55,565 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes.
After the year end, on 6 August 2009, the Company placed 5,747,648 new ordinary shares with new and existing institutional shareholders, representing approximately 5% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital at that time.
The directors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 77, and Resolutions 10 and 11 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 15 January 2010 on pages 81 and 82 seek to renew this authority.
Purchase of own shares The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the year.
The directors have authority to purchase the Companys own shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 77, and Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 15 January 2010 on page 82 seeks to renew this authority.
Significant agreements change of control provisions The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which may be terminable in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Agreements for compensation for loss of office following a change of control The service agreements between the Company and the executive directors and the Group Company Secretary contain provisions that entitle the individual to terminate the agreement following a takeover offer and receive an amount equivalent to one years salary, benefits and the average amount of the last two years annual bonus payment.
Financial calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments at the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Bellway p. l. c. 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Shareholder Information continued Financial calendar continued Annual report posted to shareholders November Final ordinary dividend ex-dividend date 9 December 2009 Final ordinary dividend record date 11 December 2009 AGM 15 January 2010 Final ordinary dividend payment date 20 January 2010 Shareholders by size of holding at 31 July 2009 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 2,000 2,149 71.75 1,395,324 1.21 2,001 10,000 475 15.86 1,956,770 1.71 10,001 50,000 174 5.81 4,546,761 3.95 50,001 and over 197 6.58 107,107,625 93.13 Total 2,995 100.0 115,006,480 100.0 Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
For further information please e-mail Capita Registrars Limited at shares@capitaregistrars.
com or telephone 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
If calling from overseas please call 44 208 639 3399.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm on Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Registrars Limited, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, or call 0871 458 4577 for telephone dealing.
Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 2,000 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and b you inform our sales representative on-site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
Underlying beneficial shareholders would be entitled to benefit from the arrangements.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail kevin.
Beneficial owners of shares with information rights Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars Limited, or to the Company directly.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 is available to view on the Companys website www.
