Savills plc 54 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2009 1.
General information Subsidiaries The Groups share of its associates postacquisition profits or losses is recognised in Savills plc the Company and its A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the the income statement and its share of postsubsidiaries together the Group is a Group, where control is the power to acquisition movements in reserves is leading international property advisory govern the financial and operating policies recognised in reserves.
The Group operates through a generally accompanying a shareholding post-acquisition movements are adjusted network of offices in the UK, Europe, Asia of more than half of the voting rights.
against the carrying amount of the Pacific and the US.
Savills is listed on the The existence and effect of potential voting investment.
London Stock Exchange and employs rights that are currently exercisable and 19,948 staff worldwide.
convertible are considered when assessing Accounting policies of associates have whether the Group controls another entity.
been aligned to ensure consistency with The Company is a public limited company the policies adopted by the Group.
Gains incorporated and domiciled in England and The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted and losses on dilution of the Groups share Wales.
The address of its registered office is for using the purchase method.
The results of equity in associates are recognised in the 20 Grosvenor Hill, Berkeley Square, of subsidiary undertakings acquired during income statement.
the period are included from the date of acquisition.
For the purpose of Joint ventures These consolidated financial statements consolidation, the purchase consideration were approved for issue by the Board of A joint venture is a contractual arrangement is allocated between the underlying net Directors on 17 March 2010. whereby two or more parties undertake assets acquired, including contingent an economic activity that is subject to 2.
Accounting policies liabilities and intangible assets other than joint control, which exists only when the The principal accounting policies applied goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
strategic financial and operating decisions in the preparation of these consolidated Excess costs of acquisition over fair value relating to the activity require the financial statements are set out below.
of the Groups share of identifiable net unanimous consent of the venturers.
These policies have been consistently assets acquired are recorded as goodwill.
The Groups joint ventures are accounted applied to all the years presented, unless The results of subsidiary undertakings that for using the equity method.
otherwise stated, and are also applicable have been sold during the year are included to the parent Company.
Segment reporting up to date of disposal.
The profit or loss is Basis of preparation calculated by reference to the net asset Operating segments are reported in value at the date of disposal, adjusted for a manner consistent with the internal These financial statements have been purchased goodwill previously included on reporting provided to the chief operating prepared in accordance with International the balance sheet and foreign exchange decision maker.
The chief operating Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and reserve balances on retranslation.
decision maker, who is responsible for IFRS interpretations as adopted by the allocating resources and assessing European Union and with those parts of Inter-company transactions, balances and performance of the operating segments, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to unrealised gains arising between Group has been identified as the Group Executive companies reporting under IFRS.
companies are eliminated in preparing Board.
The financial statements have been Accounting policies of subsidiaries have A business segment is a group of assets prepared under the historical cost been changed where necessary to ensure and operations engaged in providing convention, as modified to include the consistency with the policies adopted by products or services that are subject to revaluation of available-for-sale financial the Group.
risks and returns that are different from assets to equity and financial liabilities those of other business segments.
including derivative instruments at fair Transactions with minority interests A geographical segment is engaged value through the income statement.
The Group applies a policy of treating in providing products or services within The preparation of financial statements in transactions with minority interests as a particular economic environment that is conformity with IFRS requires the use of transactions with parties external to the subject to risks and returns that are different certain critical accounting estimates and Group.
Disposals to minority interests result from those of segments operating in other for management to exercise judgement in gains and losses for the Group that economic environments.
in the process of applying the Groups are recorded in the income statement.
As the Group is strongly affected by both accounting policies.
The areas involving a Purchases from minority interests may differences in the types of services it higher degree of judgement or complexity, result in goodwill, being any difference provides and the geographical areas in or areas where assumptions and estimates between consideration paid and the which it operates, the matrix approach are significant to the consolidated financial relevant share acquired of the carrying of disclosing both the business and statements are disclosed in Note 4. value of net assets of the subsidiary.
geographical segments formats is used.
Consolidation Associates Revenues and expenses are allocated to The consolidated accounts include the Associates are all entities over which segments on the basis that they are directly accounts of the Company and its the Group has significant influence but attributable or the relevant portion can be subsidiary undertakings, together with the not control, generally accompanying a allocated on a reasonable basis.
Groups share of results of its associates shareholding of between 20% and 50% of and joint ventures.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition see Note 17 a.
Our results Savills plc 55 Report and Accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued When a foreign operation is sold, exchange Separately recognised goodwill is tested differences that were recorded in equity are annually for impairment and carried at cost Exceptional items recognised in the income statement as part less accumulated impairment losses.
Exceptional items are disclosed and of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair Impairment losses on goodwill are not described separately in the financial value adjustments arising on the acquisition reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal statements where it is necessary to do so of a foreign entity are treated as assets and of an entity include the carrying amount of to provide further understanding of the liabilities of the foreign entity and translated goodwill relating to the entity sold.
financial performance of the Group.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating They are material items of income or Property, plant and equipment units for the purpose of impairment testing.
expense that have been shown separately The allocation is made to those cashin the notes to the accounts due to the Property, plant and equipment is stated generating units or groups of cashsignificance of their nature or amount.
at historical cost less accumulated generating units that are expected to depreciation and impairment.
Historical Foreign currency translation benefit from the business combination cost includes expenditure directly in which the goodwill arose.
The Group Functional and presentation currency attributable to acquisition.
Subsequent allocates goodwill to each business costs are included in the assets carrying Items included in the financial statements of segment in the geographical region in amount or recognised as a separate asset, each of the Groups entities are measured which it operates Note 15. as appropriate, only when it is probable that using the currency of the primary economic the future economic benefits associated Intangible assets other than goodwill environment in which the entity operates with the item will flow to the Group and the the functional currency.
The consolidated Intangible assets acquired as part of cost of the item can be measured reliably.
financial statements are presented in business combinations and incremental Sterling, which is also the Companys contract costs are valued at fair value on Provision for depreciation is made at rates functional and presentation currency.
acquisition and amortised over the useful calculated on a straight-line basis to writelife.
Fair value on acquisition is determined Transactions and balances off the assets over their estimated useful by third-party valuations where the lives as follows: Foreign currency transactions are acquisition is significant.
translated into the functional currency using Freehold property 50 years Acquired computer software licences the exchange rates prevailing at the dates Leasehold property over are capitalised on the basis of the costs of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains less than 50 years unexpired incurred to acquire and bring to use the and losses resulting from the settlement of term of lease specific software.
Costs associated with such transactions and from the translation Furniture and office developing or maintaining computer at year-end exchange rates of monetary equipment 3 6 years software programmes are recognised as assets and liabilities denominated in foreign an expense as incurred.
currencies are recognised in the income Motor vehicles 3 5 years statement.
Measurement subsequent to initial Computer equipment 3 years recognition is at fair value less accumulated Translation differences on non-monetary Useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if amortisation and impairment.
financial assets and liabilities are reported appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
as part of the fair value gain or loss and Fair value is determined by impairment are recognised in the income statement.
An assets carrying amount is written down testing where an impairment loss is Non-monetary items carried at historical immediately to its recoverable amount if the recognised to the extent that the carrying cost are reported using the exchange rate assets carrying amount is greater than its value exceeds the higher of the assets fair at the date of the transaction.
value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Amortisation charges are spread on a The differences between retained profits Goodwill straight-line basis over the period of the of foreign subsidiaries and associated Goodwill represents the excess of the cost assets estimated useful lives as follows: undertakings translated at average and of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate closing rates of exchange are taken to Computer software 3 years over the Groups share of the fair value of reserves, as are differences arising on the identifiable net assets acquired.
Property management retranslation of foreign net assets to Sterling contracts 2 10 years at the end of the year using closing rates In respect of associates, goodwill is of exchange.
Any differences that have Incremental contract costs 10 years included in the carrying value of the arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented investment.
Goodwill arising on acquisition Business and customer as a separate component of equity.
is capitalised and subject to annual relationships 6 10 years As permitted under IFRS1, any differences impairment reviews.
Goodwill is stated at Brands 5 years prior to that date are not included in this cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Savills plc 56 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued A provision for impairment of trade Share capital receivables is established when there is Impairment of non-financial assets Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
objective evidence that the Group will not Incremental costs directly attributable to the Assets that have indefinite useful lives are be able to collect all amounts due issue of new shares or options are shown not subject to amortisation and are tested according to the original terms of the in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from annually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the proceeds.
When share capital is subject to amortisation are reviewed for the debtor, probability that the debtor will repurchased, the amount of consideration impairment whenever an indicator of enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, paid, including directly attributable costs, impairment exists.
An impairment loss is and default or delinquency in payments are is recognised as a charge to equity.
recognised to the extent that the carrying considered indicators that the trade Repurchased shares which are not value exceeds the higher of the assets fair receivable is impaired.
The amount of the cancelled, or shares purchased for the value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
provision is the difference between the Employee Share Ownership Trusts, are For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets carrying amount and the present classified as treasury shares and presented assets are grouped at the lowest levels for value of estimated future cash flows, as a deduction from total equity.
which there are separately identifiable cash discounted at the original effective flows cash-generating units.
Where it is interest rate.
Taxation not possible to estimate the recoverable Cash and cash equivalents Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for amount of an individual asset, the Group the period, together with deferred taxation.
estimates the recoverable amount of the Cash and cash equivalents include cash The current income tax charge is calculated cash-generating unit to which the asset in hand and deposits held on call with on the basis of the tax laws enacted at the belongs.
banks, together with other short-term highly balance sheet date in the countries where liquid investments with original maturities Value-in-use is determined using the the Group operate and generate taxable of three months or less and working discounted cash flow method, with an income.
Where applicable tax regulations capital overdrafts, which are subject to an appropriate discount rate to reflect market are subject to interpretation, provisions are insignificant risk of changes in value.
rates and specific risks associated with established where appropriate on the basis the asset.
If the recoverable amount is Bank borrowings of amounts expected to be paid.
estimated to be less than its carrying Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts Deferred income tax is provided in full amount, an impairment loss is recognised are initially measured at fair value, net using the liability method, on temporary immediately in the income statement.
of transaction costs incurred, and differences between the carrying amount of Financial instruments subsequently measured at amortised cost assets and liabilities for financial reporting using the effective interest rate method.
purposes and the amount used for the tax Financial assets and liabilities are base.
Deferred income tax is provided recognised on the Groups balance sheet Trade payables on temporary differences arising on at fair value when the Group becomes Trade payables are initially measured at investments in subsidiaries and associates, party to the contractual provisions of the fair value and subsequently measured at except where the timing of the reversal of instrument.
Subsequent measurement amortised cost, using the effective interest the temporary difference is controlled by depends on the classification and is rate method.
the Group and it is probable that it will not discussed below: reverse in the foreseeable future.
Derivative financial instruments and Investments hedging A deferred income tax asset is recognised Available-for-sale investments are stated at only to the extent that it is probable that Derivatives are initially recognised at fair fair value, with changes in fair value being future taxable profits will be available value on the date a derivative contract recognised directly in equity.
When such against which the asset can be utilised.
is entered into and are subsequently investments are disposed or become Deferred income tax assets and liabilities remeasured at fair value.
The method impaired, the accumulated gains and are not discounted.
Deferred income tax is of recognising the resulting gain or loss losses, previously recognised in equity, determined using the tax rates that have depends on whether the derivative is are recognised in the income statement.
been enacted or substantially enacted by designated as a hedging instrument and if the balance sheet date and are expected to Investments in subsidiaries held by the so, the nature of the item being hedged.
apply when the related deferred tax asset is Company are held at cost, less any Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
In these cases, changes in the Income tax and deferred tax is recognised Trade receivables fair value of all derivative instruments are in the income statement except to the recognised immediately in the income extent that it relates to items recognised Trade receivables are recognised initially statement.
directly in equity, in which case it is at fair value and subsequently measured recognised in equity.
at amortised cost less provision for Gains and losses relating to the effective impairment.
Receivables are discounted portion of hedges of net investments in where the time value of money is material.
foreign operations are recognised in equity.
Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed or sold.
Our results Savills plc 57 Report and Accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments Revenue Pension obligations The Group operates equity-settled shareRevenue comprises the fair value of the based compensation plans.
The fair consideration received or receivable for the The Group has both defined benefit and value of the employee services received provision of services in the ordinary course defined contribution plans.
A defined in exchange for the grant of the options is of the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown contribution plan is a pension plan under recognised as an expense.
net of value-added tax and amounts due to which the Group pays fixed contributions third parties and after elimination of revenue into a separate entity.
The Group has no Equity-settled share-based payments within the Group.
legal or constructive obligations to pay granted after 7 November 2002 that further contributions if the fund does not had not vested as of 1 January 2005 are Residential transactional fees hold sufficient assets to pay all employees measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Generally, where contracts are the benefits relating to employee service in The fair value determined at the grant date unconditional, revenue is recognised on the current and prior periods.
A defined of the equity-settled share-based payments exchange of contracts however, on benefit plan is a pension plan that defines is expensed on a straight-line basis over more complex contracts, revenue will an amount of pension benefit that an the vesting period, based on the Groups be recognised on the date of completion.
employee will receive on retirement, usually estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
On multi-unit developments, revenue is dependent on one or more factors, such as The fair value of equity-settled share-based recognised on a staged basis, age, years of service and compensation.
payments is measured by the use of commencing when the underlying The liability recognised in the balance sheet Actuarial Binomial option pricing model.
in respect of defined benefit pension plans At each balance sheet date, the Group Commercial transactional fees is the present value of the defined benefit revises its estimates of the number of obligation at the balance sheet date less options that are expected to become Generally, revenue is recognised on the the fair value of plan assets.
It recognises the impact of the date of completion or when unconditional benefit obligation is calculated annually by revision of original estimates, if any, in the contracts have been exchanged.
independent actuaries using the projected income statement, and a corresponding Property consultancy unit credit method.
The present value of the adjustment to equity over the remaining defined benefit obligation is determined vesting period.
The proceeds received net Revenue in respect of property consultancy by discounting the estimated future cash of any directly attributable transaction costs represents commissions and fees outflows.
are credited to share capital nominal value recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or and share premium when the options are percentage of completion.
The defined benefit scheme charge exercised.
consists of current service costs, interest Property and facilities management costs, expected return on plan assets, Employee Benefit Trust Revenue represents fees earned for past service costs and the impact of any The Company has established The Savills managing properties and providing facilities settlements or curtailments and is charged plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, and is generally recognised in the period as an expense as they fall due.
the purposes of which are to grant awards the services are provided using a straightAll actuarial gains and losses are to employees, to acquire shares in the line basis over the term of the contract.
recognised immediately in the statement Company pursuant to the Savills Deferred of comprehensive income as they arise.
Fund management Share Bonus Plan and the Savills Deferred The Group also operates a defined Share Plan and to hold shares in the Revenue represents commissions and contribution group personal pension plan Company for subsequent transfer to fees receivable, net of marketing costs in for new entrants and a number of defined employees on the vesting of the awards accordance with the relevant fee contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect of defined and liabilities of the EBT are included in Annual management fees are recognised, contribution pension schemes are charged the Group statement of financial position.
gross of costs, in the period to which the to the income statement when they Investments in the Groups own shares are service has been provided, in accordance are payable.
The Group has no further shown as a deduction from equity.
with the contracted fee agreements.
payment obligations once the contributions Provisions Transaction fees are recognised on the have been paid.
Prepaid contributions are date of completion of a purchase or sale recognised as an asset to the extent that Provisions are recognised when the Group transaction.
Distribution fees are recognised a cash refund or a reduction in the future has a present legal or constructive on the completion of a signed subscription payments is available.
obligation as a result of a past event and it agreement and performance fees are is probable that the Group will be required The net defined benefit cost is allocated recognised when approved by the fund.
to settle that obligation and the amount amongst participating Group subsidiaries has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are Financial services on the basis of pensionable salaries.
measured at the Directors best estimate Insurance commission revenue is of the expenditure required to settle the recognised when the insurance policy sold obligation at the balance sheet date and is in effect and the amount of commission are discounted to present value where the earned is determinable.
commission is recognised when the policy sold is in effect.
Mortgage commission is recognised on completion.
Savills plc 58 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Standards and amendments effective New amended standards not relevant in 2009 to the Group Revenue continued The Group adopted the following new and IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing costs Work in progress amended standards as of 1 January 2009: this amendment is not relevant to the Work in progress generally relates to Group as it has no qualifying assets and IFRS 8, Operating segments.
IFRS 8 consultancy revenue and is stated at the does not capitalise any borrowing costs.
lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost The new standard requires a Other standards, amendments and includes an appropriate proportion of management approach, under which interpretations effective in 2009 and not overheads.
segment information is presented on discussed above are not relevant to Interest income the same basis as that used for internal the Group.
This has resulted in Interest income is recognised on a timeStandards, amendments and using the profit measure of underlying proportion basis using the effective interest interpretations to standards that are not profit before tax instead of reported profit method.
yet effective and have not been early before tax as presented in management adopted by the Group Dividend income reporting.
The following standards and amendments Dividend income is recognised when the IFRS 7 Financial instruments to published standards are mandatory for right to receive payment is established.
accounting periods beginning on or after The amendment requires enhanced Other income 1 January 2010, and have not been early disclosures about fair value adopted: Other income includes interest and measurement and liquidity risk.
dividend income on available-for-sale In particular, the amendment requires IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash investments plus fair value gains and losses disclosure of fair value measurements assets to owners effective on or after on assets at fair value through profit or loss.
by level of a fair value measurement 1 July 2009.
provides guidance on accounting for Accounting for leases arrangements whereby an entity IAS 1 revised.
Presentation of financial Assets financed by leasing agreements distributes non-cash assets to statements.
The revised standard which give rights approximating to shareholders either as a distribution of prohibits the presentation of items of ownership finance leases are capitalised reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also income and expenses that is, nonin property, plant and equipment.
been amended to require that assets owner changes in equity in the Finance lease assets are initially recognised are classified as held for distribution only statement of changes in equity, requiring at an amount equal to the lower of their fair when they are available for distribution non-owner changes in equity to be value and the present value of the minimum in their present condition and the presented separately from owner lease payments at inception of the lease, distribution is highly probable.
The Group changes in equity in a statement of then depreciated over the lower of the lease will apply IFRIC 17 from 1 January 2010. comprehensive income.
As a result the life or the estimated useful lives on the It is not expected to have a material Group presents in the consolidated same basis as owned assets.
The capital impact on the Groups financial statement of changes in equity all owner elements of future obligations under finance statements.
changes in equity, whereas all nonleases are included as liabilities in the owner changes in equity are presented IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and balance sheet.
Leasing payments comprise in the consolidated statement of separate financial statements, effective capital and finance elements and the comprehensive income.
The revised standard finance element is charged to the information has been re-presented so requires the effects of all transactions income statement.
that it also is in conformity with the with non-controlling interests to be The annual payments under all other lease revised standard.
recorded in equity if there is no change agreements operating leases are charged in control and these transactions will no - IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based to the income statement on a straight-line longer result in goodwill or gains and payment clarifies that vesting conditions basis over the lease term.
The standard also specifies are service conditions and performance and receivable as an incentive to enter into the accounting when control is lost.
Other features of a the operating lease are also spread on a Any remaining interest in the entity is share-based payment are not vesting straight-line basis over the lease term.
remeasured to fair value, and a gain conditions.
These features would need to or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
A lease is classified as onerous where be included in the grant date fair value for The Group will apply IAS 27 revised the unavoidable costs of meeting the transactions with employees and others prospectively to transactions with nonobligations under the contract exceed the providing similar services: they would not controlling interests from 1 January 2010. economic benefits expected to be received impact the number of awards expected under it.
to vest or valuation there of subsequent IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations to grant date.
All cancellations, whether effective from 1 July 2009.
Dividends by the entity or by other parties, should The revised standard continues to apply Final dividends are recognised as a liability receive the same accounting treatment.
the acquisition method to business in the Groups financial statements in the The Group has changed the accounting combinations, with some significant period in which they are approved by the for Sharesave Schemes with regards changes.
For example, all payments to Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends to cancellations and withdrawals.
purchase a business are to be recorded are recognised when paid.
The amendment does not have a at fair value at acquisition date, with material impact on the Groups financial contingent payments classified as debt statements.
and subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
Our results Savills plc 59 Report and Accounts 2009 2.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 2 amendments, Group cashFor the year ended 31 December 2009, settled and share-based payment if the average currency conversion rates Standards, amendments and transactions.
In addition to incorporating for the year had changed with all other interpretations to standards that are not IFRIC 8, Scope of IFRS 2, and IFRIC variables held constant, the Group post tax yet effective and have not been early 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share profit for the year would have increased or adopted by the Group continued transactions, the amendments expand decreased as shown below: There is a choice on an acquisition-byon the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address Movement of currency against Sterling acquisition basis to measure the nonthe classification of group arrangements m 20% 10% 10% 20% controlling interest in the acquiree at fair that were not covered by that For the year ended 31 December 2009 vale or at the non-controlling interests interpretation.
The new guidance is not proportionate share of the acquirees Estimated impact on post tax profit expected to have a material impact on net assets.
All acquisition-related costs the Groups financial statements.
The Group will Other standards, amendments and Hong Kong apply IFRS 3 revised prospectively to interpretations not yet effective and not dollar 3.7 1.6 1.3 2.5 all business combinations from discussed above are not relevant to 1 January 2010.
Estimated impact on components of equity 3.
Financial risk management The Group will apply IAS 38 Euro 5.9 2.6 2.2 3.9 amendment from the date IFRS 3 Financial risk factors Hong Kong revised is adopted.
The amendment The Groups activities expose it to a variety dollar 19.6 8.7 7.1 13.1 clarifies guidance in measuring the fair of financial risks.
The Group has in place a value of an intangible asset acquired in a US dollar 5.6 2.5 2.0 3.7 risk management programme that seeks business combination and permits the For the year ended 31 December 2008 to limit the adverse effects on the financial grouping of intangible assets as a single performance of the Group.
Occasionally, Estimated impact on post tax loss asset if each asset has similar useful the Group uses financial instruments to Euro 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.4 economic lives.
The amendment will not manage foreign currency and interest result in a material impact on the Groups Hong Kong rate risk.
dollar 2.1 0.9 0.8 1.4 The treasury function is responsible for IFRS 5 amendment, Measurement US dollar 1.7 0.7 0.6 1.1 implementing risk management policies of non-current assets or disposal applied by the Group and has a policy and Estimated impact on components of equity groups classified as held-for-sale.
procedures manual that sets out specific Euro 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 The amendment provides clarification guidelines on financial risks and the use of that IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures Hong Kong financial instruments to manage these.
required in respect of non-current assets dollar 23.3 10.4 8.5 15.6 or disposal groups classified as held Foreign exchange risk US dollar 1.7 0.7 0.6 1.1 for sale or discontinued operations.
The Group operates internationally and is The Group will apply IFRS 5 Price risk exposed to foreign exchange risks primarily amendment from 1 January 2010.
It is with respect to the Euro, US dollar and The Group is not materially exposed to not expected to have a material impact Hong Kong dollar.
Foreign exchange risk equity securities price risk because listed on the Groups financial statements.
arises from future commercial transactions, investments held on the balance sheet are IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of recognised assets and liabilities and not significant.
The Group is not exposed to financial statements.
The amendment net investments in foreign operations.
provides clarification that the potential The Group finances some overseas Interest rate risk settlement of a liability by the issue of investments through the use of foreign equity is not relevant to its classification currency borrowings.
The Group does not The Group has both interest-bearing as current or non current.
By amending actively seek to hedge risks arising from assets and liabilities.
The Group finances its the definition of current liability, the foreign currency translations due to their operations through a mixture of retained amendment permits a liability to be non-cash nature and the high costs profits and bank borrowings, at both fixed classified as non-current provided that associated with such hedging: however and floating interest rates.
Borrowings the entity has an unconditional right to when there is a material committed foreign issued at variable rates expose the Group defer settlement by transfer of cash or currency exposure the foreign exchange cash flow to interest rate risk, which is other assets for at least 12 months after risk will be hedged.
partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
the accounting period notwithstanding Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the the fact that the entity could be required Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group by the counterparty to settle in shares at policy is to maintain 70% of its borrowings any time.
The Group will apply IAS 1 in fixed rate instruments.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Savills plc 60 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued Between Between 3.
Financial risk management The table below shows Group cash Less than 1 and 2 and continued balances split by counterparty ratings at the m 1 year 2 years 5 years balance sheet date: Interest rate risk continued As at 31 December 2008 2009 2008 Borrowings 5.6 5.7 9.7 For the year ended 31 December 2009, Balance Balance Counterparty rating provided by S&P m m if the average interest rate for the year Loan notes 7.6 1.1 had changed with all other variables held AAA 5.1 5.8 Derivative constant, the Group post tax profit for the AA 11.8 1.5 financial year would have increased or decreased instruments 1.2 AA 23.1 19.4 as shown below: Trade and other Movement of interest rates A 23.5 10.8 payables 145.2 7.4 9.4 A 5.4 27.6 m 0.50% 1.00% 1.50% 2.00% 158.4 14.2 20.3 A 5.6 6.4 For the year ended 31 December 2009 Capital risk management BBB or below 7.1 3.8 Estimated impact on post tax profit 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total 81.6 75.3 The Groups objectives when managing capital are: For the year ended 31 December 2008 Liquidity risk Estimated impact to safeguard the Groups ability to The Group maintains appropriate on post tax loss 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.6 provide returns for shareholders and committed facilities to ensure the Group benefits for other stakeholders: and Credit risk has sufficient funds available for operations to maintain an optimal capital structure to and expansion.
The Group prepares an Credit risk arises from cash and cash reduce the cost of capital.
annual funding plan approved by the Board equivalents, derivative financial instruments which sets out the Groups expected Savills plc is not subject to any externally and deposits with banks and financial financing requirements for the next imposed capital requirements, with institutions, as well as credit exposures to 12 months.
the exception of our FSA regulated clients, including outstanding receivables entities, which complied with all capital and committed transactions.
The Group Management monitors rolling forecasts of requirements during the year ended has policies that require appropriate credit the Groups liquidity reserve comprising 31 December 2009. checks on potential customers before undrawn borrowing facilities Note 23 and business commences.
A risk control cash and cash equivalents Note 20 on In order to maintain an optimal capital framework is used to assess the credit the basis of expected cash flow.
This is structure, the Group may adjust the quality of clients, taking into account carried out at local level in the operating amount of dividends paid to shareholders, financial position, past experience and companies of the Group in accordance return capital to shareholders, issue new other factors.
with Group practice as well as on a Group shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Individual risk limits for banks and financial The Groups policy is to borrow centrally institutions are set based on external ratings The table below analyses the Groups if required to meet anticipated funding and in accordance with limits set by the financial liabilities and net-settled derivative requirements.
The utilisation of credit limits is financial liabilities into relevant maturity with cash generated from operations, are regularly monitored.
groupings based on the remaining period then on-lent or contributed as equity to from the balance sheet date to the certain subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors As at the balance sheet date, no significant contractual maturity date.
The amounts monitor a number of debt measures credit risk existed in relation to banking disclosed in the table are the contractual including gross cash by location: gross counterparties.
No credit limits were undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due debt by location: cash subject to exceeded during the reporting period, within 12 months equal their carrying restrictions: total debt servicing cost to and management does not expect any balances, as the impact of discounting is operating profit: gross borrowings as a losses from non-performance by these not significant.
percentage of EBITDA earnings before counterparties.
There were no other interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation : Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 significant receivables or individual m year and 2 years and 5 years and forecast headroom against available trade receivable balances as at As at 31 December 2009 facilities.
These internal measures indicate 31 December 2009. the levels of debt that the Group has and Borrowings 5.6 4.9 3.8 are closely monitored to ensure compliance Loan notes 0.7 0.3 with banking covenants and that the Group Derivative has sufficient unused facilities.
financial instruments 0.7 Trade and other payables 141.6 10.8 1.1 147.9 16.0 5.6 Our results Savills plc 61 Report and Accounts 2009 3.
Changes in accounting Estimated impairment of assets continued estimates may be necessary if there are The Group tests annually whether goodwill changes in circumstances on which the Fair value estimation has suffered any impairment.
All other estimate was based, or as a result of assets are tested for impairment where The following table presents the Groups new information or more experience.
there are indicators of impairment.
assets and liabilities that are measured at The estimates and assumptions that have fair value at 31 December 2009: a significant risk of causing a material The recoverable amounts of cashm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total adjustment to the carrying amounts of generating units have been determined assets and liabilities within the next financial based on value-in-use calculations.
Assets year are discussed below.
The use of this method requires the Available-for-sale estimate of future cash flows expected to Pension benefits investments arise from the continuing operation of the Listed 0.2 0.2 The present value of the defined benefit cash-generating unit and the choice of a pension obligations depends on a suitable discount rate in order to calculate Unlisted 13.8 13.8 number of factors that are determined on the present value.
Actual outcomes could Derivative an actuarial basis using a number of vary significantly from these estimates.
financial assumptions including discount rate.
The estimates used in these financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Any changes in these assumptions will statements are contained in Note 15.
Total assets 0.2 13.9 14.1 impact the carrying amount of pension Valuation of intangible assets and obligations.
The Group determines the Liabilities useful life appropriate discount rate at the end of Derivative each year.
In determining the appropriate The Group has made assumptions in financial discount rate, the Group considers the relation to the potential future cash flows to instruments 0.7 0.7 interest rates of high-quality corporate be determined from separable intangible Total liabilities 0.7 0.7 bonds that are denominated in the assets acquired as part of business currency in which the benefits will be combinations.
This assessment involves The fair value of listed available-for-sale paid and that have terms to maturity assumptions relating to potential future investments is based on quoted market approximating the terms of the related revenues, appropriate discount rates prices at the balance sheet date.
Other key assumptions for and the useful life of such assets.
The quoted market price is the current pension obligations are based in part on These assumptions impact the income bid price.
These instruments are included current market conditions.
Additional statement over the useful life of the in level 1. information is disclosed in Note 10. intangible asset.
The fair value of unlisted available-for-sale Income taxes Provisions investments is determined using valuation The Group is subject to income taxes in The Group and its subsidiaries are party to techniques using observable market data numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is various legal claims.
Provisions made within where available and rely as little as possible required in determining the provision for these financial statements are contained on entity estimates.
The fair value of income taxes.
There are transactions and in Note 25 a.
Additional claims could be investment funds is based on underlying calculations for which the ultimate tax made which might not be covered by asset values determined by the Fund determination is uncertain.
Where the final existing provisions or by insurance as Managers audited annual financial tax outcome of these matters is different detailed in Note 30. statements.
Fair value of other unlisted from the amounts that were initially investments is based on price earnings Critical judgements in applying the recorded, such differences will impact the models.
These instruments are included entitys accounting policies income tax and deferred tax provisions in in level 2. the period in which such determination The application of the Groups accounting If one or more of the significant inputs is is made.
policies may require management to make not based on observable market data, judgements, apart from those involving Fair value of options granted to the instrument is included in level 3. estimates, that can affect the amounts employees recognised in the consolidated financial 4.
Critical accounting estimates and The Group uses the Binomial Model in statements.
Such judgements include the management judgements determining the fair value of options granted following areas: Critical accounting estimates and to employees under the Groups various assumptions Award of options and deferred shares schemes as detailed in the Remuneration to employees Estimates and judgements are continually Report.
Information on such assumptions evaluated and are based on historical is contained in Note 27.
The alteration of The Group applies judgement in deciding experience, current market conditions these assumptions may impact charges the proportion of the available bonus pool and other factors including expectations to the income statement over the vesting to be awarded to employees under its longof future events that are believed to be period of the award.
The Groups current policy is to deduct Actual results may differ from these from the bonus pool an amount equal to the market value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged to the income statement.
The charge to the income statement is currently lower than the market value of shares to be awarded.
Savills plc 62 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment analysis Operating segments reflect internal management reporting to the Group's chief operating decision maker, defined as the Group Executive Board GEB.
The operating segments are determined based on differences in the nature of their services and geographical location as the Group is strongly affected by both factors.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from property related services.
Refer to the Group overview on pages 02 and 03 and the Segmental reviews on pages 10 to 15 for further information on revenue sources.
Operations are based in four main geographical areas.
The UK is the home of the parent Company with segment operations throughout the region.
Asia Pacific segment operations are based in Hong Kong, Macau, China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, Vietnam and Australia.
Europe segment operations are based in Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Italy, Ireland and Poland.
America segment operations are based in New York.
The sales location of the client is not materially different from the location where fees are received and where the segment assets are located.
Within the UK, commercial and residential activities are managed separately.
Other geographical areas, although largely commercial based, also provide residential services, in particular Hong Kong, China and Singapore.
The unallocated segment includes holding company costs and other expenses not directly attributable to the operating activities of the Groups business segments.
The GEB assesses the performance of operating segments based on a measure of underlying profit before tax which adjusts reported pre-tax profit by exceptional items, profit on disposals, share-based payments adjustment and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
Segmental assets and liabilities are not measured or reported to the GEB.
The segment information provided to the GEB for revenue and profits for the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Unallocated Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 35.7 65.3 50.1 17.4 1.7 170.2 residential 71.3 22.8 14.5 9.5 118.1 107.0 88.1 64.6 17.4 11.2 288.3 Rest of Europe 28.3 8.8 23.0 60.1 Asia Pacific 59.9 22.5 127.6 210.0 America 2.3 2.3 Total revenue 197.5 119.4 215.2 17.4 11.2 560.7 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 1.2 6.9 5.1 2.9 0.9 4.6 10.6 residential 11.8 2.3 2.0 2.0 14.1 13.0 9.2 7.1 2.9 2.9 4.6 24.7 Rest of Europe 9.6 0.3 2.7 12.6 Asia Pacific 6.8 2.0 8.2 17.0 America 3.9 3.9 Underlying profit loss before tax 6.3 10.9 12.6 2.9 2.9 4.6 25.2 A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to profit before tax is provided in Note 7.
Inter segmental revenue is not material.
Our results Savills plc 63 Report and Accounts 2009 5.
Segment analysis continued Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Unallocated Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Revenue United Kingdom commercial 51.9 76.9 45.5 19.5 1.6 195.4 residential 64.2 24.0 14.7 15.8 118.7 116.1100.960.2 19.5 17.4 314.1 Rest of Europe 34.2 11.5 21.9 67.6 Asia Pacific 56.219.4109.3 184.9 America 1.9 1.9 Total revenue 208.4 131.8 191.4 19.5 17.4 568.5 Underlying profit loss before tax United Kingdom commercial 7.8 10.3 4.6 3.6 0.1 3.1 23.1 residential 2.8 3.2 2.4 0.9 7.5 10.613.57.03.6 1.0 3.1 30.6 Rest of Europe 7.8 0.8 1.2 8.2 Asia Pacific 4.32.08.4 14.7 America 3.9 3.9 Underlying profit loss before tax 3.2 16.3 14.2 3.6 1.0 3.1 33.2 Segmental assets comprise the following: Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Financial Advice Consultancy Management Management Services Unallocated Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Segmental assets United Kingdom commercial 31.5 30.5 14.0 12.1 2.2 4.0 94.3 residential 51.3 28.4 18.9 4.5 9.0 112.1 82.8 58.9 32.9 12.1 6.7 13.0 206.4 Rest of Europe 41.2 3.2 12.8 2.2 59.4 Asia Pacific 46.2 14.8 80.2 11.3 152.5 America 18.7 1.6 20.3 188.9 76.9 125.9 12.1 6.7 28.1 438.6 Investment in associates and joint ventures 6.3 6.3 12.6 Total assets 195.2 76.9 132.2 12.1 6.7 28.1 451.2 Segmental assets include goodwill and intangible assets, plant, property and equipment, investments in joint ventures and associates and available-for-sale investments.
Derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets are included in unallocated assets.
Goodwill and intangible assets are itemised by segment in Note 15.
Total non current assets located in the United Kingdom is 73.6m 2008 76.5m, and the total of non-current assets located in other geographical areas is 120.2m 2008 129.5m.
Savills plc 64 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Operating profit Operating profit, including exceptional items, is stated after charging crediting : Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Other operating expenses include: m m Impairment of available-for-sale investments and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 8.4 Net foreign exchange gains 1.0 0.6 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.3 Operating lease rentals Hire of plant and machinery 1.5 2.2 Property 21.0 20.5 Other income dividend and investment income 0.2 0.2 Profit loss on disposals is made up as follows: Profit loss on disposals Available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.5 Joint ventures 16.9 Associates 0.2 17.4 Exceptional items are shown in Note 8.
Income Statement of the Company As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the income statement of the Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The Company receives dividends from subsidiaries and charges subsidiaries for the provision of Group related services.
The profit after income tax of the Company for the year was 3.1m 2008 61.0m.
6 c. Fees payable to the Companys auditor,  LLP, and its associates: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Audit services Fees payable to Company auditor for the audit of parent Company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.8 0.8 Tax services 0.6 0.4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions proposed to be entered into by the Company 0.1 1.6 1.5 Savills plc 66 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Underlying profit before tax Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Reported profit loss before tax 13.5 7.7 Adjustments: Exceptional items Note 8 33.9 Amortisation of intangibles excluding software Note 15 2.7 4.2 Impairment of goodwill Note 15 4.3 Share-based payment adjustment 4.7 3.3 Profit on disposal of associate, joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 0.5 Underlying profit before tax 25.2 33.2 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in 2008 of 37.0m is included in Exceptional items in Note 8.
The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The adjustment for share-based payment relates to the impact of the accounting standard for share-based compensation.
The annual bonus is paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares and the proportions can vary from one year to another.
Under IFRS the deferred share element is amortised to the income statement over the vesting period whilst the cash element is expensed in the year.
The adjustment above addresses this by adding to or deducting from profit the difference between the IFRS 2 charge and the effective value of the annual share award in order to closely match the underlying staff costs in the year with the revenue recognised in the same period.
Exceptional items Exceptional items comprise the following: Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Redundancy costs 0.6 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets Note 15 37.0 Available-for-sale investment impairment Note 17 b 6.9 Diminution in value of financial asset at fair value through profit and loss 1.5 Plant, property and equipment impairment Note 16 1.0 Onerous leases Note 25 a 3.3 Other 0.5 Profit on disposal of joint venture 16.9 Total exceptional items 33.9 Recognised in other operating expenses on the face of the income statement.
Employee benefits expense Staff and Directors Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Basic salaries and wages 227.2 231.7 5.1 5.8 Incentive bonuses and commissions 81.1 79.9 1.7 2.4 308.3 311.6 6.8 8.2 Social security costs 26.5 25.7 0.9 0.9 Other pension costs 12.6 10.7 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 9.8 10.0 0.3 0.4 357.2 358.0 8.3 9.8 Our results Savills plc 67 Report and Accounts 2009 9 b.
Staff numbers The average number of employees including directors during the year was: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 UK 3,079 3,374 America 34 33 Rest of Europe 731 837 Asia Pacific 16,104 15,590 19,948 19,834 The average number of UK employees including directors during the year included 60 employed under fixed term and temporary contracts 2008 35.
The average number of employees of the Company was 102 2008 122 who are all located in the UK.
9 c. Key management compensation Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Key management Remuneration excluding bonuses 1.1 1.1 Bonuses 2.1 1.5 National Insurance 0.5 0.3 Fees to Non-Executive Directors 0.3 0.3 Total short-term employee benefits 4.0 3.2 Share-based payments 0.4 0.8 4.4 4.0 The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprised Savills plc Board Directors during the year and the Chairman and Chief Executive of Savills Commercial Limited.
The key management of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 comprised only Savills plc Board Directors during the year.
Details of Directors remuneration is contained in the Remuneration report on pages 36 to 45.
During the year five Executive Directors made gains totalling 0.5m on the exercise of options under the DSBP, ESOP, Sharesave and 2001 Option Schemes 2008 0.9m.
The pension annuity for the highest paid Director was 49,504 with no lump sum accrued 2008 46,813 with no lump sum accrued.
Retirement benefits under the defined benefit scheme are accruing for three Directors and benefits are accruing under a defined contribution scheme in Hong Kong for one Executive Director.
Savills plc 68 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Pension scheme Defined contribution plans The Group operates the Savills UK Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, a number of defined contribution individual pension plans and a Mandatory Provident Fund Scheme in Hong Kong, to which it contributes.
The total pension charges in respect of these plans were 8.5m 2008 8.4m.
Defined benefit plan The Group operates a pension scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, and invested in managed funds units.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations.
The most recent actuarial valuation completed, using the projected unit method, was as at 5 April 2007.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation are those relating to the rate of return on investments pre-retirement, the rates of increase in salaries and the post-retirement investment return.
The valuation showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 100.7m and that the actuarial value of those assets represented 98% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
The scheme has been closed to new joiners for pension benefits since 1 April 2000.
Group Principal assumptions at 31 December 2009 2008 Expected return on plan assets Equities 8.30% 7.65% Bonds 5.30% 5.35% Property 7.30% 6.65% Diversified growth funds 8.00% n a Other 0.30% 1.85% Expected rate of salary increases 5.00% 4.80% Rate of increase to pensions in payment accrued before 6 April 1997 3.00% 3.00% accrued after 5 April 1997 3.60% 3.30% accrued after 5 April 2005 2.40% 2.40% Rate of increase to pensions in deferment accrued before 6 April 2001 5.00% 5.00% accrued after 5 April 2001 3.70% 3.30% Discount rate 5.60% 6.30% Inflation assumption 3.70% 3.30% Our results Savills plc 69 Report and Accounts 2009 10.
Pension scheme continued Using post-retirement mortality assumptions, the assured life expectations on retirement at age 60 are as follows: Group 2009 2008 Retiring today Male 87.1 87.1 Female 89.7 89.7 Retiring in 20 years Male 89.3 89.2 Female 91.7 91.7 Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate: Change in assumption Decrease by 0.5% p. a.
Impact on liabilities Increase by 12% 2008 increase by 12% The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Fair value of plan assets 103.5 85.9 5.7 4.9 Present value of funded obligations 141.2 110.5 7.8 6.3 Deficit 37.7 24.6 2.1 1.4 Related deferred tax asset 10.7 7.0 0.6 0.4 Net liability 27.0 17.6 1.5 1.0 The amounts recognised in the income statement: Group 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 3.2 3.6 Interest cost 7.0 6.7 Expected return on plan assets 6.1 8.0 Total included in staff costs 4.1 2.3 All net actuarial gains or losses for each year are recognised in full in the year in which they are incurred in the statement of comprehensive income.
Change in defined benefit obligation: Group 2009 2008 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation at start of year 110.5 113.4 Current service cost 3.2 3.6 Interest cost 7.0 6.7 Plan participants contributions 1.1 1.2 Actuarial loss gain 20.7 13.6 Benefits paid 1.3 0.8 Present value of defined benefit obligation at end of year 141.2 110.5 Savills plc 70 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Pension scheme continued Change in plan assets: Group 2009 2008 m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 85.9 103.4 Expected return on plan assets 6.1 8.0 Actuarial gain loss 7.9 29.9 Employer contributions 3.8 4.0 Plan participants contributions 1.1 1.2 Benefits paid 1.3 0.8 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 103.5 85.9 The actual return on plan assets was 14.0m 2008 21.9m.
The overall expected return on assets is determined as the weighted average of the expected returns on each separate asset class shown below.
The expected return on plan assets is determined by the expected rate of return over the remaining life of the related liabilities held by the scheme.
The expected rate of return on equities is based on market expectations of dividend yields and price earnings ratios.
Expected returns on bonds are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Group 2009 2008 m m Actuarial losses brought forward 24.8 8.5 Net actuarial loss for the year 12.8 16.3 Accumulated net actuarial losses 37.6 24.8 The major categories of assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 Equities 53% 73% Bonds 23% 18% Property 3% 4% Diversified Growth Funds 20% Cash 1% 5% Total 100% 100% No plan assets are the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied or used by the Group.
Amounts for the current and previous four years are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Plan assets 103.5 85.9 103.4 96.6 85.4 Defined benefit obligation 141.2 110.5 113.4 112.1 102.8 Deficit 37.7 24.6 10.0 15.5 17.4 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 2% 1% 5% 3% 14% Experience gain loss on plan assets 8% 35% 4% 3% 8% Following the year end it was agreed that the Pension Plan of Savills the Plan, which provided final salary pension benefits to some employees, would close with regard to future benefit accrual with effect from 31 March 2010.
From 1 April 2010, pension benefits for former members of the Plan will instead be provided through the Groups defined contribution Personal Pension Plan.
The Group expects to contribute 0.7m to its pension plan in the period to 31 March 2010 2008 full year 3.9m 0.1m Company, 2008 full year 0.2m.
Our results Savills plc 71 Report and Accounts 2009 11.
Finance income and costs Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Bank interest receivable 1.9 5.2 Fair value gain forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps 0.4 1.8 Finance income 2.3 7.0 Bank interest payable 2.3 3.9 Fair value loss forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps 0.6 Finance costs 2.3 4.5 Net finance income 2.5 12.
Income tax expense Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Analysis of tax expense for the year m m Current tax United Kingdom: Corporation tax at 28.0% 2008 28.5% 7.6 9.6 Adjustment in respect of previous years 2.9 0.9 4.7 8.7 3.5 3.3 Foreign tax Adjustment in respect of previous years 0.6 Total current tax 8.2 11.4 Deferred tax Representing: United Kingdom 4.4 3.6 Foreign tax 0.8 3.6 Adjustment in respect of previous years 1.3 0.4 Total deferred tax Note 18 3.9 6.8 Income tax expense 4.3 4.6 The tax charged to equity is as follows: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current tax credit on employee benefits 1.4 1.2 0.1 Current tax credit on foreign exchange reserves 0.8 Deferred tax on pension actuarial losses 3.6 4.6 0.2 0.3 Deferred tax charge on employee benefits 1.1 1.1 0.1 Deferred tax on revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on foreign exchange reserves 0.3 0.6 Tax on items taken directly to reserves 5.2 4.3 0.2 0.3 Savills plc 72 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Income tax expense continued The tax on the Groups profit loss before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to Group profits.
The tax for the year is higher 2008 higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 28.0%.
The total tax charge on profit loss can be reconciled to the accounting profit loss as follows: Group Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Profit loss before tax 13.5 7.7 Profit loss on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% 2008 28.5% 3.8 2.2 Effects of: Adjustments to tax in respect of previous years 1.6 1.1 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 1.1 2.7 Impact of rising falling share price compared to the fair value of share awards options at date of grant 0.7 1.8 Income not subject to tax 0.2 4.0 Non-deductible tax losses 2.3 0.4 Expenses and other charges not deductible for tax purposes 1.8 13.2 Income tax expense on profit loss 4.3 4.6 The effective tax rate of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 is 31.9% 2008 59.7%.
Dividends Group and Company Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 m m Amounts recognised as distribution to equity holders in the year: Ordinary final dividend for 2008 of 3.0p per share 2007 12.0p 3.7 14.7 Interim dividend of 3.0p per share 2008 6.0p 3.7 7.3 7.4 22.0 A second interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 of 6.0p per share is to be paid on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the record at the close of business of 12 March 2010.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
No final dividend has been proposed for the year ended 31 December 2009 2008 3.0p.
Under the terms of The Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT, the Trustee has waived all but 0.01p of any dividend on each share held by the Trust.
Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, waived all dividends on the shares it held.
Our results Savills plc 73 Report and Accounts 2009 14 a.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share are based on the profit for the year and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the shares held by the EBT, 9,314,386 shares 2008 9,742,738 shares.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being the share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and where performance conditions have been met.
The earnings and the shares used in the calculations are as follows: Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 8.9 122.7 7.3 11.3 121.7 9.3 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 5.8 0.4 3.7 Diluted earnings per share 8.9 128.5 6.9 11.3 125.4 9.3 14 b.
Underlying basic and diluted earnings per share Excludes exceptional items, profit on disposals, share-based payments adjustment and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 Earnings Shares EPS Earnings Shares EPS m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share 8.9 122.7 7.3 11.3 121.7 9.3 Exceptional items after tax 29.5 24.3 Amortisation of intangibles excluding software after tax 2.2 1.8 3.0 2.5 Impairment of goodwill after tax 4.3 3.5 Share-based payment adjustment after tax 3.4 2.8 2.4 2.0 Profit on disposal of associate, joint venture and available-for-sale investments after tax 1.1 0.9 1.6 1.4 Underlying basic earnings per share 17.7 122.7 14.5 22.0 121.7 18.1 Effect of additional shares issuable under option 5.8 0.7 3.7 0.6 Underlying diluted earnings per share 17.7 128.5 13.8 22.0 125.4 17.5 The Directors regard the above adjustments necessary to give a fair picture of the underlying results of the Group for the year.
The gross amounts of the above adjustments are profits on disposals nil 2008 0.5m, share-based payment adjustment 4.7m 2008 3.3m and add back of amortisation of intangibles excluding software and impairment of goodwill and available-for-sale investments of 7.0m 2008 4.2m.
Savills plc 74 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets Group Company Investment and Customer Property business Management Computer Acquired goodwill and intangible Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 173.4 22.6 6.8 8.7 9.4 220.9 2.0 Acquisitions Note 17 e 4.4 1.9 6.3 Other additions 0.2 1.2 1.4 0.7 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Exchange movement 8.4 1.8 0.6 0.1 0.3 11.2 At 31 December 2009 169.4 21.0 6.2 10.5 10.1 217.2 2.7 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2009 39.9 7.0 6.8 4.5 7.5 65.7 1.3 Amortisation charge for the year 2.2 0.5 0.9 3.6 0.3 Impairment 4.3 4.3 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 3.1 1.2 0.6 0.3 5.2 At 31 December 2009 41.1 8.0 6.2 5.0 8.0 68.3 1.6 Net book value At 31 December 2009 128.3 13.0 5.5 2.1 148.9 1.1 All intangible amortisation charges in the year are disclosed on the face of the income statement.
The Companys intangible assets consist of computer software.
Group Company Customer Investment and Property business Management Computer Acquired goodwill and intangible Goodwill relationships Brands contracts software Total Total assets m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 139.6 15.5 5.1 6.5 7.1 173.8 1.5 Acquisitions 11.6 2.4 14.0 Other additions 1.3 1.3 0.5 Initial recognition of deferred tax on intangibles Note 18 1.3 1.8 1.5 4.6 Exchange movement 20.9 2.9 1.7 0.7 1.0 27.2 At 31 December 2008 173.4 22.6 6.8 8.7 9.4 220.9 2.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2008 0.9 3.6 1.3 2.0 5.5 13.3 1.1 Amortisation charge for the year 2.2 1.3 0.7 0.8 5.0 0.2 Impairment 32.5 0.5 2.8 1.2 37.0 Exchange movement 6.5 0.7 1.4 0.6 1.2 10.4 At 31 December 2008 39.9 7.0 6.8 4.5 7.5 65.7 1.3 Net book value At 31 December 2008 133.5 15.6 4.2 1.9 155.2 0.7 Our results Savills plc 75 Report and Accounts 2009 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued During the year, goodwill and intangibles were tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36.
Goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
In most cases, the CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation and these have been separately assessed and tested.
A segment-level summary of the allocation is presented below: Property & Transactional Facilities Fund Advice Consultancy Management Management Total m m m m m United Kingdom 25.1 9.2 5.4 2.3 42.0 Rest of Europe 34.7 1.5 13.2 49.4 Asia Pacific 10.6 3.3 24.3 38.2 America 17.2 17.2 Total goodwill and intangibles excluding software 87.6 14.0 42.9 2.3 146.8 Method of impairment testing All recoverable amounts were determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a terminal value.
Key assumptions Market recovery The models used assume that the property markets in which the Group operates begin to recover during 2011.
Discount rate The discount rate applied to cash flows of each CGU is based on the Groups Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
WACC is the average costs of sources of financing debt and equity, each of which is weighted by its respective use.
Key inputs to the WACC calculation are the risk free rate, the equity market risk premium the return that Savills shares provide over the risk free rate, beta reflecting the risk of the Group relative to the market as a whole and the Groups borrowing rates.
Group WACC was adjusted for risk relative to the country in which the assets were located.
The risk adjusted pre-tax discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2009 2008 Pre-tax discount rate range Pre-tax discount rate range United Kingdom 11.6% 11.6% Rest of Europe 11.6 12.1% 11.6% 12.5% Asia Pacific 12.0 19.0% 11.6% 13.4% America 12.5% 12.5% Long-term growth rate To forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using an average long-term growth rate determined at 1.5%.
This reflects managements expectations based on historical growth and current market conditions and does not exceed the long-term growth rate in any country in which the Group operates.
Impairment charge Following impairment testing, a 4.3m charge has been recognised through the income statement 2008 37.0m relating to goodwill and intangibles on historical acquisitions where carrying values are no longer supported by the discounted cash flow analysis.
Due to the continued poor US market conditions, an impairment has been recognised of 4.3m in Savills America 2008 7.7m.
While it is assumed that the US market will slowly begin to recover, transaction activity may not pick up as soon as anticipated: therefore a more cautious approach to revenue and profit margins has been taken.
Key assumptions include a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions There are no CGUs where management believe a reasonable possible change in assumptions may give rise to an impairment charge with the exception of Savills Ireland.
Under the impairment testing model, the recoverable amount of Savills Ireland exceeded the carrying value by 0.2m.
The key assumption in the model relates to revenue where management applied a conservative outlook forecasting a steady return to the revenues generated in 2008.
Accordingly, a small reduction in the forecast revenues would result in the carrying value exceeding the recoverable amount and give rise to an impairment charge.
Savills plc 76 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Goodwill and intangible assets continued The level of impairment is a reflection of best estimates in arriving at value in use, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
Future impairments may be impacted by the following factors: Market conditions the timing and growth expectations for market recovery are key assumptions in the determination of the cash flow projections.
Management expect the market to begin to recover during 2011.
If a marked downturn continues beyond this period, further impairments may occur.
Cost base the cost base assumptions reflects managements cost savings measurements undertaken during 2008 and 2009 and assumes limited growth in the fixed cost base going forward.
Commissions and bonuses are correlated to the Groups revenue and profits and the percentage payout.
These are assumed to be consistent with existing rates.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2009 0.4 20.7 48.2 69.3 Additions 0.8 2.4 3.2 Disposals 1.6 1.0 2.6 Exchange movement 0.2 2.2 2.4 At 31 December 2009 0.4 19.7 47.4 67.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 10.9 34.7 45.6 Charge for the year 1.9 5.1 7.0 Disposals 1.2 0.7 1.9 Exchange movement 0.1 1.6 1.5 At 31 December 2009 11.7 37.5 49.2 Net book value At 31 December 2009 0.4 8.0 9.9 18.3 The Directors consider that the fair value of plant, property and equipment approximates to carrying value.
Equipment Equipment Short and motor and motor Freehold leasehold vehicles vehicles property property Owned Leased Total Group m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2008 0.4 16.5 38.8 0.2 55.9 Additions 3.2 5.3 8.5 Acquisitions 1.0 0.1 1.1 Disposals 0.2 1.8 0.1 2.1 Exchange movement 0.2 5.8 0.1 5.9 At 31 December 2008 0.4 20.7 48.2 69.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 7.9 26.2 0.1 34.2 Charge for the year 2.0 5.2 7.2 Impairment 1.0 1.0 Disposals 0.1 1.4 0.1 1.6 Exchange movement 0.1 4.7 4.8 At 31 December 2008 10.9 34.7 45.6 Net book value At 31 December 2008 0.4 9.8 13.5 23.7 The impairment charge in 2008 of 1.0m arose on the write-off of office fit out costs where the properties were no longer in use and the leases were classed as onerous.
Our results Savills plc 77 Report and Accounts 2009 16.
Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold Short Equipment property leasehold and motor owned property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2009 0.1 1.1 7.6 8.8 Additions 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2009 0.1 0.8 7.9 8.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2009 1.0 6.9 7.9 Charge for the year 0.1 0.3 0.4 Disposals 0.3 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2009 0.8 7.1 7.9 Net book value At 31 December 2009 0.1 0.8 0.9 Freehold Short Equipment property leasehold and motor owned property vehicles Total Company m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2008 0.1 1.1 7.1 8.3 Additions 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2008 0.1 1.1 7.6 8.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2008 0.2 6.5 6.7 Charge for the year 0.2 0.4 0.6 Impairment 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2008 1.0 6.9 7.9 Net book value At 31 December 2008 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 Impairment in 2008 relates to fit out of an office where the properties lease was been classed as onerous.
Savills plc 78 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint ventures Associated undertakings Investment Loans Total Investment Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation At 1 January 2009 1.1 2.5 3.6 2.3 0.2 2.5 Additions 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 Transfer from available-for-sale investments Note 17 b 0.6 0.6 Movement on loans 0.1 0.1 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 1.1 2.2 3.3 3.4 0.2 3.6 Share of profit At 1 January 2009 1.4 1.4 3.4 3.4 Groups share of retained profit 1.0 1.0 1.6 1.6 Disposal 0.2 0.2 Dividends received 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.7 Exchange movement 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2009 1.7 1.7 4.0 4.0 Total At 31 December 2009 2.8 2.2 5.0 7.4 0.2 7.6 Total At 31 December 2008 2.5 2.5 5.0 5.7 0.2 5.9 In relation to the Groups interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2009 2008 m m Current assets 5.4 2.5 Non-current assets 3.9 2.3 Current liabilities 5.9 2.3 Non-current liabilities 0.6 Net assets 2.8 2.5 Revenue 10.3 6.4 Expenses 8.8 6.8 Share of income tax 0.5 0.2 Share of post-tax profit loss from joint ventures 1.0 0.6 In relation to the Groups associated undertakings, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below: 2009 2008 m m Current assets 9.0 9.6 Non-current assets 5.9 4.5 Current liabilities 6.7 7.1 Non-current liabilities 0.8 1.3 Net assets 7.4 5.7 Revenue 14.3 22.0 Expenses 12.0 20.5 Share of income tax 0.7 0.4 Share of post-tax profit from associates 1.6 1.1 Our results Savills plc 79 Report and Accounts 2009 17 a.
Group Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings continued The joint ventures and associates have no significant liabilities to which the Group is exposed to, nor has the Group any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures and associates.
The market value of the Groups holding in Adventis plc, an associate company, was 2.8m at 31 December 2009 2008 2.0m.
On 12 June 2008, the Group disposed of its 50% stake in Infinergy Limited to its joint venture partner.
10.0m was due and received in December 2009 for the last deferred payment in relation to this disposal.
17 b. Available-for-sale investments Group Group 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 16.2 21.6 Additions 0.3 3.1 Transfer to investment in associate Note 17 a 0.6 Revaluation deficit transferred to equity 0.8 0.5 Disposals 0.2 3.6 Impairment 6.9 Exchange movement 0.9 2.5 At 31 December 14.0 16.2 Available-for-sale investments comprise the following: Listed securities Asia Pacific equity securities 0.2 0.9 Unlisted securities UK equity securities 1.5 1.4 UK limited partnership 0.1 UK investment funds 2.5 3.2 European investment funds 9.7 10.7 14.0 16.2 In 2008, an impairment charge of 6.9m was recognised in relation to Cordea Savills investment funds, due to the deterioration of underlying property asset values.
The most significant impairments related to the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 2.0m and Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 1.6m.
Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies: Group Group 2009 2008 m m Sterling 4.1 4.7 Euro 9.7 10.5 Other 0.2 1.0 14.0 16.2 Savills plc 80 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 b. Available-for-sale investments continued At 31 December 2009, the Group held the following available-for-sale investments: Investment Holding Principal activity Pinnacle Regeneration Group plc registered in England and Wales 12.1% Social housing Cordea Savills Dawn Syndication entity registered in England and Wales 3.5% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Student Hall Fund entity registered in Jersey 2.0% Student accommodation property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 1 entity registered in Luxembourg 8.0% Investment property fund Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2 entity registered in Luxembourg 1.3% Investment property fund Serviced Land No.
2 entity registered in England and Wales 1.9% UK land investment fund Cordea Savills German Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 1.9% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills Nordic Retail Fund entity registered in Luxembourg 11.3% Retail investment property fund Cordea Savills UK Property Ventures No.
1 registered in England and Wales 4.1% UK land investment fund The Group does not exert significant influence over these businesses, and therefore does not equity account for these investments.
These shareholdings are treated as trade investments and held at fair value.
The fair value of unlisted securities is based on underlying asset values and price earnings models.
The fair value of investment funds is determined by the Fund Managers annual audited financial statements.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group held conditional commitments for investment funds as detailed in Note 29.
The Company made an available-for-sale investment during the year of 0.2m in unlisted UK equity securities.
17 c. Company Investments in subsidiaries Shares Loans to in Group Group undertakings undertakings Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 17.4 112.0 129.4 Additions 5.0 7.6 12.6 Repayments 8.7 8.7 Exchange movement 6.1 6.1 At 31 December 2008 22.4 117.0 139.4 Additions 2.1 2.1 Repayments 5.4 5.4 Exchange movement 2.2 2.2 At 31 December 2009 22.4 111.5 133.9 Our results Savills plc 81 Report and Accounts 2009 17 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are wholly-owned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group accounts.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 60% Provision of fund management Savills Commercial Limited 100% Commercial surveyors Savills L&P Limited 100% General practice surveyors Prime Purchase Limited 100% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 60% Asset manager regulated by FSA Provision of general insurance, mortgage broking and Savills Private Finance Limited 100% personal financial planning services regulated by FSA Savills LLC registered in the US 75% Property consultants Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Residential Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 90.45% Property consultants Savills Nederland Holding BV registered in the Netherlands 87% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 51% Property consultants Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 100% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Valuation and research Savills Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Guardian Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100% Property management and agency Savills Property Services Shanghai Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Property Services Beijing Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Korea Asset Management Limited registered in Korea 100% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited registered in Korea 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 69.10% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Aust Pty Limited registered in Australia 100% Property agency, consultants and management Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48% Property agency Adventis Group plc 30.04% Provision of marketing and media services Shares interests held indirectly by the Company.
Savills plc 82 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries During the year, the Group made a number of small acquisitions: Provisional fair value to Group Total Subsidiaries acquired m Current assets: Trade and other receivables 0.3 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 0.1 Net assets 0.2 Minority share of net assets 0.8 Other intangibles Note 15 1.9 Fair value of net assets acquired 2.9 Goodwill Note 15 4.4 Purchase consideration and costs 7.3 Analysis of purchase consideration and costs: Purchase consideration 7.3 Acquisition costs 7.3 Consideration and costs satisfied by: Cash 7.2 Deferred consideration owing at balance sheet date 0.1 7.3 For all acquisitions, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets acquired, except for intangible assets.
Acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
Goodwill is attributable to anticipated future operating synergies from the combination with existing businesses and perceived future economic benefits that will be generated from the staff client relationships acquired.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
During the year, the Group exercised the call option agreed on acquisition of Savills Korea Asset Management and acquired the remaining 45% shareholding in this company.
Cash consideration of 3.9m was paid and goodwill on acquisition of 2.6m has been provisionally determined.
During the year, the Group increased its shareholding in a number of existing subsidiaries and also acquired Mayflower Management Company Limited, a charities property fund manager.
Cash consideration for these transactions amounted to 3.3m with deferred consideration of 0.1m.
Goodwill on acquisition of 1.8m has been provisionally determined, and is attributable to key staff and their industry reputation.
Other intangible assets of 1.9m have been identified and relate to a fund management contract.
Included in Group operating profit relating to acquisitions is revenue of 0.6m 2008 3.9m, staff costs of 0.6m 2008 2.8m, depreciation of nil 2008 nil, amortisation of nil 2008 0.2m and other operating charges of 0.3m 2008 1.5m.
If the date for all acquisitions made during the year had been at the beginning of the year, amounts relating to these acquisitions would have been revenue of 1.0m 2008 6.0m, staff costs of 0.9m 2008 4.0m, depreciation of nil 2008 0.1m, amortisation of nil 2008 0.2m and other operating charges of 0.5m 2008 2.2m.
Our results Savills plc 83 Report and Accounts 2009 18.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there are legally enforceable rights to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when realised through current tax.
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the same jurisdiction, are as follows: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months 25.0 19.4 1.2 1.1 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months 2.4 3.0 0.5 0.5 27.4 22.4 1.7 1.6 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 3.0 4.7 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.6 0.8 3.6 5.5 Deferred tax asset net 23.8 16.9 1.7 1.6 The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m At 1 January asset 16.9 10.7 1.6 1.4 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 3.9 6.8 0.1 Tax charged to equity Pension asset 3.6 4.6 0.2 0.3 Employee benefits 1.1 1.1 0.1 Revaluations of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Movement on foreign exchange reserves 0.3 0.6 Exchange movement 0.9 Initial recognition of deferred tax on previously acquired intangible assets Note15 4.6 As at 31 December asset 23.8 16.9 1.7 1.6 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 14.8m 2008 10.0m available for offset against future profits.
Deferred tax of 4.1m 2008 2.2m has not been recognised on such losses due to the unpredictability of future income streams.
Included within unrecognised losses are losses of 0.2m that expire within three years, 1.0m that expire within three to five years, 0.6m that expire in within six to seven years and the remaining 13.0m being available for offset indefinitely.
Savills plc 84 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Deferred income tax continued Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions Tax losses benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 0.7 3.3 1.0 3.6 4.3 12.9 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 0.2 2.1 2.8 1.2 0.9 4.8 Tax credited charged to equity Note 12 4.6 1.1 3.5 Exchange movement 0.3 0.8 1.1 Acquired with subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2008 0.9 5.7 4.7 7.0 4.1 22.4 Amount charged credited to income statement Note 12 0.7 0.2 0.1 3.4 2.6 Tax credited charged to equity Note 12 3.6 1.1 2.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.2 0.1 As at 31 December 2009 0.9 5.1 4.3 10.7 6.4 27.4 Other Accelerated including capital provisions and foreign allowances exchange reserves Unremitted profits Revaluations Intangible assets Total Deferred tax liabilities Group m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 0.4 1.1 0.1 0.6 2.2 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 0.1 0.6 0.3 1.6 2.0 Tax charged credited to equity Note 12 0.6 0.2 0.4 Exchange movement 0.3 0.3 Initial recognition of intangible assets Note 15 4.6 4.6 As at 31 December 2008 0.3 1.1 0.4 0.4 3.3 5.5 Amount credited to income statement Note 12 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.5 1.3 Tax credited to equity Note 12 0.3 0.2 0.5 Exchange movement 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2009 0.7 0.2 2.7 3.6 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2009 23.8 At 31 December 2008 16.9 Accelerated Other capital including Retirement Employee allowances provisions benefits benefits Total Deferred tax assets Company m m m m m At 1 January 2008 0.4 0.6 0.2 0.2 1.4 Amount credited charged to income statement Note 12 0.1 0.1 Tax charged to equity Note 12 0.3 0.1 0.2 As at 31 December 2008 0.5 0.6 0.4 0.1 1.6 Amount charged credited to income statement Note 12 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax credited to equity Note 12 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2009 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.2 1.7 Net deferred tax asset At 31 December 2009 1.7 At 31 December 2008 1.6 Our results Savills plc 85 Report and Accounts 2009 19.
Trade and other receivables Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Trade receivables 116.5 122.7 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 9.4 10.0 Trade receivables net 107.1 112.7 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 10.5 7.8 Other receivables 11.7 26.5 0.4 Income tax 1.9 1.8 3.5 Prepayments and accrued income 24.7 25.3 0.8 0.9 145.4 164.5 13.1 12.6 The carrying value of trade and other receivables is approximate to fair value.
Included in other receivables for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 10.0m due and received in December 2009 for the last deferred payment in relation to the disposal of Infinergy Limited.
There is no other concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of clients internationally dispersed with no individual client owing a significant amount.
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings to the Company are generally charged interest at 1.5% above the base rate.
Inter-company trade receivables are generally cleared within the month.
As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 9.4m 2008 10.0m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to receivables from clients that have been affected by the uncertain economic conditions where funding and completion have been delayed and cash flow has become uncertain.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Up to 3 months 1.1 1.6 3 to 6 months 1.6 2.3 Over 6 months 6.7 6.1 9.4 10.0 As at 31 December 2009, trade receivables of 38.6m 2008 35.1m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to trade receivables which are past due at the reporting date but are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Up to 3 months 35.1 24.4 3 to 6 months 1.3 5.5 Over 6 months 2.2 5.2 38.6 35.1 Savills plc 86 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2009 2008 m m Sterling 67.5 95.1 Euro 22.9 22.4 Hong Kong dollar 21.1 21.4 Australian dollar 11.4 10.8 Other 22.5 14.8 145.4 164.5 Movement on the provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 10.0 8.1 Provisions for receivables impairment 2.8 3.1 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.9 3.0 Exchange movements 0.5 1.8 At 31 December 9.4 10.0 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating costs in the income statement.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 50.8 36.2 19.2 17.1 Short-term bank deposits 30.8 39.1 81.6 75.3 19.2 17.1 The effective interest rate on short-term bank deposits as at 31 December 2009 was 0.62% 2008 1.6% : these deposits have an average maturity of 5 days 2008 13 days.
Cash subject to restrictions in Asia Pacific amounts to 16.7m 2008 11.3m which is cash pledged to banks in relation to property management contracts and cash remittance restrictions in certain countries.
Our results Savills plc 87 Report and Accounts 2009 20.
Cash and cash equivalents continued Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statement: Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 81.6 75.3 19.2 17.1 Bank overdrafts Note 23 0.7 80.9 75.3 19.2 17.1 Cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies: Sterling 29.8 24.8 21.0 17.1 Euro 6.4 6.3 1.8 Hong Kong dollar 22.9 26.8 Singapore dollar 4.8 4.6 Thailand baht 0.2 0.2 Australian dollar 3.6 1.5 Chinese renminbi 9.1 7.4 Japanese yen 0.7 0.2 South Korean wan 1.9 2.1 Polish zloty 0.1 Swedish krona 0.4 0.3 US dollar 0.5 0.4 Vietnam dong 1.3 0.6 81.6 75.3 19.2 17.1 The Company Euro account is managed within a Group pooling banking arrangement.
As at 31 December 2009, no net overdraft existed within the Euro pool.
Trade and other payables current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Deferred consideration 4.2 1.4 Trade payables 32.4 30.1 3.2 2.4 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3.4 0.7 Other taxation and social security 22.6 22.0 4.3 0.5 Other payables 3.0 3.6 Accruals and deferred income 102.8 110.1 3.8 3.1 165.0 167.2 14.7 6.7 21 b.
Tax liabilities current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current income tax liabilities 2.5 2.4 Savills plc 88 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Trade and other payables non-current Group Company Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Deferred consideration 11.0 14.6 Other payables 0.1 0.3 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 13.7 15.0 11.1 14.9 13.7 15.0 23.
Borrowings Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Current Unsecured bank loans and overdrafts due within one year or on demand 5.6 5.6 Loan notes 0.7 7.6 6.3 13.2 Non-current Unsecured bank loans 8.7 15.3 Loan notes 0.3 1.1 9.0 16.4 In 2007, the Group borrowed 19.8m for the acquisition of Granite Partners LLC in the US now Savills LLC.
The borrowings are denominated in US dollars.
Interest is fixed at 5.315% via an interest rate swap until maturity date.
At 31 December 2009, at the year end exchange rate, 13.6m was outstanding 2008 20.9m.
USD8m is due within one year.
In 2006, 4.3m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of Blair Kirkman LLP.
As at 31 December 2009, 0.5m were still in issue and due within one year.
Also in 2006, 0.6m of the Variable Interest Rate Guaranteed Loan Notes 2006 were issued as part consideration for the acquisition of the business and assets of PCA Management Consultants Limited.
As at 31 December 2009, 0.5m were still in issue.
These are repayable over two years and interest is payable half-yearly.
Our results Savills plc 89 Report and Accounts 2009 23.
Borrowings continued Bank loans are denominated in a number of currencies and bear interest at LIBOR or foreign equivalents as appropriate to the country in which the borrowing is incurred.
The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the balance sheet date are: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Less than 1 year 1.4 8.2 Between 1 and 2 years 0.3 0.5 Between 2 and 5 years 13.6 20.9 15.3 29.6 Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: m m m m Between 1 and 2 years 5.3 6.7 Between 2 and 5 years 3.7 9.7 9.0 16.4 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Bank overdraft 3.96% 7.72% Bank loans 5.32% 5.32% Loan notes 3.51% 4.89% The carrying amounts of borrowings approximate to fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Sterling 1.0 2.7 US dollar 13.6 20.9 Euro 0.6 6.0 Thailand baht 0.1 15.3 29.6 The Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities: Floating rate expiring within one year or on demand 20.2 22.2 Floating rate expiring between 1 and 5 years 60.0 80.0 In November 2009 the 80m multi-currency revolving credit facility was reduced to 60m, by means of a voluntary partial cancellation by Savills as it was surplus to forecast requirements.
As at 31 December 2009 this facility was undrawn.
Savills plc 90 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Derivative financial instruments Group Company Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities At 31 December 2009 m m m m Interest rate swaps at fair value 0.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts at fair value 0.1 Total 0.1 0.7 Less non-current portion 0.7 Current portion 0.1 At 31 December 2008 2.6 1.2 1.5 Interest rate swaps The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts in relation to the US borrowing at 31 December 2009 were 13.6m 2008 20.9m.
At 31 December 2009, the fixed interest rate was 5.315%.
The floating rate is USD LIBOR.
Gains and losses on interest rate swaps are recognised in the income statement.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2009 were 14.2m 2008 10.3m.
The non-current portion represents contracts that mature in over one year.
Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement.
Hedge of net investments in foreign operations A portion of the Groups US borrowing amounting to USD22.0m 2008 USD30.0m is designated as a hedge on the net investment in the Groups US subsidiary.
The fair value of the total borrowing at 31 December 2009 was 13.6m 2008 20.9m.
The foreign exchange gain of 2.1m 2008 - 5.7m on translation of the borrowing to currency at the balance sheet date is recognised in foreign exchange reserves in equity.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets on the balance sheet.
Our results Savills plc 91 Report and Accounts 2009 25 a.
Provisions Professional Dilapidation Onerous Group indemnity Company claims provisions leases Total m m m m m At 1 January 2009 4.2 1.0 3.3 8.5 1.8 Released during the year 1.0 1.0 Provided during the year 5.7 0.2 5.9 Utilised during the year 1.7 2.1 3.8 0.3 31 December 2009 7.2 1.2 1.2 9.6 1.5 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group Company m m Current 5.2 0.3 Non-current 4.4 1.2 9.6 1.5 4.5m of professional indemnity claims and dilapidation provisions is expected to be paid within one year.
Onerous lease costs of nil 2008 3.3m have been provided for leases where the expected economic outflow exceeds the future benefits.
0.7m is expected to be paid within one year.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 10, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2009 8.7 Provided during the year 3.8 Utilised during the year 4.6 Exchange movements 0.1 31 December 2009 8.0 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in Asia Pacific and are expected to crystallise within five to seven years of the balance sheet date.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2009 or 31 December 2008.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2009 2008 m m Current 3.1 3.5 Non-current 4.9 5.2 8.0 8.7 Savills plc 92 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Share capital Group and Company 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Authorised and allotted Number of shares Number of shares m m Ordinary shares of 2.5p each: Authorised 202,000,000 202,000,000 5.1 5.1 Allotted, called up and fully paid 131,841,846 131,840,933 3.3 3.3 Movement in allotted, called up and fully paid share capital 2009 2008 Number of shares m Number of shares m At 1 January 131,840,933 3.3 131,840,933 3.3 Allotted to direct participants on exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme 913 At 31 December 131,841,846 3.3 131,840,933 3.3 At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 May 2009, the shareholders gave the Company authority, subject to stated conditions, to purchase for cancellation up to 13,184,093 of its own ordinary shares AGM held on 7 May 2008 13,184,093.
Such authority remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 1 July 2010 whichever is the earlier.
Share-based payment Details of the terms of the following schemes are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 36 to 45.
The following share options have been granted under the Savills Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 and were outstanding at 31 December 2009: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period Exercise price 000 000 30 March 2004 7 years from 30 March 2007 Unapproved 217.8p 46 46 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Approved 321.3p 37 37 14 March 2005 7 years from 14 March 2008 Unapproved 321.3p 91 91 13 March 2006 7 years from 13 March 2009 Unapproved 596.0p 100 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Approved 300.1p 10 16 April 2008 7 years from 16 April 2011 Unapproved 300.1p 160 187 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Approved 288.8p 21 17 April 2009 7 years from 17 April 2012 Unapproved 288.8p 530 885 471 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2009 is shown below: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average Number of average Number of shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 471 360.7p 310 394.5p Granted 551 288.8p 197 300.1p Forfeited 137 516.6p 36 321.3p Outstanding at 31 December 885 291.8p 471 360.7p Exercisable at 31 December 174 293.9p 174 293.9p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was nil 2008 nil and total consideration of nil 2008 nil was received.
Our results Savills plc 93 Report and Accounts 2009 27.
During the year 913 shares 2008 nil shares were allotted direct to participants on the exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme.
The following table shows the options remaining outstanding as at 31 December 2009, 244,237 shares 2008 750,486 shares having lapsed and 913 2008 nil shares having been exercised in accordance with the rules of the scheme for consideration of 2,903.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise price Exercise period 000 000 5 May 2006 510.5p 01.07.09 01.01.10 194 227 31 October 2007 318.0p 01.12.10 01.06.11 814 1,026 29 October 2009 267.0p 01.12.12 01.06.13 1,210 2,218 1,253 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2009 is shown below: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average Number of average Number of shares exercise shares exercise 000 price 000 price Outstanding at 1 January 1,253 352.9p 2,003 352.0p Granted 1,210 267.0p Forfeited expired 244 343.8p Exercised 1 318.0p Outstanding at 31 December 2,218 307.0p 1,253 352.9p Exercisable at 31 December 194 510.5p The weighted average share price on the date of exercise during the year was 334.8p 2008 nil.
27 c. During the year no shares 2008 nil were either allotted to Savills QUEST Trustees Limited, the trustee of the Qualifying Employee Share Trust, or transferred 2008 nil to participants on the exercise of options under the Savills Sharesave Scheme.
On 17 November 2009 2,154 shares held by the QUEST the Trust were sold at 326.92p per share further to Savills plc and the Trust agreeing to wind-up the Trust and distribute its remaining assets to charities nominated by Savills plc employees.
27 d. The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan the DSBP and were outstanding at 31 December 2009: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of shares shares Date of award Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 15 March 2004 5 years 15 March 2009 903 14 March 2005 5 years 14 March 2010 1,028 1,065 13 March 2006 3 years 13 March 2009 621 13 March 2006 5 years 13 March 2011 34 34 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 775 802 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 592 635 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 2,289 2,447 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 1,305 1,386 17 April 2009 3 years 17 April 2012 886 17 April 2009 5 years 17 April 2014 563 7,472 7,893 As at 31 December 2009, 439 2008 459 individuals held outstanding awards under the DSBP.
Awards made under the DSBP from 2006 onwards are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders throughout the deferred period.
Savills plc 94 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payment continued A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2009 is shown below: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number of share price Number of share price shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 7,893 5,392 Granted 1,498 3,976 Forfeited expired 303 321 Exercised 1,616 288.6p 1,154 311.7p Outstanding at 31 December 7,472 7,893 Exercisable at 31 December 8 5 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2008 nil.
Awards over 8,465 shares were exercisable under this scheme as at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 5,390.
27 e. The following awards of deferred shares, without exercise price, have been granted under the Savills Deferred Share Plan the DSP and remained outstanding at 31 December 2009: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Deferred period Vesting date 000 000 10 October 2006 3 years 10 October 2009 78 10 October 2006 5 years 10 October 2011 366 504 19 March 2007 3 years 19 March 2010 383 388 19 March 2007 5 years 19 March 2012 37 37 17 September 2007 3 years 17 September 2010 170 170 17 September 2007 5 years 17 September 2012 12 12 17 March 2008 3 years 17 March 2011 693 693 17 March 2008 5 years 17 March 2013 37 37 23 September 2008 3 years 23 September 2011 138 138 7 October 2008 3 years 7 October 2011 42 42 17 April 2009 3 years 10 April 2012 615 10 September 2009 3 years 10 September 2012 17 10 September 2009 5 years 10 September 2014 23 2,533 2,099 As at 31 December 2009, 102 individuals 2008 109 held outstanding awards under the DSP.
Awards made under the DSP are subject to rolled-up dividends whereby the number of shares awarded will be increased on the vesting date to reflect dividends paid to shareholders during the deferred period.
A reconciliation of award movements over the year to 31 December 2009 is shown below: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average Number share price Number of share price of shares at date shares at date 000 of exercise 000 of exercise Outstanding at 1 January 2,099 1,282 Granted 655 967 Forfeited expired 2 96 Exercised 219 351.7p 54 270p Outstanding at 31 December 2,533 2,099 Exercisable at 31 December 17 The weighted average exercise price for awards granted under this scheme is nil 2008 nil.
Our results Savills plc 95 Report and Accounts 2009 27.
Share-based payment continued Fair value of options Options and awards for the DSBP, Sharesave Scheme and ESOS were valued at fair value using the Actuarial Binominal model of Lane Clark & Peacock actuaries.
The key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Risk free rate 2.1% p. a.
5.0% p. a. depending on grant date and expected life Volatility 28% p. a.
51% p. a. depending on grant date Employee turnover 2.5% p. a. for DSBP and Sharesave and zero for ESOS Early exercise 50% of employees exercise early when options and awards are 20% in the money Performance criteria All vest after three years only relevant for ESOS The expected volatility is measured over the three or five years prior to the date of grant to match the vesting period of the award.
The risk free rate is the yield on a zero coupon UK Government bonds at each grant date, with term based on the expected life of the option or award.
After deferred tax, the charge was 7.0m 2008 9.2m.
Savills plc 96 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Retained earnings and other reserves Share-based Capital Foreign Profit and loss Total retained payments Treasury redemption exchange Revaluation Total other account earnings reserve shares reserve reserves reserves reserves Group m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2009 24.3 30.8 99.3 92.8 0.3 28.3 0.9 29.5 Profit for the year 8.9 8.9 Other comprehensive income 8.1 8.1 9.4 0.5 9.9 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 9.8 9.8 Exercise of options 7.7 6.3 1.4 Purchase of treasury shares 4.7 4.7 Disposals net of tax 0.1 0.1 Dividends 7.4 7.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 26.4 29.2 94.0 91.2 0.3 18.9 0.4 19.6 Balance at 1 January 2008 15.8 34.6 146.3 127.5 0.3 2.2 1.4 3.9 Loss for the year 11.3 11.3 Other comprehensive income 11.4 11.4 25.9 0.4 25.5 Employee share option scheme: Value of services provided 10.0 10.0 Exercise withdrawal of options 1.5 3.8 2.3 Disposals net of tax 0.2 0.1 0.1 Dividends 22.0 22.0 Balance at 31 December 2008 24.3 30.8 99.3 92.8 0.3 28.3 0.9 29.5 Included within retained earnings on the face of the Statement of Financial Position is tax on items taken directly to equity Note 12, share-based payments reserve and retained earnings as disclosed above.
Capital commitments Group Company 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 2.1 1.8 At 31 December 2009 the Group held a conditional commitment to co-invest 0.8m in the Cordea Savills UK Ventures Fund and 1.3m in the Cordea Savills Italian Opportunities Fund 2.
Contingent liabilities In common with comparable professional services businesses, the Group is involved in a number of disputes in the ordinary course of business.
Provision is made in the financial statements for all claims where costs are likely to be incurred and represents the cost of defending and concluding claims.
The Group carries professional indemnity insurance and no separate disclosure is made of the cost of claims covered by insurance as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
Our results Savills plc 97 Report and Accounts 2009 31.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Property leases Other leases Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Group m m m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 18.4 17.3 2.0 2.2 20.4 19.5 In one to five years 50.3 55.2 2.1 2.9 52.4 58.1 After five years 24.0 36.3 0.6 24.0 36.9 92.7 108.8 4.1 5.7 96.8 114.5 Property leases Other leases Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Company m m m m m m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.7 0.7 In one to five years 2.4 2.4 3.1 3.1 Significant operating leases relate to the various property leases for Savills offices in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific.
There are no significant non-cancellable subleases.
Cash generated from operations Group Company Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Profit loss for the year 9.2 12.3 3.1 61.0 Adjustments for: Income tax Note 12 4.3 4.6 2.0 0.9 Depreciation Note 16 7.0 7.2 0.4 0.6 Amortisation of intangibles Note 15 3.6 5.0 0.3 0.2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.3 Impairment of assets Note 15, 17 b and 24 4.3 37.0 Profit on disposal of associate, joint ventures and available-for-sale investments 17.4 Other exceptional items 13.8 0.6 Net finance income Note 11 2.5 2.0 3.6 Share of post-tax profit from associates and joint ventures Note 17 a 2.6 0.5 Dividend in specie from subsidiary 42.1 Exchange movement on operating activities 2.7 0.6 3.8 Increase decrease in provisions 1.2 0.9 0.3 0.2 Decrease in employee and retirement obligations 0.5 1.5 Charge for share-based compensation 9.8 10.0 0.3 0.3 Exercise of share options 6.3 3.8 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 39.2 45.2 2.7 12.5 Increase decrease in work in progress 0.1 0.3 Decrease increase in current trade and other receivables 1.0 71.6 2.6 1.6 Increase decrease in current trade and other payables 6.1 103.0 6.8 8.2 Cash generated from operations 46.2 14.1 1.5 2.7 Savills plc 98 Report and Accounts 2009 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Reconciliation of opening to closing cash net of debt Non-cash flow Exchange At 1 January movements Cash flows movement At 31 December For the year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 75.3 13.2 6.9 81.6 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 75.3 12.5 6.9 80.9 Bank loans 20.9 4.5 2.8 13.6 Loan notes 8.7 6.9 0.8 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 45.7 23.9 3.3 66.3 Non-cash flow Exchange movements At 1 January Cash flows movement At 31 December For the year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 110.7 50.9 15.5 75.3 Bank overdrafts 0.3 0.3 110.4 50.6 15.5 75.3 Bank loans 19.4 6.9 8.4 20.9 Loan notes 13.5 4.0 0.8 8.7 Cash and cash equivalents net of debt 77.5 39.7 7.9 45.7 34.
Related party transactions The Group is controlled by Savills plc, a company registered in England and Wales.
Marketing services were provided by Adventis plc, an associate company, to Savills L&P Limited at an arms-length value of 2.6m 2008 5.6m.
Loans to related parties Loans to associates and joint ventures are disclosed in Note 17 a.
All loans to associates and joint ventures are non-interest bearing.
Company transactions The Company provided corporate function services to its subsidiaries at an arms-length value of 9.5m 2008 11.2m.
Dividends received from subsidiaries were nil 2008 37.5m.
Amounts outstanding from subsidiaries as at 31 December 2009 are disclosed in Notes 19 and 21.
Events after the balance sheet date Savills Sweden AB On 11 January 2010, the Group acquired 47.4% shares in Savills Sweden AB.
This takes the Groups shareholding to 98.4%.
Cash consideration was paid of 0.9m and goodwill on acquisition of 1.0m has been provisionally determined.
Cordea Savills LLP Savills Investments Limited, which holds 60% of the voting rights in Cordea Savills LLP, the Group's fund management business, has entered into a conditional agreement with the other members who hold voting rights in Cordea Savills to acquire their B Member Interests, which represent 40% of the voting rights in Cordea Savills.
Total consideration of up to 15.4m of which 4.6m will be paid on transaction close with another 4.5m payable in equal instalments on the first and second anniversaries, and up to a further 6.3m on the second anniversary subject to Cordea Savills earnings performance over the period.
All consideration payments will be settled in cash out of existing resources, including debt facilities.
The transaction is conditional on shareholder approval, which will be sought at the General Meeting to be held on 24 March 2010.
