Savills plc 99 Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Key dates for 2010 Date Annual General Meeting 5 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 26 August Website Professional advisers and Auditors service providers Visit our investor relations website Pricewaterhouse www.
com for full up to date investor Solicitors Coopers LLP relations information, including the latest 1 Embankment Place CMS Cameron McKenna share price, recent annual and half year London WC2N 6RH Mitre House reports, results presentations and 160 Aldersgate Street Joint Stockbrokers financial news.
London UBS Investment Bank Shareholder enquiries EC1A 4DD 1 Finsbury Avenue For shareholder enquiries please contact Registrars London EC2M 2PP our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general Equiniti enquiries contact 0871 384 2018 between Numis Securities Ltd Aspect House 08.30 and 17.30 on each business day.
The London Stock Spencer Road For further administrative queries in Exchange Building Lancing respect of your shareholding please 10 Paternoster Square West Sussex access our Registrars website at London EC4M 7LT BN99 6DA www.
co. uk Principal Bankers Electronic communications Barclays Bank Plc If you would prefer to receive shareholder 1 Churchill Place communications electronically in future, London E14 5HP including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Sign up for paper-free communications.
Cautionary note regarding forwarddirectors and employees concerning, Consequently, our actual future financial looking statements amongst other things, our results of condition, performance and results could operations, financial condition, liquidity, differ materially from the plans, goals and Certain statements included in this Annual prospects, growth, strategies and the expectations set out in our forward-looking Report are forward-looking and are businesses we operate.
The Company undertakes no therefore subject to risks, assumptions and could cause actual results to differ materially obligation to publicly update any forwarduncertainties that could cause actual results from those estimated by the forwardlooking statement, whether as a result of to differ materially from those expressed or looking statements include, but are not new information, future events or otherwise.
implied because they relate to future limited to: events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements global economic business conditions relating to the Companys expectations.
monetary and interest rate policies Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology foreign currency exchange rates including the words: believes, estimates, equity and property prices anticipates, expects, intends, plans, the impact of competition, inflation goal, target, aim, may, will, would, and deflation could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable changes to regulations, taxes terminology and include all matters that are and legislation not historical facts.
They appear in a changes to consumer saving and number of places throughout this Annual spending habits: and Report and include statements regarding our success in managing the above our intentions, beliefs or current factors.
expectations and those of our officers, Savills plc 100 Report and Accounts 2009 TTCOC002238 Design and production: Radley Yeldar ry.
com Print: Granite 4 think bright is produced with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The range is fully recyclable and manufactured within a mill which is registered under the British quality standard of BS EN ISO 90012000 and the environmental standard of ISO 14001.
Savills plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Savills plc Registered in England 20 Grosvenor Hill No.
com Accounts 2009 Our business Savills is a global real estate services provider listed on the 01 Chairmans statement London Stock Exchange.
We have an international network 02 Group overview 04 Sustaining our momentum of more than 200 offices and associates throughout the 07 Group Chief Executives review 07 Review of operations Americas, the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa 08 Strategy and key performance indicators and the Middle East, offering a broad range of specialist 10 Segmental reviews 16 Group Chief Financial Officers report advisory, management and transactional services to clients 18 Corporate responsibilities all over the world.
24 Risk and uncertainties facing the business Our people combine entrepreneurial spirit and a deep Our governance understanding of specialist property sectors with the 26 Board of Directors 27 Group Executive Board highest standards of client care.
28 Directors report 30 Corporate governance report 36 Remuneration report 46 Directors responsibilities Reported results 47 Independent auditors report Revenue Our results 560.7m 2008: 568.5m 48 Consolidated income statement 49 Consolidated statement of Underlying profit before tax comprehensive income 25.2m 50 Consolidated and Company 2008: 33.2m statements of financial position 51 Consolidated statement of Underlying basic earnings per share changes in equity 14.5p 2008: 18.1p 52 Company statement of changes in equity Total dividend per share 53 Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows 9.0p 2008: 9.0p 54 Notes to the financial statements 99 Shareholder information Shareholders funds 1 97.7 m 2008: 211.0m Underlying profit is calculated by adjusting reported pre-tax profit by exceptional items, profit on disposals, share-based payment adjustment and impairment and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles excluding software.
