110 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 indePendent auditoRs RePoRt TO THe members Of sT. mODwen prOperTies plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended 30th November In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 2009 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes A to O.
The financial reporting framework that Give a true and fair view of the state of the parent has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and companys affairs as at 30th November 2009: United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of This report is made solely to the companys members, as the Companies Act 2006. a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Opinion on other matters prescribed by the that we might state to the companys members those matters Companies Act 2006 we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do for the financial year for which the financial statements are not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the prepared is consistent with the parent company financial company and the companys members as a body, for our audit statements.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, of the parent company financial statements and for being in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the accordance with applicable law and International Standards parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to been received from branches not visited by us: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical The parent company financial statements are not in Standards for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records or returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Scope of the audit of the financial statements law are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have not received all the information and explanations and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to we require for our audit.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Other Matter fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the We have reported separately on the group financial statements accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys of St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended circumstances and have been consistently applied and 30th November 2009 and on the information in the adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall been audited.
presentation of the financial statements.
Stephen Griggs FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 5th February 2010 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
