68 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 diRectoRs ResPonsiBilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that directors are required to prepare the group financial statements the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company detection of fraud and other irregularities.
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting the corporate and financial information included on the companys Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this In preparing the parent company financial statements, the annual report confirms that: directors are required to: So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and consistently: The director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any and prudent: relevant audit information and to establish that the companys State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been auditors are aware of that information.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance explained in the financial statements: and with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at continue in business.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: ResPonsiBility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Properly select and apply accounting policies: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of information: the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the taken as a whole: and specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to The business review, which is incorporated into the directors understand the impact of particular transactions, other events report, includes a fair review of the development and and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance of the business and the position of the company performance: and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as Make an assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and concern.
By order of the board Bill Oliver Tim Haywood Chief Executive Finance Director 5th February 2010 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
