co. uk glossaRy of teRms Annualised net rents are gross rents as at a reporting date interest cover is profit before interest and tax excluding non plus, where rent reviews are outstanding, any increases to cash items such as investment property revaluations plus estimated rental value as determined by the groups external the realisation of previous years revaluations, as a percentage valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
of net interest excluding non-cash items such as mark-to market of interest rate swaps.
bREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method an industry-wide system of standards iPd is Investment Property Databank Ltd. a company that to assess sustainable developments and measure the produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally with IAS 12, full provision has been made for the deferred tax for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined arising on the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
by the groups external valuers.
However, in the groups experience, the liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise in In accordance with usual practice, the groups external valuers practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective EPRA NAV.
purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Compulsory purchase order CPO is the compulsory acquisition Marshalling is the process of progressing projects through of land by a planning authority, undertaken in the public planning and development.
interest and with pre-defined timescales and compensation arrangements.
net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
CSR Corporate and social responsibility.
Pre-sold projects are those projects where we are constructing EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association a body buildings that have been specified by, and designed for, or that has put forward recommendations for best practice for adapted by, a specific client under a specific construction financial reporting by real estate companies.
On such projects, profit is recognised using the stage completion method.
EPRA net asset value EPRA nAV is the balance sheet net assets, excluding fair value adjustments for debt and related Property profits includes profits made on sales of investment derivatives, deferred taxation on revaluation and capital properties, properties held for sale and properties under allowances.
EPRA net assets per share is EPRA net assets divided by the Rent roll is the gross rent plus rent reviews that have been diluted number of shares at the period end.
agreed as at the reporting date.
Estimated rental value ERV is the groups external valuers Section 106 agreements are legally binding agreements opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of reached with local planning authorities under S106 of the valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
They address the new letting or rent review of the property.
impact of proposed developments on the local community and often involve a financial contribution by the developer.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will Voids is the estimated rental value of vacant properties produce based on the timing of the income received.
expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Gearing is the level of the groups bank borrowing excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Weighted average debt maturity Each tranche of group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the Hopper is the bank of property comprising all of the land under result is divided by total group debt in issue at the period end.
the groups control, whether wholly owned or through joint ventures or development agreements.
Weighted average interest rate is the group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total iFRS International financial reporting standards.
group debt in issue at the period end.
initial yield is the annualised net rent expressed as a percentage of the valuation.
