112 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 notice of annual geneRal meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixty-ninth Annual General of the average middle market price quotation on the Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC will be held at London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares on the 12 noon on Friday 26th March 2010 at the Marketing Suite, five previous dealing days or less than 10p in each Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, case exclusive of advance corporation tax if any and Birmingham, B31 2TS for the following purposes: expenses payable by the company : and oRdinaRy Business c expire on 26th June 2011 or at the conclusion of the 1.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the next AGM of the company to be held after the date of accounts for the year ended 30th November 2009. the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier, 2.
To re-elect Steve Burke as a director.
save that if the company should before such expiry 3.
To re-elect Simon Clarke as a director.
enter into a contract of purchase then the purchase 4.
To re-elect John Salmon as a director.
may be completed or executed wholly or partly after 5.
To elect Lesley James as a director.
To elect Lady Katherine Innes Ker as a director.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the company to 12.
Special Resolution hold office until the conclusion of the next General Meeting That with effect from the conclusion of the meeting: at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
i the Articles of Association of the company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the companys sPecial Business Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: Section 28 of the Companies Act 2006 are to be treated as provisions of the companys Articles of 8.
Ordinary Resolution Association: and That the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30th November 2009 be approved.
ii the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the 9.
Ordinary Resolution purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of That the authority to allot relevant securities and equity Association of the company in substitution for and to securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the exclusion of the existing Articles of Association.
the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 26th June 2011 or at the 13.
Special Resolution conclusion of the AGM of the company to be held after That a general meeting other than an AGM may be called the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the on not less than 14 clear days notice.
earlier and for such period the Section 551 amount shall be 4,963,907.
Special R esolution That the power to allot relevant securities and equity Reeta Stokes securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of Company Secretary the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 26th June 2011 or at the 3rd March 2010 conclusion of the AGM of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the Registered Office: earlier and for such period the Section 561 amount shall Sir Stanley Clarke House be 1,001,805.
Special R esolution Birmingham B32 1AF That, in accordance with Article 10 of its Articles of Association and Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the board of directors may from time to time determine PROVIDED THAT the general authority conferred by this Resolution shall: a be limited to 20,036,093 ordinary shares of 10p each: b not permit the payment per share of more than 105% 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
co. uk Explanatory notes to the Resolutions Resolution 9, which will be proposed as an Ordinary 1 Resolution 1 is to receive the accounts and the reports Resolution, provides for the Section 551 amount to be of the directors and the auditors for the year ended 30th 4,963,907 being an amount equal to the authorised November 2009. but unissued share capital of the company at the date of this report and representing 25% of the companys issued 2 Resolutions 2 to 4 concern the re-election of directors share capital at that date.
The board has no intention at retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association present to exercise the authority to allot shares under this of the company.
At this years Annual General Meeting resolution.
AGM, the directors to retire by rotation will be Steve Burke, Simon Clarke and John Salmon.
Each of the Resolution 10, which will be proposed as a Special directors has undergone, during the year, a performance Resolution, provides for the Section 561 amount to be evaluation and the board remains satisfied that each 1,001,805 representing 5% of the companys issued director proposed for re-election remains committed to the share capital.
role and continues to be an effective and valuable member of the board.
Biographical details of these directors can be The prescribed period for which these powers and found on pages 48 and 49. authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held next year or on 26th June 2011 if 3 The Companys Articles of Association require any director earlier, when the directors intend to seek renewal of the appointed by the board to retire at the first AGM following authorities.
Accordingly, Lesley James and Lady Katherine Innes Ker, having been appointed on 6 Resolution 11 is to renew the authority for the company to 19th October 2009, offer themselves for election in purchase certain of its own shares for a further year.
Their biographies are shown on directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority pages 48 and 49. but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the board has 4 Resolution 7 is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as no intention to exercise the authority.
auditors to hold office until the next general meeting of the company at which accounts are presented and 7 Resolution 12 proposes to adopt new articles of to authorise the directors to determine the level of the association the New Articles with immediate effect auditors remuneration.
at this years AGM in order to update the companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles, 5 Resolution 8 is to approve the Directors Remuneration primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Report, which is included on pages 58 to 65 and provides Shareholders Rights Regulation and the implementation details of the groups remuneration policy for the directors of the remaining parts of the Companies Act 2006 and senior executives.
In accordance with the sections the 2006 Act.
439 and 440 of the Companies Act 2006, the vote on this resolution is advisory and no directors remuneration is The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are conditional upon the passing of this resolution.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature reflect changes made by the 6 The existing general authority of the directors to allot 2006 Act and conform the language of the New Articles shares and the current disapplication of the statutory prewith that used in the model articles for public companies emption rights granted at the companys 2009 AGM expire set out in The Companies Model Articles Regulations at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
As certain provisions of the Current Articles have been deleted and new provisions Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association inserted, the New Articles are renumbered accordingly.
contains a general authority for the directors to allot The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current shares in the company for a period not exceeding five Articles are available for inspection as described.
years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 551 amount Companys Objects approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the The provisions regulating the operations of the company company.
Article 8.2 also empowers the directors during are currently set out in the companys Memorandum and the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection Articles of Association.
The companys Memorandum with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any contains, among other things, the objects clause which other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal sets out the scope of the activities the company is amount approved by a Special Resolution of the company authorised to undertake.
indd 113 02 03 2010 11:45 114 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 notice of annual geneRal meeting The 2006 Act has considerably reduced the constitutional Articles which duplicate statutory provisions significance of a companys memorandum.
It provides Provisions in the Articles which replicate provisions that a memorandum will record only the names of the contained in the Act are in the main to be removed from subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber the New Articles.
This is in line with both the approach has agreed to take in the company.
Under the 2006 Act, advocated by the Government that statutory provisions the objects clause and all other provisions which are should not be duplicated in the companys constitution currently contained in a companys memorandum, for and that of the company in the implementation of the existing companies at 1 October 2009, will be deemed 2006 Act.
to be contained in a companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special 8.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders resolution.
Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the company to 21 clear days unless Further the 2006 Act states that unless a companys shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
This abolishes the need for companies to continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
For this reason, the company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all Before the Shareholders Rights Regulations came into other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of force on 3 August 2009, the company was able to call the 2006 Act, are to be treated as forming part of the general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days companys Articles of Association.
Resolution 12 confirms notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In the removal of these provisions for the company.
As the order to preserve this ability, Resolution 13 seeks such effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement approval.
The approval will be effective until the companys currently in the companys Memorandum of Association next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain be proposed.
an express statement regarding the limited liability of the shareholders.
The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM Authorised share capital and unissued shares or to appoint someone else to vote on your behalf.
The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and this is reflected a A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting in the New Articles.
The directors will still be limited as to may appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his the number of shares they can allot at any time because her behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy the allotment authority continues to be required under the in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is 2006 Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares of the member.
A proxy need not be Voting by proxies on a show of hands a member but must attend the meeting in person.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Proxy forms should be lodged with the registrars office 2006 Act so that it now provides that each proxy appointed or submitted not later than 48 hours before the time by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless the for which the meeting is convened.
Completion of the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which appropriate proxy form does not prevent a member from case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if attending and voting in person if he she is entitled to do so the proxy has been instructed by one or more members and so wishes.
to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
The Current Articles have been b To be valid, the Form of Proxy and the power of attorney amended to reflect these changes.
or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must Adjournments for lack of quorum be received by the companys registrars before 12 noon on Under the 2006 Act as amended by the Shareholders Wednesday 24 March 2010, in hard copy Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack form either by post, by courier or by hand to the of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the companys registrars, Equiniti Aspect House, Spencer original meeting.
The Current Articles have been changed Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA.
Voting record date Under the 2006 Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the company must determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
The Current Articles have been amended to reflect this requirement.
co. uk c Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person h Electronic proxy appointment through CREST nominated under s146 Companies Act 2006 to enjoy CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies information rights Nominated Person may, under an through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service agreement with the member who nominated him her, have may do so for the AGM and any adjournment s thereof a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person does CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored not have this right or does not wish to exercise it, he or members, and those CREST members who have she may have a right under such an agreement to give the appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their member voting instructions.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
d The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in Note a does not apply to In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Nominated Persons.
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly e As at 3rd March 2010 being the last working day prior to authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland the publication of this notice, the companys issued share Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the capital consisted of 200,360,931 shares, carrying one information required for such instructions, as described vote each, which represents the total voting rights in the in the CREST Manual available at www.
com company as at that date.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or relates to an amendment to f The following documents are available for inspection the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, during normal business hours at the registered office in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by of the company on any business day and may also be the companys agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for inspected at the Marketing Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of Devon Way, Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham, meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken B31 2TS at least 15 minutes prior to the commencement to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to of, and during the continuance of, the AGM: the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the companys agent is able to retrieve the message by i copies of the directors service contracts with the enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
company: After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the ii copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointee through other means.
appointment: and CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST iii a copy of the companys current Memorandum and sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI the Articles of Association and the New Articles of does not make available special procedures in CREST Association.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of g In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the Securities Regulations 2001, the company gives notice CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST that only those shareholders entered on the relevant member is a CREST personal member or sponsored register of members the Register for certificated or member or has appointed a voting service provider s, uncertificated shares of the company as the case may be to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service at 6 p. m. on Wednesday 24th March 2010 the Specified provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to Time will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the respect of the number of shares registered in their name CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, at the time.
Changes to entries on the Register after the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Specified Time will be disregarded in determining the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in rights of any person to attend or vote at that meeting.
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual Should the meeting be adjourned to a time not more than concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply timings.
for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation Should the meeting be adjourned for a longer period, 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in the notice.
indd 115 02 03 2010 11:45 116 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 i Representatives of shareholders that are corporations l you may not use any electronic address provided in either will be required to produce evidence of their proper this Notice of General Meeting or any related documents appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please including the Proxy Form to communicate with the contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on company for any purposes other than those expressly this.
j Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s m Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his ask questions.
The company must cause to be answered proxy to exercise all or any of his rights, to attend, speak any such question relating to the business being dealt and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential provided.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less information, b the answer has already been given on a than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in undesirable in the interests of the company or the good relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
order of the meeting that the question be answered.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form n A copy of this notice, and other information required by has been issued in respect of a designated account for a s311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated companys website at www.
k To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars helpline on 08713 842 198 or from overseas 44 1214 157047 or you may photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
