59 Statements Governance Financial statements Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Investors The following new standards, amendments to standards and Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2009 and have not been accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as early adopted.
Their expected impact is still being assessed in adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable detail by management: to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based statements have been prepared under the historical cost payment transaction effective from 1 January 2010. convention, as modified by available-for-sale financial assets, IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations.
and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held for sale and instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
IAS The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial requires management to exercise its judgement in the process statements.
of applying the groups accounting policies.
The areas involving IAS 28, Investments in associates.
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures.
assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated IAS 38 amendment, Intangible Assets.
financial statements are disclosed on page 64.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
The following new standards and amendments to standards IFRIC 17, Distributions of non-cash assets to owners.
are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from customers.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expenses that is, non-owner changes in equity Consolidation in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non-owner The group financial statements consolidate the financial changes in equity to be presented separately from owner statements of the company and all its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries changes in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
are all entities over which the group has the power to govern As a result the group presents in the consolidated statement the financial and operating policies generally accompanying of changes in equity all owner changes in equity, whereas a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
control is transferred to the group and are fide-consolidated Comparative information has been re-presented so that it from the date on which control ceases.
also is in conformity with the revised standard.
There was All intra-group transactions are eliminated as part of the no impact on the financial position or performance of consolidation process.
IFRS 7 amendment Financial instruments Disclosures.
Business combinations The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair Under the requirements of IFRS 3, all business combinations value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements accounting.
The cost of a business acquisition is the aggregate by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy.
There was of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities no impact on the financial position or performance of incurred or assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer the group.
and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, The cost of a business combination is allocated at the Segment reporting.
It requires a management approach acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identifiable under which segment information is presented on the same assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
There has recognition criteria, at their fair values at that date.
The been no change to the reportable segments presented.
acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively The following new standards, amendments to standards and obtains control of the acquiree.
An intangible asset, such as interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial customer contracts, brands, patents or royalties, is recognised year beginning 1st January 2009, but have no material impact if it meets the definition of an intangible asset in IAS 38 on the group.
Intangible assets, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the IAS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs.
groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment vesting as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value conditions and cancellations.
of the groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income and IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial statements statement.
puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for the construction of real estate.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
60 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued Non-current assets held for sale Property, plant and equipment Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for Land and buildings comprise mainly factories and offices.
All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair values less costs to sell.
subsequent depreciation, except for land, which is shown at cost.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as to the acquisition of the items.
held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through Textile assets such as garments and linen and washroom a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly equipment which are owned by the group entities where probable and the asset or disposal group is available for substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such equipment is retained by group entities are capitalised as fixed immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify assets and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the Depreciation of assets is calculated using the straight line date of classification.
method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life, as follows: Segment reporting a Land and buildings Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionmaker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible buildings value of freehold properties and leasehold properties with 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the This rate has been determined having regard to the groups operating segments, has been identified as the Davis executive board.
practice to maintain these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to extend and make improvements from time to The Davis executive board considers the business from both time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short leasehold land a geographical and product service perspective: Textile and buildings are depreciated by equal instalments over the maintenance Nordic, Textile maintenance Continent, Textile period of the lease.
maintenance UK and Ireland and Clinical Solutions and Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful Decontamination.
The Clinical Solutions and Decontamination life of the related asset or to the scheduled date of the next segment is reported although it does not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8. major renovation, whichever is sooner.
b Plant and machinery Foreign currency translation Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per annum, depending a Functional and presentation currency on the class of the asset.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the c Textile assets and washroom equipment groups entities are measured using the currency of the Depreciated at rates of 20% to 33%, depending on class of primary economic environment in which the entity operates asset, and augmented where necessary by amounts to cover the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys wastage, obsolescence and loss.
When properties, plant or equipment are sold, the difference between the sales proceeds and net book value is included in b Group companies The results of group entities that have a functional currency the income statement.
different from the presentation currency sterling are Residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed annually translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and and amended where necessary.
An assets carrying amount the balance sheets are translated at year end exchange rates.
is w ritten down immediately to its recoverable amount if the Exchange differences arising on retranslation are taken assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The directly to shareholders equity.
recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less In addition, exchange differences arising from the costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing translation of borrowings and other currency instruments value in use, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which designated as hedges of such investments are also taken there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating to shareholders equity.
units and cash flow forecasts are made on the assumptions consistent with the most up-to-date budgets and plans that Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition have been formally approved by the directors.
These cash flows of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the are discounted using the weighted average cost of capital for foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
the group, adjusted for the particular risks of the cashgenerating unit being reviewed for impairment.
Pre-contract bid costs Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until the group is Intangible assets appointed preferred bidder.
Preferred bidder status provides a Goodwill sufficient confidence that the conclusion of the contract is Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition probable, the outcome can be reliably measured and is over the fair value of the groups share of the net identifiable expected to generate sufficient net cash inflows to enable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to Goodwill net of amortisation prior to 1st January 2005 in appointment as preferred bidder are capitalised onto the respect of business combinations made since 1st January 1998 balance sheet as prepayments.
The prepayment is expensed is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill in respect of to the income statement over the period of the contract.
business combinations made on or before 31st December 1997 Costs, which have been expensed, are not subsequently remains eliminated against reserves.
reinstated when a contract award is achieved.
61 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating The group documents at the inception of the transaction the units.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an purpose of impairment testing.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the relating to the entity sold except for goodwill eliminated hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes against reserves.
in fair values of hedged items.
The fair value of various derivative instruments used for b Computer software Intellectual property rights hedging purposes are disclosed in note 16.
Movements on the Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use hedging reserve in shareholders equity are shown in note 24. the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their The group holds no trading derivatives.
estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value group, and that it is estimated will generate economic benefits of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include the costs of software development hedged risk.
The group has one fair value hedge in respect of a cross Computer software development costs recognised as assets currency fixed to floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the exchange are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding component of the derivative will continue to be taken to the five years.
income statement other gains and losses along with the c Customer contracts exchange on the related borrowings.
The interest component Intangible assets arising either from legal or contractual rights of the derivative item will be amortised to the income which have been purchased are required to be separately statement over the period to maturity.
identified from goodwill and are stated at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a business b Net investment hedge Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the combination, at fair value.
The fair value attributable to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised directly against customer contracts is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows to be generated from that asset at the risk reserves.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion adjusted weighted average cost of capital for the entity.
is recognised immediately in the income statement.
This amount is amortised over the period in which the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the company is expected to benefit from the contracts acquired, income statement when the foreign operation is partially over periods ranging from two to five years.
c Cash flow hedge Financial assets The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives The group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as loans that are designated to qualify as cash flow hedges are and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The groups cash flow hedges which are in respect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest determines the classification of its financial assets at initial rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts result recognition.
in recognition in either the currency translation component Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with of equity or in the hedging reserve.
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the active market.
hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends will be transferred to the income statement.
on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging d Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do The group designates certain derivatives as either i hedges not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value in the income statement.
hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or iii hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedge.
62 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued e Energy contracts Current and deferred income tax The group occasionally takes out energy contracts in relation The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the to the supply of gas and electricity.
Such contracts are not tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet recognised as derivative financial instruments as they are held date in the countries where the groups subsidiaries operate with the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial and generate taxable income.
item in accordance with the entitys expected purchase, Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability sale or usage requirements.
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in Inventories the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted value.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out FIFO or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset comprises of raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Net realisable value is the Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Full provision is is probable that future taxable profits will be available against made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent Trade receivables that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less case it is recognised in equity.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that Employee benefits the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according a Pension obligations to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the The group operates various pension schemes.
The schemes change in provision is recognised in the income statement.
are funded through payments to insurance companies or a trustee administered fund, determined by periodic actuarial Cash and cash equivalents calculations.
The group has both defined benefit and defined Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held contribution plans.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee with original maturities of three months or less.
will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
Share capital A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are recorded the group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
at par value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay Where shares are issued above par value, the proceeds in further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets excess of par value are recorded in the share premium account.
to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service Where any group company purchases the companys equity in the current and prior periods.
share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly The net liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the attributable to the companys shareholders until the shares defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
net of any directly attributable incremental costs, is included The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by in equity attributable to the companys shareholders.
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is Borrowings determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amount initially and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of recognised net of transaction costs and the redemption value the related pension liability.
is recognised in the income statement over the period of the Current and past service costs, to the extent they have vested, borrowings using the effective interest method.
Commitment are recognised in operating costs in the Income Statement fees for undrawn committed borrowing facilities are expensed together with interest costs on plan liabilities and the expected during the period to which they relate.
Borrowings are classified as non-current liabilities where the Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the adjustments and change in actuarial assumptions are credited liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
or charged to the statement of comprehensive income and expense net of deferred tax.
63 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions to Revenue recognition publicly or privately administered pension insurance or trustee Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net of value added tax and other similar sales based administered plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has no further payment obligations once taxes, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are the group.
Revenue is recognised as follows: recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
a Service income Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent Income received or receivable in respect of service income that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is credited to revenue as and when services are rendered in is available.
respect of linen and washroom services.
Revenue is recognised on a per item basis for delivery of laundered textiles to hotels b Share-based payment plans and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and laundering of workwear The groups management awards employees share options, from time to time, both on a discretionary and nonis recognised on a regular, periodic basis in accordance with discretionary basis which are subject to vesting conditions.
the terms of the contract.
The economic cost of awarding the share options to its b Sale of goods revenue employees is recognised as an employee benefit expense For non-contract based business, revenue represents the value in the income statement equivalent to the fair value of the of goods delivered.
The fair value is determined by reference to the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for those schemes Leases which have no market-based vesting conditions and the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group Monte-Carlo model for the awards under the Performance has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are Share Plan.
The charge is recognised in the Income Statement classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the over the vesting period of the award.
leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the The proceeds received are credited to share capital nominal leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability value and share premium when the options are exercised.
and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the c Termination benefits finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding lease Termination benefits are payable when an employment is obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an long-term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining shown to be committed to either: terminating the employment balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and of current employees according to a detailed formal plan equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated without possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination over the shorter of the assets useful life and the lease term.
benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and redundancy.
rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
d Holiday pay Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as received from the lessor are charged to the income statement such are charged to the Income Statement as the benefits on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but not yet taken.
Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is Provisions recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and legal in the period in which the dividends are approved by the claims are recognised when the group has a present legal companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is when paid.
more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been Income statement presentation a Exceptional items reliably estimated.
Items that are material in size and non-operating in nature Provisions are measured at the present value of the are presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The directors are of the opinion that the separate recording of exceptional items provides helpful information about the groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events, which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional include, inter alia, restructuring of businesses, gains and losses on disposal of properties, impairment of goodwill and nonrecurring income.
b Amortisation of customer con tracts These are presented separately in the income statement as they arise from acquisitions.
