Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the third Annual General Meeting of Notes: UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a on 4 June 2010 at 10am for the following purposes.
To poll, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as an Ordinary a member of the Company.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy 1.
To approve and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts of the is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
Company for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company until the 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the 3.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is 4.
To re-elect Mr Hill as a Director of the Company.
signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, 5.
To re-elect Mr Fish as a Director of the Company.
so as to reach Computershare Investor Services CI Limited, 6.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not later than 10am on 2 June 2010.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a 1.
To increase the limit on aggregate Directors remuneration member from attending in person at the Meeting and voting by amending Article 79 1 of the Articles of Association and should he or she so wish.
Part 6 Section 3.10 i of the Prospectus dated January 2010 by the deletion of the figure 200,000 and the substitution 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also of the figure 300,000. for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name 2.
THAT, pursuant to section 2 1 of the Companies entered on the register of members not later than 2 June 2010.
Transitional Provisions Regulations, 2008 the Memorandum Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be of Incorporation of the Company be altered, so that the limit disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend of the authorised share capital of the Company of and vote at such Meeting.
350,000,000 be cancelled, by the deletion of paragraph 5 in its entirety and its replacement with the following new 6.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for paragraph 5: inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself.
The Company may issue an unlimited number of shares of 0.25 each.. 7.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day 3.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as a Special Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close Resolution: of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 315 of Company.
The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to make market acquisitions within the meaning of section 316 I of 8.
As at 29 March 2010, the latest practicable date prior to the law of its own ordinary shares of 25p each shares either publication of this document, the Company had 1,185,098,858 for retention as treasury shares for future resale of transfer or ordinary shares in issue with a total of 1,185,098,858 voting cancellation, provided that: rights.
i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired 9.
Any person holding 3% of the total voting rights in the shall be equal to 14.99 per cent.
of the Companys issued share Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: By order of the Board iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Northern Trust International Fund Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011 or, if Administration earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the passing of this Services Guernsey Limited resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and Secretary v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the Trafalgar Court authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority Les Banques which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration St Peter Port of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to Guernsey GY1 3QL any such contract.
Date 29 March 2010 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 37
