51 Statements Governance Financial statements Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Investors A copy of the financial statements annual report is on the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable companys website at www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys law and regulations.
website, and the work carried out by the auditors does not Company law requires the directors to prepare financial involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have prepared the group financial statements in accordance have occurred to the financial statements since they were with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as placed on the website.
Information published on the internet is adopted by the European Union, and the parent company accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group and legislation in other jurisdictions.
parent company financial statements are required by law to In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each of the directors confirms give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the company and that, to the best of their knowledge: group for that period.
i the financial statements of the group, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The financial statements on pages 53108 have been prepared Standards as adopted by the EU, and the financial on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have statements of the company, prepared in accordance been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting judgements and estimates have been made and applicable Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, accounting standards have been followed.
financial position and profit or loss of the company and The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group the undertakings included in the consolidation taken and company keeps accounting records which disclose with as a whole: and reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements ii the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the and performance of the business and the position IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements of the company and the undertakings included in the comply with the Companies Act 2006. consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and company and to prevent and detect fraud and The current directors and their functions are listed on page 35. other irregularities.
By order of the board This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors Report, is made with a view to distinguishing for members the respective responsibilities of the directors and David Lawler Company Secretary the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
25th February 2010 52 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 BlackLining Demo BlackLining Demo FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements 53 Independent auditors report 54 Consolidated income statement BlackLining Demo 55 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and expense 56 Consolidated balance sheet 57 Consolidated cash flow statement 58 Consolidated statement of changes in total equity 59 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements 64 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty 65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 100 Independent auditors report for the parent company 101 Parent company financial statements 102 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 104 Notes to the parent company financial statements 108 Five year record
