64 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The calculations of the recognised assets and liabilities from The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates such plans are based upon statistical and actuarial calculations.
In particular the present value of the defined benefit obligation and assumptions that affect the application of policies and is impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to arrive at reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related disclosures.
The estimates and underlying assumptions the present value of future pension liabilities, and assumptions on future increases in salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, are based on historical experience and other relevant factors.
the groups independent actuaries use statistically based This approach forms the basis of making the judgements about assumptions covering areas such as future withdrawals of carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily participants from the plan and estimates on life expectancy.
Actual results may differ from The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from these estimates.
actual results due to changes in market and economic The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer an ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting estimates may be or shorter life spans of participants and other changes in the necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which factors being assessed.
These differences could impact the the estimate was based, or as a result of new information.
assets or liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in future Such changes are recognised in the period in which the periods.
The last triennial valuation of the main UK pension estimate is revised.
scheme took place in February 2007.
The key assumptions about the future and key sources of c Income taxes estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material At 31st December 2009, the net liability for current income adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within taxes is 9.0 million and the net liability for deferred income the next 12 months are described below.
Estimates may be required in a Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, determining the level of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which management believes are reasonable and including goodwill The group has property, plant and equipment with a carrying adequately recognises any income tax related uncertainties.
value of 535.3 million note 10, goodwill with a carrying Various factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects value of 461.7 million note 8 and intangible assets with a on the income tax assets and liabilities.
These include changes carrying value of 68.0 million note 9.
These assets are in tax laws, tax rates, interpretations of existing tax laws, future reviewed annually for impairment as described above levels of spending and in overall levels of future earnings.
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment sections.
d Share-based payments To assess if any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets The economic cost of awarding shares and share options to employees is reflected by recording a charge in the and their eventual disposal.
Actual outcomes could vary from income statement equivalent to the fair value of the benefit such estimates of discounted future cash flows.
Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery or awarded over the vesting period.
The fair values of the awards are determined by use of the Black-Scholes and equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition, or lower than anticipated sales could result Monte-Carlo models.
in shortened useful lives or impairment.
e Provisions b Pensions and other post-employment benefits Provisions for vacant properties, restructuring costs and The group operates a number of defined benefit schemes legal claims are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events within the UK and Europe note 31.
As at 31st December 2009 the present value of the groups defined benefit and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources obligation for funded plans was a deficit of 9.7 million and will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount a deficit of 23.2 million for unfunded plans.
