109 statements governance financial statements Investors BlackLining Demo Advisers investment bankers commerzbank formerly dresdner Kleinwort nm Rothschild & sons stockbrokers Jpmorgan cazenove oriel securities solicitors slaughter and may, london Auditors  llp, london Registrars equiniti limited financial calendar final results announced february Annual general meeting April ordinary final dividend paid may BlackLining Demo interim results announced August ordinary interim dividend paid october shareholder information enquiries relating to shareholders, such as queries concerning notification of change of address, dividend payments and lost share certificates, should be made to the companys registrars.
the company has a share account, management and dealing facility for all shareholders via equiniti limited shareview.
this offers shareholders secure access to their account details held on the share register to amend address information and payment instructions directly, as well as providing a simple and convenient way of buying and selling the companys ordinary shares.
for internet services visit www.
co. uk or the investor relations sections of the companys website www.
the shareview dealing service is also available by telephone on 08456 037037 between 8.00 am and 4.30 pm monday to friday.
the best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the companys registrars to pay them directly into a bank or building society account: tax vouchers are then mailed to shareholders separately.
this method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
dividend mandate forms are available from the registrars either from their website www.
co. uk or by telephone on the equiniti general shareholder helpline number below.
calling from the uK: 0871 384 2179 or if calling from overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 BlackLining Demo calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a bt landline: other telephony provider costs may vary.
website financial information about the company, including Annual reports, public announcements and share price data, is available from the companys website at www.
co. uk, which also contains further information about the group and links to the websites of its subsidiaries: sunlight service group www.
co. uk sophus berendsen www.
com FSC forest stewardship council.
this ensures Radley Yeldar www.
com there is an audited chain of custody from the design and production.
SGS-COC-003320 tree in the well-managed forest through to the The Midas Press Plc finished document in the printing factory.
the midas press plc are fsc certified.
this document is printed on cocoon ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an silk 100 which is 100% recycled.
the paper is also fsc certified and manufactured environmental management system against which at an iso 14001 accredited mill.
an organisation can be credited by a third party.
BlackLining Demo Registered office The Davis Service Group Plc 4 grosvenor place london sw1x 7dl Registered n 1480047 tel: 020 7259 6663 fax: 020 7259 6948 e-mail: reception@dsgplc.
co. uk BlackLining Demo www.
co. uk k Results presentation k pdf downloads k investor information BlackLining Demo
