UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of Directors responsibility statement the Annual Report and the financial statements Each of the Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view with applicable law and regulations.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent taken as a whole: and company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and have elected to prepare the parent company financial and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a statements on the same basis.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair By order of the Board view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company M C Allan J J Lister and of their profit or loss for that period.
Director Director In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 3 March 2010 statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
