UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting 93 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of 7.
THAT, in accordance with Section 570 1 of the Act, the The UNITE Group plc the Company will be held at The Core, Directors be and are empowered to allot equity securities within 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 18 May the meaning of Section 560 1 of the Act pursuant to the 2010 for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the general authority conferred on them by Resolution 6 above as following resolutions which, in the case of resolutions numbered if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 1 to 6 inclusive, shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions and, provided that this power shall be limited: in the case of resolutions numbered 7 to 9 inclusive, will be a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an proposed as special resolutions.
offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity Ordinary business securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those 1.
To receive the audited annual accounts of the Company for the shareholders are proportionate as nearly as practicable to year ended 31 December 2009, together with the Directors the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on report and Auditors report on those accounts.
that date, but the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider expedient in relation 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under ended 31 December 2009. the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant 3.
To re-appoint Mr R S Walker as a Director of the Company.
regulatory body or stock exchange: and 4.
To re-appoint Mr J M Tonkiss as a Director of the Company.
b to the allotment other than under a above of equity securities having a nominal value not exceeding in 5.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to hold office until the aggregate 1,995,341 conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the Directors to and this authority shall expire on the date falling 15 months from determine their remuneration.
the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held Special business following the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement 6.
THAT, in substitution for any equivalent authorities and powers which would or might require equity securities to be allotted granted to the Directors prior to the passing of this Resolution, after it expires and the Directors may allot equity securities in the Directors be and are generally and unconditionally pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not authorised pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 expired and provided further that this authority shall supersede the Act : and revoke all previous authorities under Section 570 1 of a to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the the Act.
Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any 8.
THAT a general meeting other than an annual general meeting security into shares of the Company, up to an aggregate may be called upon not less than 14 clear days notice.
THAT: b to allot equity securities as defined by Section 560 1 of the Act in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate a the articles of association of the Company be amended nominal amount of 13,302,275: by deleting to the fullest extent permitted by law all of the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association a. in favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of which, by virtue of Section 28 of the Act, are to be treated the Company, where the equity securities respectively as provisions of the Companys articles of association: attributable to the interests of such holders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable, to the b any limit on the maximum amount of shares that may be respective number of ordinary shares in the capital of allotted by the Company which is imposed by the amount the Company held by them: and of the Companys authorised share capital that is in force be revoked: and b. to holders of any other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Directors otherwise c the draft articles of association produced to the meeting and consider necessary, initialled for the purposes of identification by the chairman of the meeting be and they are adopted by the Company in but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as substitution for, and to the exclusion of, its existing articles the Directors consider expedient in relation to fractional of association.
entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory BY ORDER OF THE BOARD body or stock exchange, A D Reid SECRETARY provided that this authority shall expire unless renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, on the date Dated 3 March 2010 falling 15 months from the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, Registered office: at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the The Core Company to be held following the passing of this Resolution, 40 St Thomas Street save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer Bristol or enter into an agreement which would or might require shares BS1 6JX in the Company to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
Other information 92ibc UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 94 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 12.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of Notes proxies above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
A member of the Company who wishes to attend the meeting in person should exercised by shareholders of the Company.
arrive at the offices of the Company, The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 13.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as 6JX in good time before the meeting, which will commence at 9.30 a. m. In order amended, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the to gain admittance to the meeting, members may be required to produce their register of members of the Company at 5.00 p. m. two days before the meeting attendance card, which is attached to the form of proxy enclosed with this shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares document, or otherwise prove their identity.
registered in their name at that time.
A member of the Company who is unable or does not wish to attend the meeting 14.
As at 3 March 2010 the Companys issued share capital consists of 159,627,311 is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend and to ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the speak and vote on his her behalf at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member Company as at 3 March 2010 are 159,627,311. of the Company but must attend the meeting to represent his her appointing member.
Appointing a proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person 15.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or and voting at the meeting.
A form of proxy which may be used to make such any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
You can only Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
appoint a proxy using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the 16.
Members attending the meeting have the right to ask and, subject to the proxy form.
provisions of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered, any questions 3.
To be valid, any form of proxy, and the original or duly certified copy of the power relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or authenticated, 17.
The following information is available at www.
co. uk 1 the matters set must be received by hand or by post at Computershare Investor Services PLC, out in this Notice of Annual General Meeting: 2 the total numbers of shares in the The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, no later than 9.30 a. m. on Company in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the 14 May 2010. meeting: 3 the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST the meeting: and 4 members statements, members resolutions and members electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting and any matters of business received by the Company after the date on which notice of adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those 18.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their Section 527 of the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys appropriate action on their behalf.
accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be 5.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to laid before the annual general meeting: or b any circumstance connected with an be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications, and must annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Act.
contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST The Company may not require the members requesting any such website Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section must, in order to be a valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later agent CREST ID 3RA50 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business specified in Note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST has been required under Section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Application Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message 19.
In accordance with Section 338 of the Act, a member or members of the by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338 3 of the Act are change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be met require the Company to give to members notice of a resolution which may communicated to the appointee through other means.
properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting, provided that: 6.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service a the resolution must not be, if passed, ineffective whether by reason of providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, and b the resolution must not be defamatory of any person, frivolous or therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must be responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member authenticated by the person or persons making it, must identify the resolution of is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting which notice is to be given and must be received by the Company not later than service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which notice is given of the provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message meeting.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, electronic form is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this and authenticated bear their respective meanings set out in the Act in relation to connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, to a company.
voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST 20.
In accordance with Section 338A of the Act, a member or members of the Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Company may provided that the criteria set out in Section 338A 3 of the Act 7.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the are met require the Company to include in the business to be dealt with at the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities meeting a matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be Regulations 2001 as amended.
included in the business of the meeting, provided that the matter is not defamatory of any person, frivolous or vexatious.
A request may be in hard copy form or 8.
If you would like to submit your proxy vote via the internet, you can do so by electronic form, must identify the matter to be included in the business, must be accessing our registrars website www.
You will require accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be the control number, your unique PIN which will expire at the end of the voting authenticated by the person or persons making it and must be received by the period and your Shareholder Reference Number SRN, printed on the proxy Company not later than six weeks before the meeting, or, if later, the time at which card, in order to log in and submit your proxy vote electronically.
You can access notice is given of the AGM.
In the foregoing sentence, the terms hard copy form, this site from any internet enabled PC.
electronic form and authenticated bear the respective meanings set out in the 9.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to Act in relation to a communication, or a document or information sent or supplied, appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will to a company.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint 21.
The following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint Company during the usual business hours on any weekday Saturday, Sunday or holding the first-named being the most senior.
public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the 10.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment in respect of the same annual general meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the shares, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until its conclusion: proxies will take precedence.
a copies of the Executive Directors service contracts with the Company 11.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section and any of its subsidiary undertakings and letters of appointment of the 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an Non-Executive Directors: and agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was b a copy of the proposed new articles of association of the Company, and nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a a copy of the existing articles of association marked to show the changes proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right being proposed in resolution 9 c. or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
