UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Glossary 95 Adjusted, fully diluted net asset value per share Gross financing costs Adjusted NAV This includes all interest paid by the Group and its share of interest paid by joint ventures, including interest capitalised into The basic NAV per share figure is recalculated to take account developments and operating lease rentals.
It includes all receipts of dilutive outstanding share options and adjusted to: and payments under interest rate swaps whether they are effective exclude the mark to market of interest rate swaps or ineffective under IFRS as economically they all hedge interest rate exposures.
It excludes the cost of early termination of loans exclude the impact of deferred tax and swaps.
include the valuation gain not recognised on properties held at cost.
Financing costs Adjusted net debt Gross financing costs net of interest capitalised into developments The Groups debt, net of cash and unamortised debt raising costs, and interest received on deposits.
excluding the mark to market of interest rates swaps.
Interest cover ratio ICR The interest cover ratio is the income generated by a property as a Adjusted net debt to property assets multiple of the interest charge on the debt secured on the property.
Is the adjusted net debt as a percentage of the value of properties.
Net Initial Yield NIY or Yield Adjusted gearing The net operating income generated by a property expressed as Adjusted net debt as a percentage of adjusted net assets.
Net operating income NOI Basis points bps The rental income from completed properties less those operating A basis point is a term used to describe a small percentage, usually costs directly related to the property, hence excluding central in the context of a change, and equates to 0.01% overhead.
Net rental growth Net profit contribution NPC The annual growth in net operating income less costs from a This is an important indicator of operational performance as it property measured on a like-for-like basis i. e. excluding impact measures the net operating income from the completed properties, of completion and disposals.
net of their financing costs and the Groups total non-development related overheads.
Minimum net worth A minimum net worth covenant measures the value of the Adjusted profit Company against an absolute target.
Adjusted profit is prepared on the basis recommended for real estate companies by EPRA, the European Public Real Estate USAF the Fund Association, which excludes movements relating to changes in values of investment properties and interest rate swaps, profits The UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund established in 2006 on disposal of investment properties but not trading properties is now Europes largest fund that purely focuses on investment in and the related tax effects.
direct let student accommodation investment assets.
The Fund is an open ended infinite life vehicle which has unique buying access to UNITEs portfolio.
UNITE act as Fund Manager of the Fund, as Adjusted earnings per share well as owning a significant minority stake.
The diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit.
UCC Total income from managed portfolio UNITE Capital Cities was established in 2005 as a joint venture This measure indicates the overall scale of the property portfolio between UNITE and GIC Real Estate.
It is a closed-ended vehicle that the Group manages, it comprises rental and related income, due to mature in 2013 and was established by UNITE to develop totalling 164.3 million from properties owned by: and operate student accommodation in London and Edinburgh.
UCC equity is now fully invested and all development projects have m been completed.
43.2 The Group 15.0 Third parties and leased by the Group OCB USAF 78.9 UNITE successfully established a joint venture with Oasis Capital UCC 22.0 Bank in August 2009.
The joint venture consists of three development assets located in London, all of which are due USV 5.2 for completion in 2010.
The Groups total share of this gross income is shown in Note 2 c. USV UNITE Student Village was established in 2004 as a joint venture between UNITE and Lehman Brothers to develop large student village schemes of c. 1,000 bed spaces.
It is a closed-ended fund with one remaining operational asset located in Sheffield.
Other information 92ibc UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 96 Glossary continued Stabilising assets Properties that have recently been developed and are not yet generating their optimal net operating income.
Non-core assets Properties which do not fit with the Groups long term investment strategy, either because of their location or because they are let to universities under long term agreements UCAS UCAS is the central organisation responsible for processing applications for full time undergraduate courses at UK universities and colleges www.
UNIAID UNIAID Foundation is a charity that supports students coping with the financial hurdles to higher education by providing online money management tools and practical support to students www.
UNITE letting arrangements Direct Let Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made directly between the commercial operator and the student.
Lease Properties which are leased to universities for a number of years and have no UNITE management presence.
Nominations Properties where short-hold tenancy agreements are made with students, with the university providing a long term occupancy guarantee in respect of a significant proportion of rooms.
Sale and lease back Properties which have been sold to a third party investor then leased back to the Company.
UNITE are responsible for the management of these assets on behalf of the owner.
Our business Company Information UNITE management Registered Office The Core, Leadership Executive Our core purpose at UNITE is to 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX Mark Allan Chief Executive Registered Number in England deliver the best accommodation 3199160 Joe Lister Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary experience for students, with John Tonkiss Andrew Reid Chief Operating Officer Auditors James Granger KPMG Audit Plc passion and pride.
Corporate Development Director 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB Nathan Goddard Business Development Director Financial Advisers J. P. Morgan Cazenove Caroline Mallin Our mission statement explained: 20 Moorgate Communications Director London EC2R 6DA to deliver Shane Spiers Numis Securities Managing Director, Property Management The London Stock Exchange Building means we do what we say we will 10 Paternoster Square Richard Simpson London EC4M 7LT the best Managing Director, Development we lead, were research based and were recognised Registrars Mark Creedy Computershare Investor Services PLC for our innovation Managing Director, Fund Management PO Box 82 The Pavilions accommodation experience Steve Grant Bridgwater Road Managing Director, Asset Management its the service we provide, as much as the bricks and Bristol BS99 7NH Will Garrard mortar, that creates our customers experience Financial PR Consultants Managing Director, UNITE Modular Systems Financial Dynamics for students Holborn Gate 26 Southampton Buildings and no-one else London WC2A 1PB with passion and pride the way we work, we love what we do and we are proud to tell people who we work for UNITE is the UKs leading developer and co-investing manager of purpose built student accommodation.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London | www.
com UNITE Group Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The UNITE Group plc The Core 40 St Thomas Street Delivering the best Bristol BS1 6JX Tel: 0117 302 7000 Fax: 0117 302 7400 info@unite-group.
com experience for students Annual Report & Accounts 2009
