How to Invest As well as investing in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited directly through a stockbroker, you can enjoy some additional benefits by investing through one of the savings plans run by F&C Management Limited F&C.
You can enjoy the convenience of making regular savings by Direct Debit, take advantage of our tax-efficient ISA wrapper, receive a simple statement every six months and let us automatically reinvest your dividends for you.
F&C Private Investor Plan F&C Child Trust Fund CTF A flexible, low cost way to invest with a lump sum F&C is a leading provider of childrens investment from 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
Suitable for children born after 1 September 2002.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan Invest up to 7,200 tax efficiently each year with Suitable for older children ineligible for a CTF, or if a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from you need access to the funds before the child is 50 a month.
ISA contribution limits are to be 18.
This flexible plan can easily be written under increased to 10,200 with effect from 6 April trust to help reduce inheritance tax liability.
2010 and were increased to that limit on Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum 6 October 2009 for individuals aged over 50. or 25 a month.
You can also transfer any existing ISAs.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and you may not receive back the full amount originally invested.
Tax rates and reliefs depend on the circumstances of the original investor.
Low Charges All the plans are low cost and flexible.
When you buy or sell shares in these plans the dealing fee is only 0.2 per cent.
Government stamp duty of 0.5 per cent also applies on purchases where applicable.
There are no initial or exit charges.
The only annual management fee is on the ISA, which is 60 VAT no matter how many ISAs you take out annually with F&C, or how many lSAs you transfer.
The F&C Child Trust Fund has no initial charges, dealing charges or annual management fee.
How to Invest For more information on any of these products, please either: Contact F&Cs Investor Services Team by Calling us on: 0800 136 420 Emailing us on: info@fandc.
com Contact our Existing plan holders enquiry line by Calling us on: 0845 600 3030 Emailing us on: investor.
com Write to us at: F&C Freepost RLRY-LYSR-KYBU Clandeboye Business Park West Circular Road Bangor BT19 1AR Calls may be recorded.
The above has been approved by F&C Management Limited which is a member of the F&C Asset Management Group and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Stock market and currency movementsmay cause thevalue of shares and the income from them to fall as well as rise and investors may not get .
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Corporate Information Directors Property Valuers of Direct Properties John H Stephen Chairman DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited Donald L Adamson resigned 31 October 2009 48 Warwick Street Jonathan G Hooley appointed 31 October 2009 London W1B 5NL Peter Niven Christopher Russell appointed 31 October 2009 Auditor Brian W Sweetland KPMG Channel Islands Limited Nicholas J M Tostevin ` 20 New Street St. Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4AN Secretary and Registrars Northern Trust International Fund Administration Guernsey Legal Advisers Services Guernsey Limited Ozannes Trafalgar Court 1 Le Marchant Street Les Banques St. Peter Port St. Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4HP Guernsey, Channel Islands UK Legal Advisers Dickson Minto WS Registered Office 16 Charlotte Square Trafalgar Court Edinburgh EH2 4DF Les Banques St. Peter Port Bond Trustee Guernsey, Channel Islands The Bank of New York One Canada Square Investment Managers London E14 5AL F&C Investment Business Limited 80 George Street Marketing Advisers Edinburgh EH2 3BU G&N Collective Funds Services Ltd 14 Alva Street Property Managers Edinburgh EH2 4QG F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc 5 Wigmore Street London W1U 1PB Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee ` Chairman of the Audit Committee Website www.
co. uk MLGEdinburgh 4524 Registered Office Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Registrars Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Trafalgar Court Les Banques St. Peter Port Guernsey, Channel Islands Telephone: 01481 745001
