Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the Channel Islands on Wednesday, 19 May 2010 at 12.30 pm passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, for the following purposes.
save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might Ordinary Business require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if Ordinary Resolutions: the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities ended 31 December 2009 be received.
up to an aggregate nominal value 680,537 being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of 2.
That Mr P Niven, who retires at the first Annual General the issued share capital of the Company, as at Meeting following his appointment, be re-elected as a 25 March 2010.
That Mr J H Stephen, who retires at the first Annual 11.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with General Meeting following his appointment, be resection 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, elected as a Director.
to make market acquisitions within the meaning of section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 4.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires at the first Annual 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary General Meeting following his appointment, be reShares either for retention as treasury shares for elected as a Director.
future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided that: 5.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires at the first Annual a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby General Meeting following his appointment, be reauthorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent elected as a Director.
of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which 6.
That Mr J G Hooley, who retires at the first Annual this resolution is passed: General Meeting following his appointment, be reb the minimum price which may be paid for an elected as a Director.
That Mr C Russell, who retires at the first Annual c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which General Meeting following his appointment, be remay be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 105 per elected as a Director.
cent of the average of the middle market quotations 8.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as derived from the Daily Official List for the as auditor.
Ordinary Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 9.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors remuneration.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Special Resolutions: Company to be held in 2011, or on 19 November 2011, whichever is the earlier, save that the 10.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company Shares pursuant to any such contract.
equity securities, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary By order of the Board shares held by the Company as treasury shares for Northern Trust International Fund Administration cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the Services Guernsey Limited issue of shares to be set out in the listing rules made Secretary by the Financial Services Authority under part VI of the Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended Guernsey, Channel Islands did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, 25 March 2010 provided that this power: 48 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Notes: 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to member may cast on a poll a member must first have his attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy or her name entered on the register of members not later need not be a member of the Company.
than close of business on 17 May 2010.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each disregarded in determining the rights of any member to proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to attend and vote at such Meeting.
As at 25 March 2010, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The 680,537,003 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of form of proxy should be completed and sent, together shares with voting rights was 680,537,003, each carrying with the power of attorney or other authority if any under one voting right.
which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such 7.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting power or authority, so as to reach the Companys rights in the Company who appoints a person other than registrars Computershare Investor Services Jersey the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he Limited, PO Box 83, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St. and such third party complies with their respective Helier, Jersey JE4 8PW not later than 12.30 pm on disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and 17 May 2010.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent appointment will be available for inspection from a member from attending in person at the Meeting and 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
voting should he or she so wish.
