56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Portfolio valuation methodology Summary Quoted investments Most assets in the portfolio are valued using the Discounted Cash Quoted equity investments are valued at closing bid price at the Flow DCF methodology, which derives the present value of an reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting investments expected future cash flows.
Cash flow projections are Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any based on reasonable macroeconomic, industry-specific and companydealing restrictions.
specific financing and operating estimates or assumptions.
Quoted debt investments are valued using quoted prices provided by An appropriate discount rate is then applied.
third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost The discount rate for each investment will vary according to the less fair value adjustments.
investments underlying risks and is derived from a risk premium, applied for each individual asset, in excess of the risk-free rate.
Other Unquoted investments market information, both specific to the Companys investment or to Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following the market sector, may also be incorporated into the discount rate.
methodologies: There are cases in which the DCF methodology will not be used: Discounted Cash Flow DCF investments in other infrastructure funds where the Company Limited Partnership share of fund net assets will value its limited partnership share of the net asset value of Sales basis: expected sales proceeds the fund.
It can generally be assumed, however, that most infrastructure funds will value their underlying assets on a DCF Cost less any fair value adjustments required basis.
The underlying fund valuation may be adjusted to reflect the Companys assessment of the most appropriate discount rate DCF for the nature of the assets held in the fund: DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment quoted assets which will be valued at closing bid price: using reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future assets close to sale, which will be valued on the basis of expected cash flows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate sale proceeds from offers received as part of a sale process, less an risk-adjusted discount rate that quantifies the risk inherent to the appropriate marketability discount: and investment.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and debt instruments, which will be valued using quoted bid prices information specific to the investment or market sector.
provided by third-party broker information, where available, or will be held at cost less any appropriate fair value adjustment.
LP share of fund net assets A fair value adjustment will be made against any investment in Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure a company that has failed or is expected to fail within the next funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups 12 months.
share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount A description of the methodology used to value the portfolio of rate applied may be adjusted by the Company to reflect its 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is set out below in assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature of order to provide more detailed information than is included within the assets held in the fund.
accounting policies and the Investment Advisers report for the valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material Sales basis aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital The expected sales proceeds methodology will be used in cases valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity where offers have been received as part of an investment sales and Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and process.
This may either support the value derived from another Venture Capital Association.
methodology or may be used as the valuation.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds to derive the Basis of valuation valuation where appropriate.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an Cost less fair value adjustment asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the an arms length transaction.
Board, is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the fixed income shares and loan instruments General valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
The methodology that is the most appropriate may consequently include adjustments based on informed and experience-based judgments, and will also consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to period except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgments and making necessary estimates.
