3i Infrastructure plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2009 Significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2009 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group, except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 6 May 2009.
Statement of compliance These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These consolidated and separate financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Law Jersey 1991.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial periods commencing on or after the following dates: Effective for the period beginning on or after IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Payments 1 July 2008 IAS39 IFRS7 Reclassification of financial assets 1 July 2008 IFRIC 9 IAS 39 Amendment embedded derivatives 1 July 2008 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in foreign operations 1 July 2008 IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based Payments: Vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 IAS 32 IAS 1 Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations arising on liquidation 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised 1 January 2009 IFRS 1 IAS 27 Amendment Cost of all investment in a subsidiary: jointly controlled entity of associate 1 January 2009 IFRIC 15 Agreement for the construction of Real Estate 1 January 2009 IFRS 7 Amendment Improving disclosures about financial instruments 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and separate financial statements 1 July 2009 IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised 1 July 2009 IAS 39 Amendment Eligible hedged items 1 July 2009 IFRS 1 Structural Amendment Revised 1 July 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners 1 July 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from customers 1 July 2009 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application and have decided not to adopt these early.
Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Group and the Company are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Board to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Key estimates and judgements for 3i Infrastructure plc include the valuation of unquoted investments and the valuation of the derivative instruments.
Certain prior-year balances have been reclassified to conform with current-year presentation required under IFRS.
42 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Significant accounting policies continued A.
Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which requires investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with jointlycontrolled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Exchange differences i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the non-sterling operation.
C. Investment portfolio i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the investments.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of interest and dividends and changes in fair value of equity investments.
Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Other investments include loan investments and are classified as loans and receivables and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy on page 56.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity investments and recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsidiaries in the separate financial statements of the Company are accounted for at cost less provision for impairment.
ii Income a Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments is the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: b Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments is the movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition and the end of the accounting date converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the end of the period: c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the income statement when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established to the extent that dividends, paid out of pre-acquisition reserves, adjust the fair value of the equity investment: Income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value through profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
D. Fees i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process to acquire an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based on the Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is payable quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in note 20. iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in note 20.
3i Infrastructure plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2009 E. Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used to manage cash flows and overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above.
Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis.
ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments may be used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of portfolio income, the valuation of the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Such instruments shall be used for the sole purpose of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently remeasured to the fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined by discounting future cash flows at the prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to the income statement.
The maturity profile of derivative contracts is measured relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the fair value of the derivative contracts is disclosed accordingly.
F. Other assets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
The cost of such assets or liabilities is considered approximate to their fair value.
They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
G. Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance sheet date.
The cost of other liabilities is considered to be approximate to their fair values.
H. Share capital Share capital issued by the Company is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of proceeds received.
Income taxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Where there are taxable differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the Group is able to control reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available, against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
However, where there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that both the temporary differences will reverse in the forseeable future and taxable profits will be available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
