3i Infrastructure plc 55 Annual report and accounts 2009 Investment policy Summary The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures in 3i Infrastructures primary objective is to build a diversified portfolio the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the Investment of investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and Adviser, that is the most appropriate and effective means of assets.
The Company aims to invest globally, with an initial focus on investing, which may be advised or managed either by the Europe, North America and India.
Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of any The Company intends to achieve this objective by making equity advisory or management fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc investments in quoted or unquoted companies share capital and will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the related shareholder loans, as well as junior or mezzanine debt Investment Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any investments in infrastructure assets.
The Company may also invest in performance fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, infrastructure funds managed or advised by the Investment Adviser if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the or by third parties.
avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement The objective of building a diversified portfolio means that no single where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
investment will represent more than 20% of gross assets including For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation cash holdings at the time of commitment.
Should the total amount on the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent required for an individual transaction exceed 20% of gross assets, the governing body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity Company may co-invest with other investors including 3i Group, interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
subject to related party transaction provisions.
No investment made by the Company will represent more than 20% Most investments will be of a size sufficient to obtain board of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the time of representation, which is an important means of influencing and the making of the investment.
It is expected that most individual actively managing the portfolio businesses.
In cases where the investments will exceed 50 million.
In some cases, the total amount Company acquires a majority equity interest in a business, that required for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum interest may also be a controlling interest.
amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a single investment.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider The Company aims to build a diversified portfolio of equity entering into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
investors who may also be significant shareholders, pursuant to The Company seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a which 3i Group and its subsidiaries or such other investors may focus on Europe, North America and Asia.
co-invest on the same financial and economic terms as the Company.
The suitability of any such co-investment arrangements will be The Companys equity investments will often comprise share capital assessed on a  basis and would be subject and related shareholder loans or other financial instruments that are to both Board and, where applicable, 3i Group and its subsidiaries not shares but that, in combination with shares, are similar in approval.
Depending on the size of the relevant investment and the substance.
The Company may also invest in junior or mezzanine debt identity of the relevant co-investor, such a co-investment in infrastructure businesses or assets.
arrangement may be subject to the related party transaction Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
provisions contained in the Listing Rules and may therefore require However, the Company may also invest in entities owning shareholder consent.
infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of whether any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, if the limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the on the basis included in the Groups accounts.
The Company will, in any case, invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other investment In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will only companies or investment trusts which are listed on the Official List.
make a material change to its investment policy with the approval of shareholders.
