Accounting policies Basis of preparation Accounting estimates and judgements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted of estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, by the EU, adopted IFRS and interpretations issued by the assumptions and judgements affect the reported values of International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the balance sheet or its predecessors IFRIC, which had been approved by the date as well as affecting the reported income and expenses for European Commission as at 30 September 2009. the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements knowledge and judgement of information and financial data, The financial statements have been prepared on the the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
The key historical cost basis, except that certain of the Groups assumptions which affect these results for the year and the financial instruments are stated at their fair values and the balances as at the year-end are specifically identified, where measurement of long-term employee benefits at present appropriate, in the following notes to the Group financial value of the obligation less fair value of any assets held to statements.
The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
a Amortisation periods used for intangible assets - note 13 b Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets - Statement of compliance note 13 Both the parent company financial statements and the Group c Deferred tax assets - note 16 financial statements have been prepared and approved by the d Share-based payments - note 24 directors in accordance with adopted IFRS.
On publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the e Provisions - note 30 Group financial statements, the Company is taking advantage f Pensions - note 34 of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied and have an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date Endorsed and available for early adoption: IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements - Comprehensive revision including a statement of 1 January 2009 comprehensive income IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation - Disclosure of puttable financial instruments 1 January 2009 IFRS 2 Share-based Payment - Amendments relating to vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - Capitalisation of borrowing costs attributable to the development of 1 January 2009 intangible assets IAS 27 Consolidated and separate Financial Statements - Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, 23 January 2009 Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Amendments resulting from Annual 1 January 2009 Improvements to IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations - Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method 1 July 2009 IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRSI and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, jointly-controlled 1 January 2009 IAS 27 entity or associate IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements - Consequential amendments arising from 1 July 2009 changes to IFRS 3 Standards and interpretations not endorsed: IRFS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Investments - Amendments to IFRS 7 1 January 2009 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2013 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these that control commences until the date that control ceases.
standards will materially impact the Group's financial results Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or in the period of initial application although there will be indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an revised presentations to the primary financial statements and entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
No material impact on the Group is The consolidated financial statements include the Groups expected to arise from any other standards which are available share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates for early adoption.
Any future business combinations will be on an equity accounted basis, from the date that significant affected by the revisions to IFRS 3. influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has Basis of consolidation significant influence, but not control, over the financial and The consolidated financial information contained within these operating policies.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and its interest in an associate, the carrying amount is reduced to financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the period to 30 September 2009.
Subsidiaries are entities the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive controlled by the Company and are included from the date obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED All inter-company transactions, balances, income and Finance revenue expenses between Group entities are eliminated on Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions income is recognised using the effective interest rate method with associates are eliminated to the extent of the as it accrues.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are right to receive payment is established which, in the case of eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only listed securities, is the ex-dividend date.
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses Business combinations on investments The acquisition of businesses is accounted for using the Gains and losses both realised and unrealised on financial purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured assets designated as held for trading are recognised in the as the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, consolidated income statement.
Realised and unrealised of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity gains are recognised as part of revenue.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control Gains and losses on financial assets designated as availableof the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the for-sale are initially recognised through the consolidated business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, statement of recognised income and expense.
Upon disposal, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions any gain or loss taken through the consolidated statement for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are of recognised income and expense is reversed out and the recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
full gain or loss from purchase, after any impairment charge previously recognised, is taken through the consolidated Revenue income statement.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that Realised gains and losses on investments are calculated as economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can the difference between the net sales proceeds and cost or be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as the services amortised cost.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments are provided and includes management fees, transaction fees, represent the difference between the valuation of investments performance fees and registration fees.
at the balance sheet date and their original cost or, if they Initial income from the sale of shares in open end investment have been previously revalued, the valuation at the last companies received in advance is taken to the balance sheet balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains and and amortised over the period of the asset management losses recognised in the period also includes the reversal of service, which is estimated based on the Groups experience of gains or losses previously recognised on investments disposed the average holding periods by investors.
of during the current accounting period.
The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of clients where the actual performance of the clients Exceptional income and costs assets exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure outperformance over a set time period.
Performance fees are or earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items recognised when the quantum of the fee can be estimated that arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and reliably, which is normally at the end of the performance which are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure period, when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or then the expenditure incurred is separately recognised on where there is a period of less than six months remaining the face of the income statement as exceptional in order to to the end of the performance period and there is evidence provide more helpful information to investors.
at the reporting date which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes Finance costs is expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings.
assets of the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities and is recognised as an asset or liability of Leases the Group or Company.
All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of and the costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised ownership of the leased asset.
Rental payments made under operating leases are charged Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in to the income statement on a straight line basis over the which they occur directly in equity.
When the calculation term of the lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised recognised as a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on asset is limited to the present value of any future refunds a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Pension costs Employee benefits The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is Short term employee benefits a group personal pension scheme.
In addition overseas Short term employee benefits are recognised as an subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state undiscounted expense and liability when the employee has defined contribution schemes.
Contributions to these defined rendered services during an accounting period.
Short term contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense accumulating compensated absences are recognised when the in the income statement as they become payable under the employee renders the service that increases his entitlement to rules of the schemes.
Non-accumulating compensated The Group also operates three legacy defined benefit absences are recognised when the absence occurs.
pension schemes in the UK which arose on acquisitions, Profit sharing and bonus payments one of which is operated by the Company.
All schemes are These are recognised when there is a present legal or closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
In constructive obligation to make such payments as a result addition, defined benefit scheme obligations were added with of past events and a reliable estimate of the obligation can the acquisition of DEGI during 2008 and the Credit Suisse be made.
business acquired in Japan during 2009.
The Groups net obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately Share based payments for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit The Executive Share Option Scheme allows Group employees that members have earned in return for their service in prior to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present granted after 7 November 2002 is recognised as an employee value, and the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on is measured at grant date and spread over the period over high credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates which the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The fair value of the options granted is measured calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the using a trinomial lattice model, taking into account the projected unit credit method.
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The fair value of awards under the Groups Long Term Taxation Incentive Plan LTIP is recognised as an expense with a Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is initially deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except measured at the date of the award and is spread over the to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in period during which employees become unconditionally equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The fair value of LTIP awards is based Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit on the market price of the underlying shares at the date of for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted the award, taking into account the terms and conditions upon at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable which the award was made.
in respect of previous years.
Where the Company makes awards under the LTIP to Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable employees of its subsidiaries it recharges the cost of these on differences between the carrying amount of assets and awards to each subsidiary based on the fair value of the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding shares awarded.
basis used for tax purposes.
The Group awards deferred shares to employees as an Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability element of annual bonus awards.
These deferred shares are method and is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to expensed to the income statement over the vesting period of apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable Where the Company makes awards under the deferred share temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised scheme to employees of its subsidiaries it recharges the cost to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be of these awards to each subsidiary based on the cash value of available against which deductible temporary differences can the shares at the award date.
be utilised, except: Termination benefits in respect of taxable or deductible temporary Termination benefits are recognised as an expense and differences associated with investments in subsidiaries liability when the Group is committed to the termination and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of of employment before the normal retirement date.
the temporary differences can be controlled and it is A commitment to such termination benefits arises when the probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable Group has initiated detailed plans which cannot realistically future.
where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from Employee Benefits Trust the initial recognition of goodwill.
The Group has an Employee Benefits Trust EBT which owns where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from shares in the Company for the purposes of administering the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a the Groups LTIP and the deferred share element of annual transaction that: bonuses.
The EBT is consolidated into the Groups financial is not a business combination: and statements, with these shares deducted from equity.
Any consideration received for such shares is recognised within at the time of the transaction, affects neither retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income accounting profit nor loss.
statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
66 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Property, plant & equipment Intangible assets Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Goodwill depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised acquired, is capitalised in the balance sheet.
The carrying value when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits of goodwill at 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be is equivalent to the carrying value under UK GAAP and is measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised as an subject to annual impairment testing.
expense in the income statement as incurred.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off any accumulated impairment losses.
An impairment review is the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated carried out at least annually and any impairment is recognised useful lives as follows: immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently Heritable property: 50 years reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cashgenerating unit for the purpose of impairment testing.
Leasehold property: over the period of the lease Management contracts Property improvements: shorter of five years or the Intangible assets such as management contracts acquired period of the lease as part of a business combination, are capitalised where it is Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years probable that future economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the fair value of the assets Motor vehicles: four years can be measured reliably.
Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income Management contracts are recorded initially at fair value and statement.
then amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives.
The fair The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each value at the date of acquisition is calculated using discounted reporting date.
An assessment is made as to whether there cash flow methodology and represents the valuation of the is any indication that an asset may be impaired: if any such net residual income stream arising from the management indication exists and where the carrying value exceeds the contracts in place at the date of acquisition.
The contracts are estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down included in the balance sheet as an intangible asset.
The recoverable amount is the The useful lives of management contracts in respect of open greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any end funds are considered to be indefinite and are therefore impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The indefinite nature of these An item of property, plant & equipment is derecognised contracts is re-assessed on an annual basis to ensure that the upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits policy remains appropriate.
The Group tests for impairment are expected from its use.
Any gain or loss arising on of these assets annually or more frequently if there is an derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying value The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs of the asset is included in the Income Statement in the year to sell and value in use.
Management contracts in respect of the asset is derecognised.
segregated mandates are considered to have a finite life and are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated average contract term of between seven and ten years, with amortisation charged to the income statement.
The Group tests for impairment of these contracts annually or more frequently if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 67 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Other intangible assets - software Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss Purchased intangible assets have a finite life and are stated include investments held for trading purposes.
They are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment at fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
a straight line basis according to the useful economic life The following assets and liabilities are classified as financial of the intangible asset which, for software, is estimated at instruments at fair value through profit or loss: three years.
Current assets Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets Financial investments is capitalised only when it increases the future economic Stock of units and shares benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
Current liabilities All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
At each Investment contract liabilities reporting date, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that an asset in use may be impaired.
If any Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value such indication exists and the carrying values exceed the in the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down fair value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the time the cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
recognised in the income statement.
Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale Financial instruments financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value is reclassified from equity to profit and loss with subsequent plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through movements recognised in profit and loss.
profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
They are The following assets are designated as available for sale: categorised as described below.
Non-current assets The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded Other investments on organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on Included in this category are the Groups investments in the balance sheet date.
For investments where there is no private equity partnerships.
The fair value of these investments active market, the fair value is determined using valuation represents the Groups direct investments and entitlement techniques.
These techniques include recent arms length to carried interest distributions, both of which are measured market transactions, reference to the current market value of with reference to the International Private Equity and venture another financial instrument which is substantially the same: Capital Association valuation Guidelines.
discounted cashflow analysis and option pricing models.
Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
68 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at Investment contracts the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted its insurance subsidiaries, Aberdeen Asset Management Life for as compound financial instruments with a liability and and Pensions Limited L&P and Aberdeen Asset Management equity component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of Pooled Pension Limited PPL.
Management fees earned a compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability from these contracts are accounted for as described in the and equity components in proportion to the allocation of accounting policy for revenue.
The equity component of the convertible bonds L&P and PPL are consolidated in the Group financial is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the statements on a line-by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder present value of the future interest and principal payments, assets held by L&P and PPL and related policyholder liabilities discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value taken to liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest profit or loss.
expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Amounts received from and paid to investors under these contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, therefore not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to a financial investment is recognised on the date the Group investors due under these contracts are recognised in the commits to its purchase and derecognised on the date on income statement.
At the balance sheet date the value of which the Group commits to its sale.
these contracts is stated at an amount equal to the fair value Assets held for sale of the net assets held to match the contractual obligations.
Assets acquired with the intention to subsequently dispose of them by sale are classified as held for sale and measured at Investments in subsidiaries the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are to sell.
carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets are only considered to be classified as held for sale if: a the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale Impairment transaction rather than through continuing use: The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
The b management is committed to the sale within one year of Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of property, acquisition: plant & equipment and other assets, including fixed asset c the asset is available for immediate sale in its present investments, whenever events or changes in circumstances condition: indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
d the asset is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement in relation to its current fair value.
whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cashgenerating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The Cash and cash equivalents recoverable amount for any asset or cash-generating unit is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call to sell.
deposits and investments in money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating that are repayable on demand are included as a component of units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement any goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to of cash flows.
reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In Foreign currencies respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there The consolidated financial statements are presented in has been a change in the estimates used to determine the sterling, the Companys functional and presentation currency.
An impairment loss is reversed only to Each entity in the Group determines its own functional the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed currency and items included in the financial statements of the carrying amount that would have been determined, net each entity are measured in that functional currency.
of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the been recognised.
functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated Equity instruments in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling Preference share capital at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising The issued preference capital is classified as an element of are taken to the income statement.
equity as it is irredeemable, except at the Companys option, Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical and dividend payments are discretionary.
Dividends on cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional preference shares are recognised as distributions within equity.
currency using the exchange rate at the date of the Perpetual subordinated capital securities transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
NonThe 7.9% perpetual subordinated capital securities are monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign classified as an element of equity as the securities are currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the irredeemable, except at the Companys option, and coupon balance sheet date.
Where fair value movements in assets payments are discretionary.
Coupon payments, net of and liabilities are reflected in the income statement, the attributable tax, are recognised as distributions within equity.
corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value movements in assets and Repurchase of share capital liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the exchange movements are also recognised directly in equity.
amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated as a deduction from equity.
When these shares are sold or to sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by Hedge of net investment in foreign operation shareholders.
Dividends on certain own shares held by the Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a Employee Benefit Trusts are waived by the Trustees.
financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised directly in equity, in the Provisions foreign currency translation reserve, to the extent that the A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of such differences are recognised in profit or loss.
When the a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic hedged part of a net investment is disposed of, the associated benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect cumulative amount in equity is transferred to profit or loss as is material, provisions are determined by discounting the an adjustment to the profit or loss on disposal.
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Segment reporting and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The Groups primary reporting segments are its two operating Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due divisions, namely the fund management division and the to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Additional information No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the is provided by geographic segment whereby the results of the obligation cannot be made.
Group are disclosed according to the geographical location of its operating subsidiaries in the UK and Europe, Asia and the Americas.
70 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
