Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and the group and parent company financial statements in records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent accordance with applicable law and regulations.
company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and Company law requires the directors to prepare group and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply parent company financial statements for each financial with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the fraud and other irregularities.
parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are Under company law the directors must not approve the also responsible for preparing a Directors' report, Directors' financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give remuneration report and Corporate governance statement a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and that complies with that law and those regulations.
parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements, the directors are required to: integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the select suitable accounting policies and then apply preparation and dissemination of financial statements may them consistently: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59
