Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-seventh Annual General Meeting of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC will be held at The Marcliffe Hotel, North Deeside Road, Aberdeen, AB15 9YA at 12.00 noon on 21 January 2010 for the following purposes: For ease of reference, explanatory notes are attached to each resolution.
The formal resolutions are contained in bold text.
Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
1 To receive the directors report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2009 together with the auditors report thereon.
Each financial year, the directors are required to present to the meeting the audited accounts and the directors and auditors reports for the financial year.
2 To declare a final dividend of 3.2p per ordinary share of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary share.
The Board recommends that a final dividend of 3.2p per ordinary share is paid.
If approved by the shareholders, this dividend will be paid on 28 January 2010 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 5.00 pm on 11 December 2009.
3 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration.
The Companys auditors must offer themselves for reappointment at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are presented.
On the advice of the audit committee, the Board proposes that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor of the Company.
4 To re-elect as a director Sir Malcolm Rifkind who retires by rotation.
5 To re-elect as a director Mr D H Waters who retires by rotation.
6 To re-elect as a director Mr C G H Weaver who retires by rotation.
7 To elect as a director Mr S R v Troughton who was appointed during the year.
8 To elect as a director Mr G W Fusenig who was appointed after the year end.
9 To elect as a director Mr K Miyanaga who was appointed after the year end.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that, one third of the directors must retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and that no director may serve beyond three years without offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
In accordance with these provisions Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Mr Waters and Mr Weaver offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Troughton, Mr Fusenig and Mr Miyanaga offer themselves for election.
Biographies of each of these directors are contained on pages 34 to 36.
The chairman confirms that following the completion of the annual performance evaluation and appraisal exercise, the performance of these directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and that these directors demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Their re-election is therefore recommended.
10 To approve the Remuneration Report.
The directors are required to prepare an annual report detailing the Remuneration of the directors and the Companys remuneration policy and to seek shareholder approval to its contents.
The remuneration report is contained on pages 41 to 50.
11 That pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities: 11.1 otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 11.2 below, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 45,167,817 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any equity securities allotted under paragraph 11.2 below in excess of 33,714,718 : 11.2 comprising equity securities as defined by section 560 of the 2006 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 33,714,718 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any relevant securities allotted under paragraph 11.1 above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue as defined in Article 12.2.
4 a made by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be traded as nil paid rights for a period before payment for the securities is due: 134 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11.2.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings: and further 11.2.
2 to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Company as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and provided that unless previously renewed, varied or revoked these authorities shall expire on the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company save that, in each case, the Company may, before such expiry, make offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the relevant authority expires and the directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
These authorities are in substitution for all unexercised existing authorities under section 80 of the 1985 Act authorities but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
In this resolution, 'relevant securities' means shares in the Company or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company: a reference to the allotment of relevant securities includes the grant of a right: and a reference to the nominal amount of a relevant security which is a right to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company is to the nominal amount of the shares which may be allotted pursuant to that right.
This resolution deals with the Directors' authority to allot relevant securities in accordance with section 551 of the 2006 Act.
The first part of this resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last general meeting of the Company held on 17 April 2009 to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 45,167,817 which represents approximately one third of the present issued share capital of the Company plus an amount required to satisfy the exercise of warrants, options under the Aberdeen share option schemes and the conversion of the bonds 2014, assuming they are issued in full on or around 17 December 2009.
The second part of this resolution authorises the directors to allot a further one third of the present issued share capital of the Company in connection with a rights issue.
These limits are in line with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this additional authority but consider it desirable that they should have the flexibility to issue shares from time to time to enable the Company to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
However, in the event that the authority conferred by this Resolution 11 is exercised, and i the aggregate actual usage of both parts of the allotment authority exceeds one third of the issued share capital of the Company, and ii the amount raised in any rights issue is more than one third of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, in accordance with the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers, all Directors wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting, to be held in 2011.
The authority granted by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention of allotting any of the unissued share capital of the Company other than in connection with employee share schemes.
To consider the following resolutions 12 to 16 which will be proposed as special resolutions: 12 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 and pursuant to section 570 of the 2006 Act, the directors be and are generally empowered to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authorities granted by Resolution 11 as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 12.1 the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but, in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph 11.2 above, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue as defined in Article 12.2.
1 to the holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings: and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 135 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 12.1.
2 to holders of other equity securities in the capital of the Company, as required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and 12.2 in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph 11.1 of Resolution 11, to the allotment of equity securities otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 12.1 of this resolution up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,057,208: and unless previously renewed, varied or revoked this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may, before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
This power is in substitution for all unexercised existing powers under section 89 1 of the 1985 Act but without prejudice to any allotment of equity securities already made or agreed to be made pursuant to such powers.
This resolution seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last general meeting of the Company held on 17 April 2009 to issue equity securities of the Company for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis in limited circumstances.
The first part of this resolution seeks authority to do so in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue only, up to a maximum nominal amount of 67,429,436 which represents approximately 66.7% of the Company's issued ordinary shares excluding treasury shares as at 9 December 2009.
This is in line with the guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The second part of the resolution limits the authority to issues of ordinary shares and or sales of treasury shares representing an aggregate nominal value of 5,057,208, which in turn represents 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 9 December 2009.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
13 That, as permitted by section 307A of the 2006 Act any general meeting of the Company other than an Annual General Meeting of the Company shall be called by notice of not less than 14 clear days in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company provided that the authority of this Resolution shall expire a the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
The Shareholder Rights Directive was implemented in the UK in August 2009.
One of its requirements is that all general meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 clear days notice, and details of how to lodge your proxy vote electronically can be found on the front of the Form of Proxy.
14 1 That, the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and 2 That, the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
This resolution will approve the adoption of new Articles of Association which reflect certain changes implemented by the 2006 Act.
136 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 It is proposed in Resolution 14 to adopt new Articles of Association in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take account of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 and the implementation of the final parts of the 2006 Act.
Further details of these changes and the other principal changes to the existing Articles of Association are set out in the Appendix to the chairmans letter.
The new Articles of Association showing all the changes to the existing Articles of Association are available for inspection, as noted in the circular to shareholders dated 9 December accompanying this document.
There should therefore be no need to amend the articles further in order to ensure compliance with the 2006 Act.
15 That the Company is, pursuant to section 701 of the 2006 Act, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares provided that: 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 101,144,154 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be the higher of not more than i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which any such purchase is made and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current bid on the London Stock Exchange: 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011.
This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting and gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares as permitted by the 2006 Act.
The authority limits the number of ordinary shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 101,144,154, representing 10% of the issued share capital at 9 December 2009 and sets the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid.
This authority would only be exercised if the directors believed that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
At present, the directors have no current intention of utilising this authority.
If this authority was exercised, the ordinary shares repurchased would be cancelled or held in treasury.
There are 39,649 convertible preference share units which consist of a preference share and a warrant in Aberdeen Warrants Jersey Limited which if exercised would eventually result in a total of 42,179,787 ordinary shares in Aberdeen in issue.
There are also 22,351,200 ordinary shares under option and assuming the proposed issue of convertible bonds 2014 is issued in full on or around 17 December 2009, the bonds would be convertible into 50,000,000 ordinary shares in the Company.
There would therefore be a further 114,530,987 ordinary shares in the Company, if all rights to subscribe were exercised representing 11.3% of the current issued share capital but before the buyback authority is utilised and would represent 12.6% of the issued share capital if the full authority sought at the Annual General Meeting is utilised.
16 That in accordance with Sections 366 to 367 of the 2006 Act the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company at any time during the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011 be and is hereby authorised: 1 to make political donations to political parties, and or independent election candidates: 2 to make political donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 3 to incur political expenditure: Up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 and the amount authorised under each of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also be limited to such amount.
Words and expressions defined for the purposes of the 2006 Act shall have the same meaning in this resolution.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 137 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED All existing authorisations and approvals relating to political donations or expenditure under Sections 366 to 367 of the 2006 Act are hereby revoked without prejudice to any donation made or expenditure incurred prior to the date hereof pursuant to such authorisation approval.
It is the Companys policy not to make any donations to political parties nor incur political expenditure and the board does not intend to change that policy.
The 2006 Act required companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered parties and other political organisations totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve month period and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donations in this context was very wide and extended to bodies such as those concerned with policy review and law reform, with the representation of the business community or sections of it.
It could also have included special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment and campaigning charities.
By order of the board Scott E Massie Secretary 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG 9 December 2009 Notes: 1 Information about this meeting is available from the Companys investor relations webpage: www.
com investorrelations 2 As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, vote and speak at the Annual General Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend in person to represent you.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
3 A Form of Proxy and any power of attorney or other authority, if any, in order to be valid, must be sent to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR so as to arrive no later than 12.00 noon on 19 January 2010.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy will not prevent you attending the meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so.
4 Copies of all contracts of service and letters of appointment of directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
5 Only those members entered on the Companys Register of Members not later than 6.00pm on 19 January 2010 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the Companys Register not later than 6.00pm on the day two days prior to the recommended meet shall be entitled to attend, vote and speak at the meeting.
6 As a member, you have the right to ask questions at the meeting relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting.
138 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
8 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 January 2010 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID RA19 by 12.00 noon on 19 January 2010.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
9 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than as expressly stated.
10 As at 9 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,011,441,543 of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are also 39,649 convertible preference share units in existence which each consist of one preference share in Aberdeen which in certain limited circumstances has voting rights and one warrant to subscribe for preference shares in Aberdeen Warrants Jerseyco Limited Jerseyco.
Upon the exercise of a warrant, preference shares in Jerseyco will be issued which are then in accordance with the terms of the Jerseyco warrants immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares in Aberdeen.
The total number of ordinary shares in Aberdeen which could result after the exercise of warrants and subsequent share exchange are 42,179,787 ordinary shares with voting rights.
There are also 22,351,200 ordinary shares under option and assuming the proposed issue of convertible bonds 2014 is issued in full on or around 17 December 2009, the bonds would be convertible into 50,000,000 ordinary shares.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 9 December 2009 is 1,011,441,543 ordinary shares in aggregate with voting rights.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the 2006 Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 139
