NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 22.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND ASSOCIATED RISKS continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that an issuer or counterparty will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the Company.
Failure of any relevant counterparty to perform its obligations in respect of these items may lead to a financial loss.
The Company is exposed to material credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents and debtors.
Credit risk is mitigated by the Companys policy to transact only with leading commercial and investment banks.
Currently all cash is placed with Northern Trust Guernsey Limited NTGL.
NTGL is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Northern Trust Corporation TNTC.
TNTC is publicly traded and a constituent of the S&P 500.
TNTC has a credit rating of AA from Standard & Poors and Aa3 from Moodys.
The credit risk associated with debtors is limited to the unrealised gains on open forward foreign currency contracts, as detailed above and other receivables.
It is the opinion of the Board of Directors that the carrying amounts of these financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure as at the balance sheet date.
Credit risk analysis The Companys maximum credit exposure is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised as at the balance sheet date, as summarised below: 31.3.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The fair value of the Companys financial assets and liabilities approximates their carrying amounts as at the balance sheet date.
The Companys objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
There are no externally-imposed capital requirements on the Company.
The Company has the ability to borrow the lower of 20.0 per cent.
of its Net Asset Value or 40.0 million for short-term or temporary purposes as is necessary for the settlement of transactions, to facilitate redemption where applicable or to meet ongoing expenses.
The Directors have put in place a credit facility for this purpose.
The Company does not have any structural gearing.
The Company is indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee funds are themselves geared.
Cash if any will be held in G8 currency-denominated accounts.
The gearing ratio below is calculated as total liabilities divided by total equity.
2008 Total assets 283,166,395 280,750,879 Less: total liabilities 8,200,588 5,152,033 Total equity 274,965,807 275,598,846 Gearing ratio 2.98% 1.87% The Board considers this gearing ratio to be adequate since total liabilities above refer only to other payables.
47 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 23.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The Company may purchase its own Shares in any class in issue in the market with a view to addressing any imbalance between the market supply of and demand for Shares and to assist in maintaining a narrow discount to Net Asset Value at which the Shares may be trading.
Any such purchases would only be made at prices which represent a discount to the prevailing Net Asset Value per Share at that date so as to enhance the Net Asset Value per Share for the remaining Shareholders.
The Company may purchase up to a maximum 14.99 per cent.
of its own Shares following the admission of the Shares to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities.
Further to such authority, the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is 0.01p and the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to 105.0 per cent.
of the average of the market values for a Share taken from the Daily Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time.
Shareholders may liquidate their investments in the Company half-yearly, on 31st March and or 30th September of each year the Redemption Day, subject to certain limitations and the Directors exercising their discretion to operate the redemption facility.
Shareholders may request the redemption of part of their holdings of Shares for cash at the prevailing Net Assets Value by giving notice to the Company not less than 65 days prior to the Redemption Date.
The Directors will meet regularly to consider the operation of the redemption facility in light of prevailing market conditions, Shareholders sentiments and any legal constraints.
Redemption on any Redemption Day will be restricted to up to 25.0 per cent.
of the Shares in issue or such lesser amount as the Directors, in their discretion, may determine, with any excess redemption requests being scaled back pro rata.
Shareholders should note that the operation of this Redemption Facility is at the sole discretion of the Directors and they should place no reliance on the Directors exercising such discretion.
Accordingly, Shareholders should have no expectations that the Directors will exercise their discretion on these Redemption Days.
