GLOSSARY OF INVESTMENT STRATEGIES Macro M These funds take directional positions based on their views of macroeconomic and market trends.
They primarily use futures, forwards and options to implement trades in currency, bond or equity markets.
Macro funds have historically delivered a strong and un-correlated performance, but with considerable volatility: they can be very attractive in a portfolio context as they tend to thrive at times of market stress.
Equity Long Bias ELB These managers seek to extract returns from both long and short positions in individual equities.
However, they will have a structurally higher allocation to long positions than to shorts and will primarily incorporate short positions as a means of dampening volatility, rather than as a source of alpha.
The Manager expects Equity Long Bias managers to show an average beta to the MSCI World Equity Index USD in excess of 0.5 over a market cycle.
Equity Hedged These managers seek to extract returns from both long and short positions EHH in individual High Volatility EHH equities.
The Manager does not expect these funds to show an average beta to the MSCI World Equity index USD of more than 0.5 over a market cycle and they should deliver the majority of their returns through stock-specic or sector-level risk.
Over a market cycle, the Manager expects these funds to exhibit at least two-thirds of the volatility of the MSCI World Equity Index USD.
Equity Hedged These managers seek to extract returns from both long and short positions in individual equities.
High Volatility EHL The Manager does not expect these funds to show an average beta to the MSCI World Equity Index USD of more than 0.5 over a market cycle and they should deliver the majority of their returns through stock-specic or sector-level risk.
Over a market cycle, the Manager expects these funds to exhibit less than two-thirds of the volatility of the MSCI World Equity Index USD.
Short Bias SB A few managers run hedge funds with a consistent short bias, primarily in equities but also in corporate bonds.
They vary the degree of gross and net exposure according to their perception of individual opportunities.
Unsurprisingly, these funds deliver performance which tends to be negatively correlated to markets, Equity Long Bias funds and to a number of other fundamentally-driven hedge fund strategies.
They often perform well at times of high equity and bond market volatility and are attractive in a portfolio context as a form of value added insurance.
Specialist Credit SC These funds generate their returns through long and short positions in corporate debt.
Hedging instruments can include credit default swaps, equities and equity options.
Managers often specialise in certain areas of the credit spectrum, ranging from Distressed and High Yield bonds to Investment Grade issues.
Event Driven ED The event driven strategy takes advantage of either announced corporate actions or other predened events that provide an estimated rate of return over a dened time period.
Examples of such events include mergers, spinoffs and index rebalances.
Often there is a spread between two or more involved securities or one security and a specified cash level.
The principal risk is that the event does not come to fruition or that the timeline is underestimated.
Generally, only moderate leverage is employed in this strategy.
50 GLOSSARY OF INVESTMENT STRATEGIES continued Volatility Trading VT Managers in this strategy seek to generate returns by exploiting inefficiencies in the pricing of implied and realised volatility in a variety of asset classes.
Managers can be sub-classied into those who capture cheap optionality embedded within convertible bonds Convertible Bond Arbitrage and those who take stand-alone and relative positions in options of both individual securities and in indices Options Arbitrage.
Fixed Income FI Funds within this strategy trade interest rate risk on a relative value and or directional basis.
Typically they express their views through G10 government bond markets, interest swaps and other OTC and exchange traded derivative contracts.
As government bonds are low volatility instruments, considerable nominal leverage is often applied.
Multiple Strategy MS This group of hedge funds engages in a combination of the aforementioned strategies, adding value by dynamically allocating to in-house specialist teams in the areas which they think are likely to be most rewarding.
These funds have further attractions in that they only charge a performance fee on the net returns achieved across the various strategies in aggregate.
qxp 27 7 09 6:33 pm Page 1 Absolute Return Trust Limited ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31st March 2009
