NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31st March 2009 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered to be material in relation to the Companys Financial Statements: Basis of accounting The Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published statements not yet effective At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations Comprehensive revision on applying the acquisition method Effective date 1st July 2009 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Effective date 1st July 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Effective date 1st October 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners Effective date 1st July 2009 IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Effective date 1st July 2009 IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Effective date 1st July 2009 IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Amended Reclassication of Financial Assets Effective date 1st July 2009 IFRS 7 Amended Improving disclosures about Financial Instruments Effective date 1st October 2009 IAS 39 Eligible hedged items Effective date 1st July 2009 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments Effective date 1st January 2009 Amendments to IFRS 7 were issued by the IASB in March 2009 and become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009 with early application permitted.
The amendment to IFRS 7 requires fair value measurements to be disclosed by the source of inputs, using a three-level hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3.
In addition the amendment revises the specified minimum liquidity risk disclosures including amongst others: the contractual maturity of non derivative and derivative financial liabilities, and a description of how this is managed.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards in future periods will have no material financial impact on the Financial Statements of the Company.
Presentation of information In order to better reect the activities of an investment company and in accordance with the guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented within the Income Statement.
27 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities, other than those shown at fair value through profit or loss, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss investments Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Company commits to purchase or sell the investment.
Investments purchased are initially recorded at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
Gains and losses on investments sold are shown in Note 4 and recognised in capital in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
The investments are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis which is consistent with the Companys documented investment strategies.
The information regarding the Companys portfolio is also provided on that basis to the Board.
Other Financial Instruments For other financial instruments, including other receivables, other payables and unrealised gains or losses on open forward foreign currency contracts, the carrying amounts as shown in the Balance Sheet approximate to fair values due to the short term nature of these financial instruments.
Forward foreign currency and currency option contracts Forward foreign currency and currency option contracts are derivative contracts and as such are recognised at fair value on the date on which they are entered into and subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Fair value is determined by rates in active currency markets.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet, if and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Fair value Investments of the Company consist of shares or units in hedge funds and these are valued at the latest estimate of net asset value from the administrator of the respective hedge fund i. e. most recent price is the best estimate of the amount for which holdings could have been disposed of at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets are shown as net gains or losses on financial assets through profit or loss in Note 4 and recognised in capital in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset is derecognised when: a the rights to receive cash ows from the asset have expired, b the Company retains the right to receive cash ows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass through arrangement: or c the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled.
Restatement of comparatives During the current year some comparatives have been restated to conform with the current year presentation.
28 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys Financial Statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of income, expenses, assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
However, uncertainties about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Although some of the Companys underlying investments have imposed restrictions on redemptions the Directors believe it remains appropriate to estimate their fair values based on net asset values as reported by the Administrators of the relevant investments.
The Directors believe that such net asset values represent fair value because subscriptions and redemptions in the underlying investments occur at these prices at the balance sheet date.
Income All income is accounted for on an accruals basis and is recognised in the Income Statement.
Interest income for all debt instruments is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
Expenses Expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses incurred on the acquisition of investments at fair value through profit or loss are charged to the Income Statement in capital.
All other expenses are charged to the Income Statement in revenue.
Share issue expenses Share issue expenses of 412,672 31st March 2008: 2,326,886 incurred as a result of the C Shares issue as described in Note 15 have been fully written off against the Share Premium Account in the current year.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, overdrafts and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are shortterm, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignicant changes in value.
Overdrafts are shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Capital reserves Gains and losses recorded on the realisation of investments and realised exchange differences of a capital nature are transferred to the realised capital reserve.
Unrealised gains and losses recorded on the revaluation of investments held at a period end and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature are transferred to the unrealised capital reserve.
Translation of foreign currency Items included in the Companys Financial Statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates the functional currency.
The majority of the Companys Shares are denominated in Sterling a small number are denominated in Euros and its operating expenses are incurred in Sterling.
While the Companys investments are denominated in US Dollars all exposure to these currencies is hedged by forward foreign currency and currency option contracts.
Accordingly the Directors regard Sterling as the functional currency.
The Company has also adopted Sterling as its presentation currency.
The assets and liabilities of the Company that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the balance sheet date.
The Statement of Changes in Equity is translated into Sterling for aggregation purposes using an average rate of exchange for the period, with the exception of share capital and the share premium account which are translated at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction and the unrealised gains on investments which are translated at the rates ruling as at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on aggregation are taken to equity and subsequently transferred to net assets attributable to Redeemable Participating Preference Shares.
Translation differences on financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss are reported as part of net gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss in the Income Statement in capital.
