Financial statements continued Estimation techniques used in calculation of Under some of the co-insurance and reinsurance Highlights claims provisions: contracts under which motor premiums are shared 04 Chairmans statement Estimation techniques are used in the calculation or ceded, profi t commission may be earned on a of the provisions for claims outstanding, which particular year of account, which is usually subject to 06 Chief Executives statement represents a projection of the ultimate cost of settling performance criteria such as loss ratios and expense claims that have occurred prior to the balance sheet ratios.
The commission is dependent on the ultimate 10 Business review date and remain unsettled at the balance sheet date.
outcome of any year, with income being recognised based on loss and expense ratios used in the 32 Governance The key area where these techniques are used preparation of the fi financial statements.
51 Financial statements relates to the ultimate cost of reported claims.
51 Consolidated income A secondary area relates to the emergence of Revenue from Price Comparison and Gladiator statement claims that occurred prior to the balance sheet Commission from these activities is credited to 52 Consolidated statement date, but had not been reported at that date.
income on the sale of the underlying insurance policy.
of comprehensive income 53 Consolidated statement of fi financial position The estimates of the ultimate cost of reported claims Investment income 54 Consolidated cash fl ow are based on the setting of claim provisions on a Investment income from fi financial assets comprises statement case-by-case basis, for all but the simplest interest income and net gains both realised and 55 Consolidated statement of claims.
unrealised on fi financial assets classifi ed as fair value of changes in equity through profi t and loss or held to maturity deposits.
56 Notes to the fi financial statements The sum of these provisions are compared with 78 Parent Company projected ultimate costs using a variety of different b Foreign currency translation balance sheet projection techniques including incurred and paid Functional and presentation currency 79 Notes to the chain ladder and an average cost of claim approach Items included in the fi financial statements of each Parent Company to allow an actuarial assessment of their likely of the Groups entities are measured using the fi financial statements 81 Five year review accuracy.
They include allowance for unreported currency of the primary economic environment in 82 Directors and advisers claims.
which the entity operates the functional currency.
Further Information The consolidated fi financial statements are presented The most signifi cant sensitivity in the use of the in millions of pounds sterling, which is the Groups projection techniques arises from any future step presentation currency.
change in claims costs, which would cause future claim cost infl ation to deviate from historic trends.
Transactions and balances This is most likely to arise from a change in the Foreign currency transactions are translated into regulatory or judicial regime that leads to an increase the functional currency using the exchange rates in awards or legal costs for bodily injury claims that is prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign signifi cantly above or below the historical trend.
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, and from the The claims provisions are subject to independent translation at year end exchange rates of monetary review by the Groups actuarial advisors.
For further assets and liabilities denominated in foreign detail on objectives, policies and procedures for currencies are recognised in the income statement.
managing insurance risk, refer to note 18 of the fi financial statements.
Translation differences on monetary items, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Future changes in claims reserves also impact Translation differences on non-monetary items are profi t commission income, as the recognition of included in the foreign exchange reserve in equity.
this income is dependent on the loss ratio booked in the fi financial statements, and cash receivable is Translation of fi financial statements of dependent on actuarial projections of ultimate foreign operations loss ratios.
The fi financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currency is not pounds sterling 3.
Signifi cant accounting policies are translated into the Group presentation currency a Revenue recognition sterling as follows: Premiums, ancillary income and profi t commission Premiums relating to insurance contracts are i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet recognised as revenue proportionally over the period presented are translated at the closing rate of cover.
at the date of that balance sheet ii Income and expenses for each income Income earned on the sale of ancillary products and statement are translated at average exchange income from policies paid by instalments is credited rates unless this average is not a reasonable to the income statement over the period matching approximation of the cumulative effect of the Groups obligations to provide services.
Where the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, the Group has no remaining contractual obligations, in which case income and expenses are the income is recognised immediately.
An allowance translated at the date of the transaction is made for expected cancellations where the iii All resulting exchange differences are customer may be entitled to a refund of ancillary recognised as a separate component amounts charged.
of equity On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular operation is recognised in the income statement.
Admiral Group plc 58 Annual Report 2009 c Insurance contracts and reinsurance assets d Intangible assets Premium Goodwill The proportion of premium receivable on in-force All business combinations are accounted for using policies relating to unexpired risks is reported in the purchase method.
Goodwill has been recognised insurance contract liabilities and reinsurance assets in acquisitions of subsidiaries, and represents the as the unearned premium provision gross and difference between the cost of the acquisition and reinsurers share respectively.
the fair value of the net identifi able assets acquired.
Claims The classifi cation and accounting treatment of Claims and claims handling expenses are charged acquisitions occurring before 1January2004 as incurred, based on the estimated direct and have not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups indirect costs of settling all liabilities arising on events opening IFRS balance sheet at 1January2004 occurring up to the balance sheet date.
due to the exemption available in IFRS 1 First time adoption.
In respect of acquisitions prior to The provision for claims outstanding comprises 1January2004, goodwill is included at the transition provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims date on the basis of its deemed cost, which incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date, represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance which was tested for impairment at the transition recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
On transition, amortisation of goodwill has ceased as required by IAS 38.
Whilst the Directors consider that the gross provisions for claims and the related reinsurance Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated recoveries are fairly stated on the basis of the impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash information currently available to them, the ultimate generating units CGUs according to business liability will vary as a result of subsequent information segment and is reviewed annually for impairment.
and events and may result in signifi cant adjustments to the amounts provided.
The Goodwill held on the balance sheet at 31December2009 is allocated solely to the Adjustments to the amounts of claims provisions UK Car Insurance segment.
established in prior years are refl ected in the income statement for the period in which the adjustments Impairment of goodwill are made and disclosed separately if material.
The annual impairment review involves comparing The methods used, and the estimates made, are the carrying amount to the estimated recoverable reviewed regularly.
amount by allocating the goodwill to CGUs and recognising an impairment loss if the recoverable Provision for unexpired risks is made where amount is lower.
Impairment losses are recognised necessary for the estimated amount required over through the income statement and are not and above unearned premiums to meet future claims subsequently reversed.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net Co-insurance realisable value and the value in use of the CGU.
The Group has entered into certain co-insurance contracts under which insurance risks are shared The value in use calculations use cash fl ow on a proportional basis, with the co-insurer taking projections based on fi financial budgets approved a specifi c percentage of premium written and being by management covering a three-year period.
responsible for the same proportion of each claim.
Cash fl ows beyond this period are considered, but As the contractual liability is several and not joint, not included in the calculation.
The discount rate neither the premiums nor claims relating to the applied to the cash fl ow projections in the value co-insurance are included in the income statement.
in use calculations is 8.9% 2008: 9.2%, based Under the terms of these agreements the co-insurers on the Groups weighted average cost of capital reimburse the Group for the same proportionate source: Bloomberg.
share of the costs of acquiring and administering the business.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those regarding growth rates and Reinsurance assets expected changes in pricing and expenses incurred Contracts entered into by the Group with reinsurers during the period.
Management estimates growth under which the Group is compensated for losses rates and changes in pricing based on past practices on the insurance contracts issued by the Group are and expected future changes in the market.
classifi ed as reinsurance contracts.
A contract is only accounted for as an insurance or reinsurance Deferred acquisition costs contract where there is signifi cant insurance risk Acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect transfer between the insured and the insurer.
costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent The benefi ts to which the Group is entitled under the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that these contracts are held as reinsurance assets.
corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the balance sheet date.
This balance is held The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for as an intangible asset.
It is amortised over the impairment on a regular basis, and in detail every six term of the contract as premium is earned.
If there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, then the carrying value will be written down to its recoverable amount.
Admiral Group plc 59 Annual Report 2009 Financial statements continued Software The Groups deposits with credit institutions are Highlights Purchased software is recognised as an intangible classifi ed as held to maturity investments which 04 Chairmans statement asset and amortised over its expected useful life is consistent with the intention for which they generally between two and four years.
06 Chief Executives statement value is reviewed every six months for evidence of impairment, with the value being written down Subsequent measurement 10 Business review if any impairment exists.
Impairment may be reversed Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, if conditions subsequently improve.
with any resultant gain or loss recognised through 32 Governance the income statement.
51 Financial statements e Property, plant and equipment and 51 Consolidated income depreciation Deposits with fi xed maturities, classifi ed as held statement All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost to maturity investments are measured at amortised 52 Consolidated statement less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is cost using the effective interest method.
Movements of comprehensive income calculated using the straight-line method to write off in the amortised cost are recognised through the 53 Consolidated statement of fi financial position the cost less residual values of the assets over their income statement, as are any impairment losses.
54 Consolidated cash fl ow useful economic lives.
These useful economic lives statement are as follows: Receivables are stated at their amortised cost less 55 Consolidated statement impairment using the effective interest method.
of changes in equity Motor vehicles 4 years Impairment losses are recognised through the 56 Notes to the fi financial statements Fixtures, fi ttings and equipment 4 years income statement.
78 Parent Company Computer equipment 2 to 4 years balance sheet Improvements to short leasehold properties 4 years.
Impairment of fi financial assets 79 Notes to the The Group assesses at each balance sheet date Parent Company Impairment of property, plant and equipment whether any fi financial assets or groups of fi financial fi financial statements 81 Five year review In the case of property plant and equipment, carrying assets are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired 82 Directors and advisers values are reviewed at each balance sheet date where there is evidence that one or more events Further Information to determine whether there are any indications of occurring after the initial recognition of the asset, may impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash fl ows recoverable amount is estimated and compared to arising from the asset.
The carrying value is the higher of the net realisable value and the assets value in Objective evidence of impairment may include default use.
Impairment losses are recognised through the on cash fl ows due from the asset and reported income statement.
fi financial diffi culty of the issuer or counterparty.
f Leased assets Derecognition of fi financial assets The rental costs relating to assets held under A fi financial asset is derecognised when the rights operating leases are charged to the income to receive cashfl ows from that asset have expired statement on a straight-line basis over the life or when the Group transfers the asset and all the of the lease.
attaching substantial risks and rewards relating to the asset, to a third party.
Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership h Cash and cash equivalents are classed as fi finance leases.
Assets acquired Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, under fi finance leases are included in property, plant deposits held at call with banks, and other shortand equipment at fair value on acquisition and are term deposits with original maturities of three months depreciated in the same manner as equivalent or less.
Finance lease and hire purchase obligations are included in creditors, and the fi finance i Share capital costs are spread over the periods of the agreements Shares are classifi ed as equity when there is based on the net amount outstanding.
no obligation to transfer cash or other assets.
g Financial assets investments and receivables j Employee benefi ts Initial recognition Pensions Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are The Group contributes to a number of defi ned classifi ed as fi financial assets at fair value through contribution personal pension plans for its profi t or loss, loans and receivables or held to employees.
The contributions payable to these maturity investments.
The Group has not held schemes are charged in the accounting period to any derivative instruments in the years ending which they relate.
Employee share schemes At initial recognition assets are recognised at fair The Group operates a number of equity settled value and classifi ed according to the purpose for compensation schemes for its employees.
For which they were acquired: schemes commencing 1January2004 and after, the fair value of the employee services received The Groups investments in money market liquidity in exchange for the grant of free shares under funds are designated as fi financial assets at fair value the schemes is recognised as an expense, with a through profi t or loss FVTPL at inception.
This designation is permitted under IAS 39, as the The total charge expensed over the vesting period investments in money market funds are managed as a is determined by reference to the fair value of the group of assets and internal performance evaluation free shares granted as determined at the grant of this group is conducted on a fair value basis.
date excluding the impact of non-market vesting Admiral Group plc 60 Annual Report 2009
