Financial statements continued Highlights 04 Chairmans statement Notes to the fi financial statements 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 32 Governance 51 Financial statements 51 Consolidated income statement 52 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 53 Consolidated statement of fi financial position 54 Consolidated cash fl ow statement 1.
General information and basis of preparation IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment of a foreign 55 Consolidated statement General information operation is effective for periods beginning on or of changes in equity Admiral Group plc is a Company incorporated in after 1 July 2009 and the Group has elected 56 Notes to the fi financial England and Wales.
Its registered offi ce is at Capital not to adopt the Amendment in advance of the statements Tower, Greyfriars Road, Cardiff CF10 3AZ and its effective date.
As the Group does not hedge its net 78 Parent Company balance sheet shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
investment in foreign operations, this interpretation 79 Notes to the is not expected to have a material impact on the Parent Company The fi financial statements comprise the results Groups fi financial statements.
fi financial statements and balances of the Company and its subsidiaries 81 Five year review together referred to as the Group for the year IFRICs 12, 15, 17 and 18, and the amendment to 82 Directors and advisers Further Information ended 31 December 2009 and comparative fi gures IAS 32 are effective for periods beginning on or for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The fi financial after 30 March 2009, 1 January 2010, 1 November statements of the Companys subsidiaries are 2009, 1 November 2009 and 1 February 2010 consolidated in the Group fi financial statements.
None of these interpretations have been Company controls 100% of the voting share capital applied during the current accounting period, and of all its principal subsidiaries.
The Parent Company on adoption will not have a material impact on the fi financial statements present information about Groups fi financial statements.
the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
In accordance with International There are a number of standards, amendments Accounting Standard IAS 24, transactions or to standards and interpretations that were issued balances between Group companies that have by 31December 2009 but have either yet to be been eliminated on consolidation are not reported endorsed by the EU, or were endorsed shortly after as related party transactions.
These are as follows: The consolidated fi financial statements have Improvements to IFRSs 2009 been prepared and approved by the Directors in Amendments to IFRS 2 Group cash-settled accordance with International Financial Reporting share-based payment transactions Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional exemptions EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent for fi first-time adopters Company fi financial statements in accordance with Revised IAS 24 Related party disclosures UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice GAAP.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRIC 19 Extinguishing fi financial liabilities Adoption of new and revised standards with equity instruments The Group has applied all adopted IFRS and Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments interpretations endorsed by the EU at 31 December of a minimum funding requirement 2009, including all amendments to extant standards that are not effective until later accounting periods, IFRS 9, Financial Instruments is the only new except for those listed below: standard, all the others being improvements, amendments to standards, interpretations or IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements revisions of current standards.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate This standard was issued in November 2009 by IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment the IASB and focuses on the classifi cation and of a foreign operation measurement of fi financial instruments.
Under the IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets new standard only two possible classifi cations arise, to owners rather than the four existing classifi cations currently IFRIC 18 Transfer of assets from customers available under IAS 39, and will result in all fi financial Amendments to IAS 32 Classifi cation of assets being valued at amortised cost or fair value rights issues through profi t or loss.
Financial liabilities are excluded from the scope of this standard.
Admiral Group plc 56 Annual Report 2009
