Based on the Groups current fi financial assets, this Basis of preparation standard is not expected to have a material impact The accounts have been prepared on a going on the Groups fi financial statements in future periods.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board have reviewed the In addition, it is not anticipated that any of the Groups projections for the next 12 months and other improvements, amendments to standards, beyond, including cash fl ow forecasts and regulatory interpretations or revisions of current standards capital surpluses.
above will have a material impact on the Groups fi financial statements in future periods.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfi ed themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these The following IFRS have been adopted and applied fi financial statements on a going concern basis.
by the Group for the fi first time in these fi financial statements: The accounting policies set out in note 3 to the fi financial statements have, unless otherwise stated, Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of fi financial been applied consistently to all periods presented in statements: a revised presentation these Group fi financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment: vesting conditions and cancellations The fi financial statements are prepared on the Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1 Puttable historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of fi financial instruments and obligations arising fi financial assets classifi ed as at fair value through on liquidation profi t or loss.
Amendments to IFRS1 and IAS 27 Cost of investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
or associate Control exists when the Group has the power, Amendments to IFRS 7 Improving disclosures directly or indirectly, to govern the fi financial and about fi financial instruments operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefi ts Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded from its activities.
In assessing control, potential derivatives voting rights that are currently exercisable or IAS 23 Borrowing costs convertible are taken into account.
The fi financial IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes statements of subsidiaries are included in the Improvements to IFRSs 2008 consolidated fi financial statements from the date that Revised IFRS 3 Business combinations control commences until the date that control ceases.
Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate fi financial statements The preparation of fi financial statements in conformity Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: with adopted IFRS requires management to make recognition and measurement: eligible hedged items judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect Revised IFRS 1 First time adoption of IFRS the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Following adoption of IAS 1 Presentation of fi financial The estimates and associated assumptions are statements: a revised presentation, the Group based on historical experience and various other now presents all income and expenses in two factors that are believed to be reasonable under the separate statements, namely the Consolidated circumstances, the results of which form the basis Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of making the judgements about carrying values of of Comprehensive Income.
It also presents a assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity from other sources.
The estimates and underlying as a primary statement for the fi first time and has assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
renamed the Consolidated Balance Sheet the Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
There in the year in which the estimate is reviewed if this are no changes to the recognition, measurement or revision affects only that year, or in the year of the disclosure of transactions as a result of the adoption revision and future years if the revision affects both of this standard.
The requirements of IFRS 7, Financial instruments, 2.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates disclosures are met through note 17 to the fi financial Judgements: statements.
This includes the enhanced disclosures In applying the Groups accounting policies as about fair value measurements required under the described in note 3, management has primarily amendment to IFRS 7 that has been adopted for the applied judgement in the classifi cation of the Groups fi first time.
contracts with reinsurers as quota share reinsurance contracts.
A contract is required to transfer None of the other standards or interpretations signifi cant insurance risk in order to be classifi ed as adopted for the fi first time have had a material impact such.
Management reviews all terms and conditions on the consolidated fi financial results or position of the of the contract, and if necessary obtains the opinion Group for the year ended 31 December 2009. of an independent expert at the negotiation stage in order to be able to make these judgements.
Admiral Group plc 57 Annual Report 2009
