Financial assets and liabilities The Groups fi financial instruments can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Financial assets: m m Investments held at fair value 237.7 310.8 Held to maturity deposits with credit institutions 183.5 100.0 Receivables amounts owed by policyholders 209.7 176.1 Total fi financial assets per consolidated balance sheet 630.9 586.9 Trade and other receivables 32.7 25.5 Cash and cash equivalents 211.8 144.3 875.4 756.7 Financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 306.8 270.1 All receivables from policyholders are due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
All investments held at fair value are invested in AAA-rated money market liquidity funds.
These funds target a short-term cash return with capital security and low volatility and continue to achieve these goals.
The amortised cost carrying amount of held to maturity deposits and receivables is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing fi financial assets and liabilities The Groups activities expose it primarily to the signifi cant fi financial risks of credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
The Board of Directors has delegated the task of supervising risk management and internal control to the Risk Management Committee RMC.
There is also an Investment Committee that makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups investment strategy.
There are several key elements to the risk management environment throughout the Group.
These are detailed in full in the Corporate Governance statement.
Specifi c considerations for the risks arising from fi financial assets and liabilities are detailed below.
Interest rate risk The Group considers interest rate risk to be the risk that unfavourable movements in interest rates could adversely impact on the capital values of fi financial assets and liabilities.
This relates primarily to investments held at fair value.
The Group has a policy of primarily investing in AAA-rated money market liquidity funds, which in turn invest in a mixture of very short dated fi xed and variable rate securities, such as cash deposits, certifi cates of deposits, fl oating rate notes and other commercial paper.
The funds are not permitted to have an average maturity greater than 60 days and hence are not subject to large movements in yield and value resulting from changes in market interest rates as longer duration fi xed income portfolios can experience.
Returns are likely to closely track the LIBID benchmark and hence while the Groups investment return will vary according to market interest rates, the capital value of these investment funds will not be impacted by rate movements.
The interest rate risk arising is therefore considered to be minimal.
The Group also holds a number of fi xed rate, longer-term deposits with UK credit institutions rated A or above.
These are classifi ed as held to maturity and valued at amortised cost.
Therefore neither the capital value of the deposits, or the interest return will be impacted by fl uctuations in interest rates.
No sensitivity analysis to interest rates has been presented on the grounds of materiality.
Credit risk The Group defi fines credit risk as the risk of loss if another party fails to perform its obligations or fails to perform them in a timely fashion.
The key areas of exposure to credit risk for the Group result through its reinsurance programme, investments, bank deposits and policyholder receivables.
Economic and fi financial market conditions have led the Directors to consider counterparty exposure more frequently and in signifi cant detail.
The Directors consider that the policies and procedures in place to manage credit exposure continue to be appropriate for the Groups risk appetite, and no material credit losses have been experienced by the Group.
Admiral Gr Admiral Group plc oup plc 69 69 Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 Financial statements continued There are no specifi c concentrations of credit risk with respect to investment counterparties due to the Highlights structure of the liquidity funds which invest in a wide range of very short duration, high quality securities.
Cash 04 Chairmans statement balances and deposits are placed only with credit institutions with a fi financial strength rating of A or above.
06 Chief Executives statement To mitigate the risk arising from exposure to reinsurers, the Group only conducts business with companies of specifi ed fi financial strength ratings.
In addition, most contracts are operated on a funds withheld basis, which 10 Business review substantially reduces credit risk.
32 Governance The other principal form of credit risk is in respect of amounts due from policyholders due to the potential 51 Financial statements for default by instalment payers.
The impact of this is mitigated by the large customer base and low average 51 Consolidated income level of balance recoverable.
There is also mitigation by the operation of numerous high and low level controls statement in this area, including payment on policy acceptance as opposed to inception and automated cancellation 52 Consolidated statement procedures for policies in default.
of comprehensive income 53 Consolidated statement of fi financial position The fair value of receivables from policyholders represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The group 54 Consolidated cash fl ow does not use credit derivatives or similar instruments to mitigate exposure.
The amount of bad debt expense statement relating to policyholder debt charged to the income statement in 2008 and 2009 is insignifi cant.
55 Consolidated statement of changes in equity There were no signifi cant fi financial assets that were past due at the close of either 2009 or 2008.
56 Notes to the fi financial statements 78 Parent Company The Groups credit risk exposure to assets with external ratings is as follows: balance sheet 79 Notes to the 31 December 31 December Parent Company 2009 2008 fi financial statements Rating m m 81 Five year review Financial institutions Money market funds AAA 237.7 310.8 82 Directors and advisers Financial institutions Credit institutions AA 85.0 115.6 Further Information Financial institutions Credit institutions A 310.3 128.7 Reinsurers A 96.0 64.5 Foreign exchange risks Foreign exchange risks arise from unfavourable movements in foreign exchange rates that could adversely impact the valuation of overseas assets.
The Group may be exposed to foreign exchange risk through its expanding operations in Europe.
Although the relative size of the European operations means that the risks are relatively small, increasingly volatile foreign exchange rates result in larger potential gains or losses.
Assets held to fund insurance liabilities are held in the currency of the liabilities, however surplus assets held as regulatory capital in foreign currencies remain exposed.
The Group hedges certain items of foreseen expenditure using forward contracts and other similar instruments.
None were outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is defi ned as the risk that the Group does not have suffi cient, available, fi financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
The Group has traditionally been strongly cash generative due to the large proportion of profi t arising from non-underwriting activity.
Further, as noted above, a signifi cant portion of insurance funds are invested in money market liquidity funds with same day liquidity features, meaning that the vast majority of the Group cash and investments are immediately available.
The current uncertainty in credit markets is not likely to impact this.
A breakdown of the Groups fi financial liabilities trade and other payables is shown in note 20.
In terms of the maturity profi le of these liabilities, all amounts may potentially mature within three to six months of the balance sheet date except for a minority of fi finance lease liabilities which will expire after 12 months.
Refer to note 21 for further detail.
In practice, the Groups Directors expect actual cash fl ows to be consistent with this maturity profi le except for amounts owed to co-insurers and reinsurers.
Of the total amounts owed to co-insurers and reinsurers of 154.4 million 2008: 147.9 million, 91.3 million 2007: 77.5 million is held under funds withheld arrangements and therefore not expected to be settled within 12 months.
All fi financial assets will mature within 12 months.
The Groups Directors believe that the cash fl ows arising from these assets will be consistent with this profi le.
Liquidity risk is not, therefore considered to be signifi cant.
Admiral Gr Admiral Group plc oup plc 70 70 Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009
