Fair value The carrying value of all of the Groups fi financial assets equate to fair value.
For money market funds, cash at bank and deposits, the fair value approximates to the book value due to their short maturity.
Objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital Refer to Business review for objectives, policies and procedures for managing capital and external capital requirements.
Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities A Objectives, policies and procedures for the management of insurance risk The Group is involved in issuing motor insurance contracts that transfer risk from policyholders to the Group and its underwriting partners.
Insurance risk primarily involves uncertainty over the occurrence, amount or timing of claims arising on insurance contracts issued.
The key reserving risk is that the frequency and or value of the claims arising exceeds expectation and the value of insurance liabilities established.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of insurance risk, although as mentioned in note 17, it has delegated the task of supervising risk management to the Risk Management Committee RMC.
The Board implements certain policies in order to mitigate and control the level of insurance risk accepted by the Group.
These include underwriting partnership arrangements, pricing policies and claims management and administration policies.
A number of the key elements of these policies and procedures are detailed below: i Co-insurance and reinsurance As noted in the Business review, the Group cedes a signifi cant amount of the motor insurance business written to external underwriters.
In 2009, 50% of the UK risk was shared under a co-insurance contract, under which the primary risk is borne by the co-insurer.
A further 22.5% was ceded under quota share reinsurance contracts.
As well as these proportional arrangements, an excess of loss reinsurance programme is also purchased to protect the Group against very large individual claims and catastrophe losses.
ii Data-driven pricing The Groups underwriting philosophy is focused on a sophisticated data-driven approach to pricing and underwriting and on exploiting the competitive advantages direct insurers enjoy over traditional insurers through: Collating and analysing more comprehensive data from customers Tight control over the pricing guidelines in order to target profi table business sectors Fast and fl exible responsiveness to data analysis and market trends The Group is committed to establishing premium rates that appropriately price the underwriting risk and exposure.
Rates are set utilising a larger than average number of underwriting criteria.
The Directors believe that there is a strong link between the increase in depth of data that the Group has been able to collate over time and the lower than average historic reported loss ratios enjoyed by the Group.
iii Effective claims management The Group adopts various claims management strategies designed to ensure that claims are paid at an appropriate level and to minimise the expenses associated with claims management.
These include: An effective, computerised workfl ow system which along with the appropriate level of resources employed helps reduce the scope for error and avoids signifi cant backlogs Use of an outbound telephone team to contact third parties aiming to minimise the potential claims costs and to ensure that more third parties utilise the Group approved repairers Use of sophisticated and innovative methods to check for fraudulent claims Concentration of insurance risk The Directors do not believe there are signifi cant concentrations of insurance risk.
This is because, although the Group only writes one line of insurance business, the risks are spread across a large number of people and a wide regional base.
Admiral Gr Admiral Group plc oup plc 71 71 Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 Financial statements continued B Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions Highlights The following table sets out the impact on equity at 31December2009 that would result from 04 Chairmans statement a 1% worsening in the UK loss ratios used for each underwriting year for which material amounts remain outstanding.
06 Chief Executives statement Underwriting year 10 Business review 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Loss ratio 66.0% 74.5% 71.5% 79.0% 84.0% 32 Governance Impact of 1% change m 2.0 2.2 3.7 3.5 1.3 51 Financial statements 51 Consolidated income The impact is stated net of reinsurance and includes the change in net insurance claims along with the statement associated profi t commission movements that result from changes in loss ratios.
The fi gures are stated net of 52 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income tax at the current rate.
53 Consolidated statement of fi financial position C Analysis of recognised amounts 54 Consolidated cash fl ow statement 31 December 31 December 55 Consolidated statement 2009 2008 of changes in equity m m 56 Notes to the fi financial Gross: statements Claims outstanding 323.5 282.3 78 Parent Company balance sheet Unearned premium provision 209.4 157.3 79 Notes to the Total gross insurance liabilities 532.9 439.6 Parent Company fi financial statements 81 Five year review Recoverable from reinsurers: 82 Directors and advisers Claims outstanding 114.1 103.8 Further Information Unearned premium provision 98.8 66.8 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 212.9 170.6 Net: Claims outstanding 209.4 178.5 Unearned premium provision 110.6 90.5 Total insurance liabilities net 320.0 269.0 D Analysis of UK claims incurred The following tables illustrate the development of net UK Car Insurance claims incurred for the past fi five fi financial periods, including the impact of re-estimation of claims provisions at the end of each fi financial year.
The fi first table shows actual net claims incurred, and the second shows the development of UK loss ratios.
Figures are shown net of reinsurance and are on an underwriting year basis.
