Notes to the Parent Company fi financial statements Parent Company accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the fi financial statements: 1.
Basis of preparation The Parent Company fi financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
In considering the appropriateness of this assumption, the Board have reviewed the Companys projections for the next 12months and beyond, including cash fl ow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
As a result of this review the Directors have satisfi ed themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these fi financial statements on a going concern basis.
In these fi financial statements the following new standards, abstracts and amendments to standards have been adopted for the fi first time: Amendment to FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures Amendment to FRS 20 Vesting conditions and cancellations Improvements to FRSs The adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on either the current year or comparative fi gures.
The amendments to the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 mirror those of the international standard IFRS 7, the requirements of which are met in note 17 to the Group fi financial statements.
The disclosures focus on investments held at fair value through profi t or loss, which are not held in the Parent Company.
The amendment to FRS 20, vesting conditions and cancellations amends the defi nition of vesting conditions, to include only service and performance conditions.
This clarifi cation has not impacted the share scheme accounting in the Parent Company The Admiral Group plc Company fi financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the provisions of Section 296 to the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 2006, the profi t and loss account of the Parent Company is not presented.
Under FRS 1 Cash fl ow statements the Company is exempt from having to present a cash fl ow statement on the grounds that its cash fl ows are included in the Groups published consolidated fi financial statements.
The Parent Company audit fee is not disclosed in these accounts as it is disclosed in the Consolidated fi financial statements for Admiral Group plc, which precede them at note 10.
Refer to note 27 of the Consolidated fi financial statements for disclosure of related party transactions.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profi t for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suffi cient taxable profi ts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Admiral Gr Admiral Group plc oup plc 79 79 Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009
