Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information Shareholder Information 129 Presentation of non-GAAP measures BG Group gives certain additional information in a non-statutory Joint ventures and associates format in order to provide readers with an increased insight into the Under IFRS, the results from jointly controlled entities joint ventures underlying performance of the business.
The measures the Group and associates, accounted for under the equity method, are required uses are explained below.
to be presented net of finance costs and tax on the face of the income statement.
Given the relevance of these businesses within BG Group, Business Performance the results of joint ventures and associates are presented before Business Performance excludes disposals, certain re-measurements interest and tax, and after tax.
This approach provides additional and impairments see below, and is presented in this way as exclusion information on the source of BG Groups operating profits.
For a of these items provides a clear and consistent presentation of the reconciliation between operating profit and earnings, including and underlying operating performance of the Groups ongoing business.
excluding the results of joint ventures and associates, see note 2, page 77.
BG Group uses commodity instruments to manage price exposures associated with its marketing and optimisation activity in the UK Exchange rates and prices and USA.
This activity enables the Group to take advantage of BG Group also discloses certain information, as indicated, at constant commodity price movements.
It is considered more appropriate to US$ UK exchange rates and upstream prices.
The presentation of include both unrealised and realised gains and losses arising from results in this manner is intended to provide additional information the mark-to-market of derivatives associated with this activity in to explain further the underlying trends in the business.
disclosure re-calculates the current year profit on the basis that the US$ UK exchange rate and the upstream commodity prices were Disposals, certain re-measurements and impairments the same as in the previous year, providing a comparable base in BG Groups commercial arrangements for marketing gas include the respect of these two factors.
use of long-term gas sales contracts.
While the activity surrounding these contracts involves the physical delivery of gas, certain UK gas Net borrowings funds and return on average capital employed sales contracts are classied as derivatives under the rules of BG Group provides an analysis of the amounts included within International Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: net borrowings funds as this is an important liquidity measure Recognition and Measurement, issued by the IASB, and are required for the Group.
to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Unrealised gains and losses on these contracts reect the comparison between Return on average capital employed ROACE represents profit before current market gas prices and the actual prices to be realised under tax excluding disposals, re-measurements and impairments plus net the gas sales contracts and are disclosed separately as disposals, interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of average capital re-measurements and impairments.
Further information on these measures is provided on page 128.
BG Group also uses commodity instruments to manage certain price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of its physical gas and LNG commitments.
These instruments are also required to be measured at fair value at the balance sheet date under IAS 39.
However, IAS 39 does not allow the matching of these fair values to the economically hedged value of the related commodity, resulting in unrealised movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
These movements in fair value, together with any unrealised gains and losses associated with discontinued hedge accounting relationships that continue to represent economic hedges, are disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
BG Group also uses financial instruments, including derivatives, to manage foreign exchange and interest rate exposure.
These instruments are required to be recognised at fair value or amortised cost on the balance sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these instruments have been designated either as hedges of foreign exchange movements associated with the Groups net investments in foreign operations, or as hedges of interest rate risk.
Where these instruments cannot be designated as hedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements in fair value are recorded in the income statement and disclosed separately as disposals, re-measurements and impairments.
Realised gains and losses relating to the instruments referred to above are included in Business Performance.
This presentation best reects the underlying performance of the business since it distinguishes between the temporary timing differences associated with re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and actual realised gains and losses.
BG Group has also separately identied profits and losses associated with the disposal of non-current assets and impairments of non-current assets as they require separate disclosure in order to provide a clearer understanding of the results for the period.
For a reconciliation between the overall results and Business Performance and details of disposals, re-measurements and impairments, see note 2, page 77 and note 5, page 89.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
