66 Financial Statements Principal accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been EXCLUDING DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards All property, plant and equipment is carried at depreciated historical cost.
IFRS, and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Additions represent new, or replacements of specific components of, IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the EU.
In addition, the Financial property, plant and equipment.
Statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and equipment Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The including government grants are included in creditors as deferred income Financial Statements have been prepared primarily using historical cost and credited to the income statement over the life of the assets.
Finance principles except that, as disclosed in the accounting policies below, certain costs associated with borrowings used to finance major capital projects are items, including derivatives, are measured at fair value.
capitalised up to the point at which the asset is ready for its intended use.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS requires DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION management to make judgements and assumptions that affect the Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other property, plant and equipment, reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies except exploration and production assets, is depreciated on a straight-line at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported revenues and basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost less residual value of expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these individual assets over their estimated useful economic lives.
BG Group believes that the accounting policies associated with residual values are reassessed annually.
The depreciation periods for the exploration expenditure, depreciation, decommissioning, impairments, principal categories of assets are as follows: financial instruments including commodity contracts, and revenue recognition are the policies where changes in estimates and assumptions Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years could have a significant impact on the Financial Statements.
Further Mains, services and meters up to 60 years discussion on these policies, estimates and judgements can be found in Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years the Financial review, pages 24 to 29: note 5, page 87: note 10, page 90: and Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years note 18, page 95.
The presentation adopted by the Group for its results under IFRS is Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method explained in note 2, page 77. based on the proved developed reserves of those fields, except that a basis BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION of total proved reserves is used for acquired interests and for facilities.
The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Exploration and production assets associated with unconventional Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the results of its activities, including coal seam and shale gas, are depreciated from share of jointly controlled entities and associates using the equity method of accounting.
Consistent accounting policies have been used to prepare commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method based on proved plus probable reserves, together the consolidated Financial Statements.
with the estimated future development expenditure required to develop Most of BG Groups exploration and production activity is conducted those reserves.
The Group accounts for its own share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these jointly Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are recognised at cost less amortisation.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of controlled operations using the proportional consolidation method.
The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated Changes in depreciation and amortisation estimates are dealt with from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
For the Company Financial Statements only, investments in subsidiary prospectively.
undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
IMPAIRMENT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS Non-current assets subject to depreciation or amortisation are reviewed for PRESENTATION OF RESULTS impairments whenever events or other changes in circumstances indicate BG Group presents its results in the income statement to separately identify the contribution of disposals, certain re-measurements and that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
impairments in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent Any impairment of non-current assets excluding financial assets is presentation of the underlying operating performance of the Groups calculated as the difference between the carrying values of cash generating ongoing business, see note 2, page 77 and note 9, page 89. units including associated goodwill and their recoverable amount, being SEGMENT REPORTING the higher of the estimated value in use or fair value less costs to sell at the date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the net BG Groups reportable segments are operating segments that engage in different business activities for the Group.
The Groups Board and present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
management review the results of operating segments.
ASSETS HELD FOR SALE BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL When an asset or disposal groups carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, it In the event of a business combination, fair values are attributed to the net is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair assets acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the net assets acquired, is value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current capitalised and subject to an impairment review at least annually, or more assets classified as held for sale.
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill INVENTORIES may be impaired.
Goodwill is treated as an asset of the relevant entity to Inventories, including inventories of gas, liquefied natural gas LNG and which it relates, including foreign entities.
Accordingly, it is retranslated into oil held for sale in the ordinary course of business, are stated at weighted Pounds Sterling at the closing rate of exchange at each balance sheet date.
average historical cost less provision for deterioration and obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 67 REVENUE RECOGNITION CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Revenue associated with exploration and production sales of crude oil and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits with a maturity petroleum products including natural gas is recorded when title passes to of three months or less, and other short-term highly liquid investments the customer.
Revenue from the production of natural gas and oil in which that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
BG Group has an interest with other producers is recognised based on the DEFERRED TAX Groups working interest and the terms of the relevant production sharing Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on contracts entitlement method.
Differences between production sold and temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities the Groups share of production are not significant.
and their carrying amounts in the Financial Statements.
Currently enacted Sales of LNG and associated products are recognised when title passes to or substantively enacted tax rates are used in the determination of deferred the customer.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over the period of the income tax.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is relevant contract.
probable that future taxable profit will be available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Revenue from gas transmission and distribution activities is recognised in the same period in which the related volumes are delivered to the customer.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, For power stations that are contracted based on availability, revenue is except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can recognised based on the availability status of the power station to produce be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not at a given point in time.
Where power output is sold under pool or other reverse in the foreseeable future.
contractual arrangements and where revenue is linked to the costs of actual production, revenue is recognised when the output is delivered.
LEASES Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
plant and equipment at the lower of fair value and the present value of EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE the minimum lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
BG Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect exploration expenditure.
Exploration expenditure, including licence of future periods, are determined at the inception of the lease and included acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible asset when incurred within borrowings.
The interest element of the rental obligation is and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical exploration allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the costs, is expensed.
A review of each licence or field is carried out, at least constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves have been discovered.
When proved reserves are determined, the relevant expenditure, including BG Group has certain long-term arrangements under which it has licence acquisition costs, is transferred to property, plant and equipment acquired all of the capacity of certain property, plant and equipment.
In and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Expenditure deemed to circumstances where it is considered that the Group has the majority be unsuccessful is written-off to the income statement.
Exploration of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant, the arrangement is expenditure is assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances considered to contain a finance lease.
suggest that its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of impairment testing, exploration and production assets Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a may be aggregated into appropriate cash generating units based on straight-line basis over the lease term.
considerations including geographical location, the use of common FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS facilities and marketing arrangements.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently DECOMMISSIONING COSTS re-measured at fair value.
Where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred, provision is Derivative financial instruments utilised by BG Groups treasury operations made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, cross currency interest at the end of the producing lives of assets.
rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward exchange contracts.
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line with the life of the with the Groups risk management policies.
Gains and losses arising from underlying producing asset, otherwise the costs are charged to the income the re-measurement of these financial instruments are either recognised statement.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in in the income statement or deferred in equity depending on the type of the income statement within finance costs.
Any changes to estimated costs hedging relationship.
When a hedging instrument is sold or expires, any or discount rates are dealt with prospectively.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains in equity FOREIGN CURRENCIES until the hedged transaction is recognised in the income statement or is On consolidation, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies no longer expected to occur.
are translated into Pounds Sterling the functional currency of the Movements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments not Company and the presentation currency of the Group at closing rates included in hedging relationships are recognised in the income statement.
Trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, jointly controlled entities and associates are translated into Pounds Sterling at Loans held by the Group are initially measured at fair value and subsequently average rates of exchange.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of carried at amortised cost, except where they form the underlying transaction the opening net assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
in an effective fair value hedge relationship when the carrying value is Any differences arising from 1 January 2003, the date of transition to IFRS, adjusted to reflect fair value movements associated with the hedged risks.
are presented as a separate component of equity.
Such adjustments are reported in the income statement.
Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities arising in individual Other financial instruments such as receivable balances are measured companies are taken to the income statement, with the exception of at amortised cost less impairments.
Liabilities associated with financial exchange differences on monetary items that form part of a net guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair value and re-measured investment in a foreign operation.
These differences are taken to reserves at each balance sheet date.
until the related net investment is disposed of.
All other exchange movements are dealt with through the income statement.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 68 Financial Statements Principal accounting policies continued COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS Within the ordinary course of business BG Group routinely enters into sale and purchase transactions for commodities.
The majority of these transactions take the form of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery of the commodity in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements.
Such contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Certain long-term gas sales contracts operating in the UK gas market have terms within the contract that constitute written options, and accordingly they fall within the scope of IAS 39.
In addition, commodity instruments are used to manage certain price exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of physical gas and LNG commitments.
These contracts are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair value recognised in the income statement, see Presentation of results on page 66: note 2, page 77: and note 9, page 89.
The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in commodity prices.
Such contracts include physical and net settled forwards, futures, swaps and options.
Where these derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges of underlying commodity price exposures, certain gains and losses attributable to these instruments are deferred in equity and recognised in the income statement when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises or is no longer expected to occur.
All other commodity contracts within the scope of IAS 39 are measured at fair value with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
Gas contracts and related derivative instruments associated with the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party gas are presented on a net basis within other operating income.
PENSIONS The amount recognised on the balance sheet in respect of liabilities for defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans represents the present value of the obligations offset by the fair value of plan assets and excluding actuarial gains and losses not recognised.
The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is charged to the income statement over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
Current service costs are reflected in operating profit and financing costs are reflected in finance costs in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses that exceed the greater of 10% of plan assets or plan obligations are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees participating in the plan and are reflected in operating profit.
Contributions made to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement when payable.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the related share options or share allocations.
The cost is based on the fair value of the options or shares allocated and the number of awards expected to vest.
The fair value of each option or share is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the number actually vesting.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE All research and advertising expenditure is written-off as incurred.
Development expenditure is written-off as incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Where the recognition criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives.
