134 Shareholder Information Notice of eleventh Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc The eleventh Annual General Meeting AGM or Meeting of BG Group plc the Company will be held in the Princess Suite of the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, Madejski Stadium, Reading, Berkshire RG2 0FL on Wednesday, 12 May 2010 at 11.30 am for the transaction of the business set out below.
This notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Companys AGM.
Resolutions 1 to 11 below are ordinary resolutions that will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 12 to 15 are special resolutions that will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out below.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries in such period shall not exceed 50 000.
Resolution 1 For the purposes of this Resolution, political donations, political To receive the Accounts and Reports of the Directors and the auditors for the year ended 31 December 2009. organisations, political parties and political expenditure shall have the meanings given to them in Sections 363 to 365 of the Act.
Resolution 2 Resolution 11 To approve the Remuneration report as set out on pages 50 to 61 of the BG Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Act to exercise all the 31 December 2009. powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant Resolution 3 rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 Company Rights : of 6.73 pence per ordinary share payable on 21 May 2010 to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the Company at the i. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 115 641 305: and close of business on 16 April 2010. ii.
up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 112 536 365 provided that i they are equity securities within the meaning of Section Resolution 4 To elect Mark Seligman as a Director of the Company.
560 1 of the Act, and ii they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such Resolution 5 record date as the Directors may determine where the equity To re-elect Peter Backhouse, who retires by rotation, as a Director securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary of the Company.
shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be Resolution 6 To re-elect Lord Sharman, who retires by rotation, as a Director of held by them on any such record date and to other holders of equity securities entitled to participate therein, subject to such exclusions the Company.
or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or Resolution 7 expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or To re-elect Philippe Varin, who retires by rotation, as a Director of legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas the Company.
territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary Resolution 8 receipts or any other matter, To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next accounts are laid before the Company.
annual general meeting of the Company, save that the Directors shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such Resolution 9 authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights To authorise the Audit Committee to approve the remuneration of the to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to auditors.
allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement Resolution 10 as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities That, in accordance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies previously granted to the Directors to allot shares and grant Rights be Act 2006 the Act, the Company, and all companies which are and are hereby revoked.
subsidiaries of the Company during the period when this resolution has effect, be and are hereby authorised to: SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS i. make political donations to political parties or independent election Resolution 12 candidates up to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the ii.
make political donations to political organisations other than meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash either pursuant to the political parties up to a total aggregate amount of 15 000: and authority conferred by Resolution 11 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any iii.
incur political expenditure up to a total aggregate amount of 20 000, such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this i. the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph ii Resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company, provided that, in any event, the total of Resolution 11 by way of a rights issue only in favour of the holders aggregate amount of all political donations and political expenditure of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 135 the Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate iii.
the maximum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as quotations for an ordinary share in the Company as derived from may be practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares held the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem is contracted to be purchased: necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional iv.
the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of the next annual general meeting of the Company unless previously any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting: and stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and v. the Company may make a contract to purchase its ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such ii.
the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i of this authority, which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly Resolution 12 to any person or persons of equity securities up to an after the expiry of such authority, and may purchase its ordinary aggregate nominal amount of 16 880 454. shares in pursuance of any such contract.
and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 14 Resolution 11 above, save that the Directors shall be entitled to make That a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to Resolution 15 any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had That with effect from the conclusion of the AGM, the Articles of not expired.
Association contained in the document produced to the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identication be adopted Resolution 13 and approved as the new Articles of Association of the Company in That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the Articles of Association of market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of the Company in effect immediately prior to that time.
ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine, Registered Ofce: By order of the Board provided that: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Keith Hubber Reading Company Secretary i. the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be Berkshire RG6 1PT acquired is 337 609 096 representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 10 March 2010: Registered in England and Wales 10 March 2010 ii.
the minimum price that may be paid for any such ordinary share No.
3690065 is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: EXPLANATORY NOTES of the Company at the close of business on 16 April 2010.
American Depositary Shares ADS holders will be entitled to receive the US Dollar This document is important.
If you are in any doubt about its content, equivalent of 0.3365 per ADS on 28 May 2010.
An interim dividend for you should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
the year ended 31 December 2009 of 5.62 pence per ordinary share was paid on 11 September 2009.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser Election of Director Resolution 4 or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to The Companys Articles of Association require any Director newly whom the sale or transfer was effected so that they can be passed on appointed by the Board to retire at the first annual general meeting to the person who now owns the shares.
Mark Seligman was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2009.
Biographical Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 details for Mark Seligman are given on page 39.
The Board unanimously The Directors are required to lay before the Meeting the Accounts recommends his election.
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2009, the Directors Report, the Remuneration report and the Auditors report Re-election of Directors Resolutions 5 to7 on the Accounts.
Biographical details of the Directors proposed for re-election, namely Peter Backhouse, Lord Sharman and Philippe Varin, are shown on pages Remuneration report Resolution 2 38 and 39 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors are normally UK-listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to shareholders subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
However, by at the annual general meeting seeking approval of the Remuneration the date of the Meeting, Peter Backhouse and Lord Sharman will have report.
The vote is advisory in nature, in that payments made or served on the Board for more than nine years since their first elections promised to Directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld and therefore, in accordance with Provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, in the event that the resolution is not passed.
they will be subject to annual re-election from this year.
In reviewing Declaration of a dividend Resolution 3 the recommendations of the Nominations Committee concerning A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 6.73 pence these re-elections, the Board has concluded that Peter Backhouse, per ordinary share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend Lord Sharman and Philippe Varin are independent in character and can be paid only after it has been declared by the shareholders at a judgement, notwithstanding that Peter Backhouse and Lord Sharman general meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders declare this dividend will have served on the Board for more than nine years since their first by passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the final dividend will be paid elections by the date of the meeting.
In addition, and following the on 21 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register annual evaluation exercise conducted during the year, the Board BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 136 Shareholder Information Notice of eleventh Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued considers that each of the Directors proposed for re-election continues ABI guidelines also state that the ABI will regard as routine requests to make an effective and valuable contribution and demonstrates to authorise the allotment of a further 1 3 of a companys issued share commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously capital provided that such additional headroom is only applied to fully recommends their re-election.
pre-emptive rights issues and that the authorisation is valid for one year only.
The Board has resolved that the Company should follow the Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment of all ABIs revised guidelines.
Directors of the Company are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered ofce of the Company and at the Accordingly, the Board considers it appropriate that the Directors ofces of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London be granted authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the EC2A 2HS on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 228 177 670 excluded and will also be available for inspection at the place of the representing approximately 2 3 of the Companys issued ordinary share AGM from 9.00 am on the day of the Meeting until its conclusion.
capital excluding treasury shares, together with the number of shares required to satisfy the options outstanding under the Companys Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors Resolutions 8 and 9 employee share plans as at 10 March 2010 the latest practicable date The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting prior to publication of this Notice, of which 1 125 363 654 shares at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold ofce until representing approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued ordinary the next such meeting.
Following the recommendation of the Audit share capital excluding treasury shares can only be allotted pursuant Committee, the Directors propose that  LLP to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
The authority will last until the be re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Resolution 9 proposes conclusion of the next annual general meeting in 2011. that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority other than pursuant to employee share plans.
If the Directors resolve Political donations Resolution 10 to use the additional headroom in respect of a fully pre-emptive rights Resolution 10 is designed to deal with rules on political donations and issue, all Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM that follows expenditure contained in Part 14 of the Act Sections 362 to 379.
Under that rights issue, in accordance with the ABIs guidelines.
Section 378 of the Act, a company may not make donations to an EU political party, or other EU political organisation, or to an independent As at the date of this Notice, the Company is holding 222 138 569 shares election candidate in the EU, of more than 5 000 in total, or incur any in treasury representing 6.58% of the Companys issued ordinary share EU political expenditure, without first obtaining shareholder approval.
It is the Companys policy not to make contributions to political parties.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 12 There is no intention to change that policy.
However, what constitutes Resolution 12 will empower the Directors to allot ordinary shares in a political donation, a political party, a political organisation or the capital of the Company, pursuant to the authority granted under political expenditure under the Act is not clear, as the legislation is Resolution 11 above, for cash, and to sell shares held in treasury, without capable of wide interpretation and may have the effect of covering applying the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain circumstances.
In a number of normal business activities that would not be thought to line with the ABIs revised guidelines described above, they will be able be political donations in the usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of to allot: inadvertently contravening the Act, the Board considers that it would be prudent to follow the procedure specified in the Act to obtain i. in connection with an open offer or other offer to existing shareholder approval for the Company and its subsidiaries to make shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings up to political donations or incur political expenditure in the forthcoming 1 125 363 654 shares representing 1 3 of the Companys issued year until the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the ordinary share capital or in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights Company in 2011.
This authority will not be used to make any political issue only up to 2 250 727 308 shares representing 2 3 of the donations as that expression would normally be understood.
Companys issued ordinary share capital : and Authority to allot shares Resolution 11 ii.
up to a maximum nominal value of 16 880 454, representing Resolution 11 deals with the Directors authority to allot shares.
approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 10 March 2010 the latest practicable date prior At the last annual general meeting of the Company held on to publication of this Notice otherwise than in connection with 18 May 2009, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary an offer to existing shareholders.
shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 116 481 140 representing approximately 1 3 of the As with Resolution 11, the terms of Resolution 12 are broadly the same Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as last years resolution, but the Resolution has been updated to reect at 3 March 2009, together with shares outstanding under BG Groups that it is being passed pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act option schemes.
This authority expires at the conclusion of this years rather than Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
In addition, the Directors were given authority to allot a further The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
1 3 of the Companys issued share capital up to a maximum of 111 329 254 representing approximately a further 1 3 of the Companys The Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
This authority Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative was not utilised by the Board during the year.
usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
These principles provide that companies should not issue for cash shares representing Resolution 11 will, if passed, renew this authority to allot shares on in excess of 7.5% of the companys issued share capital in any rolling broadly the same terms as last years resolution, but the Resolution three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior has been updated to reect that authority is being given under consultation with shareholders.
Section 551 of the Act rather than Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and to reect a change in the language used in the Act.
Authority to make market purchases of own ordinary shares Resolution 13 In 2008, the Association of British Insurers ABI revised its guidelines In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company on directors authority to allot shares to state that ABI members will to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 13 seeks authority continue to permit, and treat as routine, a request for authorisation to from shareholders to do so.
The Resolution species the maximum allot new shares in an amount of up to 1 3 of the existing issued share number of shares that may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued capital of a company, together with the number of shares required to allot shares in respect of deferred consideration or options.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 137 ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares and the maximum Amendment of existing Articles of Association Resolution 15 It is proposed in Resolution 15 to adopt new Articles of Association and the minimum prices at which they may be bought.
the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of the that they are to be held as treasury shares, be cancelled and the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Directive which came into number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held in force by way of the Regulations in August 2009. treasury will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are An explanation of the main changes between the Current Articles and the New Articles is set out below.
Other changes which are of a minor, subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
technical or clarifying nature or merely reect changes made by the Shares are held in treasury in accordance with Section 724 of the Act or the Regulations, or conform the language of the New Articles Act and may be used to satisfy awards under the Companys share with that used in the model articles for public companies produced schemes pursuant to Section 727 of the Act.
No dividends are paid by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills have also been on and no voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Any treasury shares included in the New Articles.
The Companys Current Articles and the sold by the Company will count towards the number of shares that, New Articles are available for inspection during normal business if Resolution 12 is passed, may be issued without offering them first hours at the registered office of the Company and at the offices to existing shareholders.
of Herbert Smith LLP, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2HS on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays As the existing shareholder approval to purchase shares expires at excluded and will also be available for inspection at the place of the the conclusion of the AGM, purchases after that date are subject to AGM from 9.00 am on the day of the Meeting until its conclusion.
renewed shareholder approval at the AGM.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Chairmans casting vote Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors will use the authority to The New Articles remove the provision giving the Chairman a casting purchase shares only after careful consideration, taking into account vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted market conditions, other investment opportunities, appropriate under the Act.
gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the Notice of general meetings Article 53 effects on earnings per share and the benefit for shareholders.
The provisions in the New Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene At 10 March 2010, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary general meetings are in line with the relevant provisions of the Act shares outstanding was 31 049 399.
This represents 0.92% of the issued as amended by the Regulations.
The Regulations amended the Act to share capital at that date excluding treasury shares.
If the Company require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings bought back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to unless the Company has passed a special resolution reducing the the existing authority as well as the authority being sought by the notice period to not less than 14 clear days this resolution is proposed passing of this Resolution and cancelled them, then the total number as Resolution 14 and the Company offers members an electronic of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at that date voting facility.
would represent 1.15% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares as reduced following those repurchases.
At 10 March 2010, there Notices and postal strikes Article 53.7 were no warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding.
Article 53.7 of the New Articles is the article covering service of notice in the event of a postal strike: it has been amended to allow the Company Notice of general meetings other than annual general meetings in such circumstances, to serve notices only on those shareholders who Resolution 14 receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Resolution 14 is a resolution to allow the Company to hold general Company also puts an advertisement in two national newspapers and meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice.
sends a conrmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available Before the introduction of the Companies Shareholders Rights again within seven days of the meeting.
Regulations 2009 the Regulations on 3 August 2009, the minimum Participation in meetings at different places and by electronic means notice period permitted by the Act for general meetings, other than Article 57 annual general meetings, was 14 clear days.
One of the amendments Amendments made to the Act by the Regulations specically provide made to the Act by the Regulations was to increase the minimum for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The New notice period for general meetings of listed companies to 21 clear days, Articles include amendments to provide greater scope for shareholders but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 clear to participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not present days, other than for annual general meetings, provided two conditions in person at the principal place where the meeting is held.
The first condition is that a company offers facilities for all amendments allow for shareholders to participate not only by shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the attendance at multiple meeting locations, but also by other electronic company offers a facility accessible to all shareholders to appoint a means of participation.
proxy by means of a website.
Please refer to the note entitled Appointing a proxy on page 138 for details on the Companys Adjournment for a lack of quorum arrangements for electronic proxy appointment.
The second condition Under the Act, as amended by the Regulations, general meetings is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after reduction in the minimum notice period from 21 clear days to 14 clear the original meeting.
The New Articles reect this requirement.
The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 14 as a special Voting rights Article 69 resolution to approve 14 clear days as the minimum period of notice The Regulations clarify the various powers of proxies and representatives for all general meetings of the Company other than annual general of corporate shareholders in respect of resolutions taken on a show of meetings.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next hands.
The new position is that a proxy has one vote on a show of annual general meeting.
hands in all cases including where one member has appointed The Directors will consider on a case by case basis whether the use of multiple proxies except when he is appointed by multiple members the exibility offered by the shorter notice period is appropriate, taking who instruct him to vote in different ways, in which case he has one into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the vote for and one vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate meeting is time sensitive.
shareholder appoints representatives to attend meetings on its behalf, each duly appointed representative has one vote on a show of hands.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 138 Shareholder Information Notice of eleventh Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued The New Articles contain provisions which clarify these rights and also Resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast the votes for which clarify how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected at the end hands should apply to discretionary powers.
Once the results have been veried by the Companys Registrar, they will be notied to the UK Listing Authority and Voting record date Article 69.2 published on the Companys website.
Under the Act, as amended by the Regulations, the Company must determine the right of shareholders to vote at a general meeting by Appointing a proxy reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
The New Articles reect that no account should be A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the taken of any part of a day that is not a working day in this regard.
AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy Receipt of termination of proxy corporate representative authority need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the AGM Articles 76.2 and 78.3 to represent the relevant shareholder.
A proxy form which may be used Article 76.2 of the New Articles provides that the termination of to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies a proxys authority should be in writing as this is required by the this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should Regulations.
A similar change has been made to Article 78.3 with have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact Equiniti.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy proxy form, proxies may Validity of votes Article 79.2 be appointed electronically as set out below.
Following the implementation of the Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy must be returned by shareholders.
The New Articles contain a provision stating that the one of the following methods: Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate in hard copy form by post, by courier, or by hand to Equiniti, representative has voted in accordance with instructions given to him Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UT: and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has not voted in accordance with his instructions.
co. uk by following the on-screen instructions and using the numbers printed on your proxy card: or Newspaper advertisements Article 138 Section 308 of the Act states that notice of a general meeting must in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic be given in hard copy form or by means of a website.
The provisions proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set of part 2 of Schedule 5 of the Act make it clear that a newspaper out on page 139. advertisement would not satisfy the requirements of hard copy form.
Changes have been made to Article 138 to make it clear that notice In each case the appointment must be received by the Company no of a general meeting can no longer be given by way of a newspaper later than 11.30 am on 10 May 2010. advertisement.
co. uk is provided solely for the Recommendation purposes of enabling shareholders to register electronically their The Board considers the above Resolutions will promote the success appointment of a proxy or proxies for the AGM.
The Company will not of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its accept any other document or information relating to proceedings of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that the Meeting or otherwise which may be sent by electronic means to you vote in favour of all the above Resolutions as they intend to do so that address.
themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any NOTES TO SHAREHOLDERS CREST Proxy Instruction as described on page 139 will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes A copy of this Notice, and the other information required by Section to do so.
311A of the Act, can be found at www.
com Nominated Persons The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the Company under Section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated as at 11.30 am on 10 May 2010 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at Person may, under agreement with the shareholder by whom he 11.30 am on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone or their duly appointed proxies shall be entitled to attend else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no or vote at the Meeting or the adjourned meeting in respect of the such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the Changes to entries on the register of members after 11.30 am on shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
10 May 2010 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, at 11.30 am on the The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be appointment of proxies in the paragraph above entitled Appointing disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or a proxy does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in vote at the Meeting or the adjourned meeting.
that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands.
This Total shares and voting rights is a more transparent method of voting as member votes are counted As at 10 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to the according to the number of shares held.
The Chairman will invite each shareholder and proxy present at the Meeting to complete a poll card publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists indicating how they wish to cast their votes in respect of each of 3 598 229 532 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
The Company holds 222 138 569 ordinary shares in treasury and is not permitted to exercise voting rights in respect of those shares.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 10 March 2010 are 3 376 090 963. www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 139 Appointing a corporate representative A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise All members attending the Meeting have the right to ask questions.
a person or persons to act as its representative s at the AGM.
The Company will answer any question relating to the business In accordance with the provisions of the Act, each such representative being dealt with at the Meeting.
However, an answer need not may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the be given if to do so would involve the disclosure of condential corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the information, or if it is undesirable in the interests of the Company Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate The Company may also answer a question by reference to representative as was previously recommended by the ICSA guidance information already provided on the Companys website.
published in relation to corporate representatives.
Under Sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the Electronic proxy appointment through CREST threshold requirements in those Sections the Requisitioning CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the Members have the right to require the Company i to give CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who and is intended to be moved by the Requisitioning Members at have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST the Meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the with at the Meeting any matter other than a proposed appropriate action on their behalf.
resolution which may be properly included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST may properly be included in the business unless i in the case of service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications, and must contain the constitution or otherwise, ii it is defamatory of any person, or information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a requisition may be in hard Manual available via www.
The message, copy, or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must be authenticated by the person s making it, must be must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the received by the Company not later than 30 March 2010, being the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.30 am on 10 May 2010.
For this purpose, date six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Act can of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be require the Company to publish a statement on its website communicated to the appointee through other means.
setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting the audit that are to be laid before the Meeting: or b any service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular ceasing to hold ofce since the last annual general meeting, that message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a its expenses.
Any such statement must also be sent to the CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting statement available on the website.
The business which may service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure be dealt with at the Meeting includes any statement that the that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any Company has been required to publish on its website.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice in particular, to those Sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic communications viruses Please note that the Company takes all reasonable precautions to ensure viruses are not present in any electronic communication it sends out.
However, the Company cannot accept responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or attachments from the Company and recommends that the shareholders subject all messages to virus checking procedures prior to opening.
Any electronic communication received by the Company, including the lodgement of an electronic proxy form, that is found to contain any virus will not be accepted.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
