90 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Information for shareholders Incorporation Data Protection Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland The Company is a data controller as defined with the registered number 1731. under the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about shareholders or investors The Companys Register of Members is held at for example from a stockbroker, whether by Computershare Investor Services PLC, Lochside telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park, electronic or digital means of communication Edinburgh EH12 9DJ.
Information held on the Companys Register of General Enquiries Members is, by law, public information and the Company cannot prevent any person inspecting If you have an enquiry about the Company, it or having copies of it, on payment of the please contact the Company Secretary at our statutory fee.
registered office: Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ Electronic Communications Tel: 01382 201700 If you hold your shares in your own name, we are Fax: 01382 225133 able to send you annual reports and notices of Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk meetings electronically instead of in paper format.
For security and compliance monitoring If you wish to register for this service please log purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
htm which will provide you with a link to our registrars website.
Investor Relations Our Head of Investor Relations can be contacted Taxation at our registered office detailed above.
If you are in any doubt about your liability to Our website www.
co. uk contains tax arising from a shareholding in the Company information about the Company, including daily you should seek professional advice.
price, net asset value and discount information.
The Investor Relations section of the website contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Income Tax Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of the gross dividend.
Dividends Registrars are paid net of the tax credit.
Our registrars are: If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records Computershare Investor Services PLC will be sent to the address we have for you on PO Box 82, The Pavilions, the register maintained by Computershare.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH The Registrar will send a consolidated tax Change of address notifications and registration voucher to members after the January quarterly enquiries for shareholdings registered in your dividend is paid.
own name should be sent to the Companys If your dividends are received by a nominee, registrars at the above address, who should such as your stockbrokers nominee, you must also be contacted if you would like dividends contact that person for the tax voucher.
Alliance on shares registered in your own name to be Trust Savings will automatically supply you with sent to your bank or building society account.
a consolidated income tax voucher for income You may check your holdings and view other received for you in the Select Investment Plan.
information about Alliance Trust shares registered in your own name at www.
indd 90 20 4 09 12:50:40 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 91 Capital Gains Tax Important dates For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 Our events give us the opportunity to meet March 1982, the cost of those shares for capital and hear from our shareholders and clients, gains tax purposes is deemed to be the price and are an ideal occasion to get an update on of the share on that date.
The market value of what is happening at Alliance Trust.
You can each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on meet senior representatives from the Company that date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for including Katherine Garrett-Cox, our Chief the split on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, Executive and other key members of our team, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 per share.
and learn about our products and services.
The market value of each Second Alliance Trust There will be many opportunities during the PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 was event to ask questions.
Holders of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for Annual General Meeting each 25p ordinary share they held on 20 June The 121st Annual General Meeting of the 2006 and are treated as though they acquired Company will be held at 11.00am on Friday these shares at the same time and at the same 22 May 2009 at the Apex City Quay Hotel, cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they Dundee.
The Notice of Meeting detailing previously held.
This gives an equivalent value the business of the meeting is sent to all of 0.269 per share.
Risks Financial Calendar If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, Proposed dividend payment dates for the you should take professional advice as to financial year to 31 January 2010: whether an investment in our shares is suitable 31 July 2009 for you.
You should be aware that: 2 November 2009 Investment should be made for the long term 1 February 2010 The price of a share will be affected by the 30 April 2010 supply and demand for it on the London Stock Exchange and may not fully represent the Special dividend in respect of the year ending underlying value of the assets of the Company.
31 January 2009 will be paid on: The price generally stands below the net asset 31 July 2009 value of the Company at a discount but it may also stand above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the movement Investor Forums of the discount premium over the period We are pleased to announce that we will be you own the share, as well as the capital holding two investor presentations during 2009 performance of the Companys own assets around the UK.
The assets owned by the Company may have 10 June 2009 London exposure to currencies other than sterling.
12 November 2009 Edinburgh Changes in market movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your To book your place s simply call us on 01382 investment to go up or down 573737 or email events@alliancetrust.
giving us your name and address and telling us What you get back will depend on investment which forum you would like to attend.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
indd 92 20 4 09 12:50:40 Report & Accounts 2009 Statement of Investment Objective and Policy Alliance Trust is a self-managed investment company with investment trust status.
Our objective is to be a core investment for investors seeking increasing value over the long term.
We have no fixed asset allocation benchmark and we invest in a wide range of asset classes throughout the world to achieve our objective.
Our focus is to generate a real return for shareholders over the medium to long term by a combination of capital growth and a rising dividend.
We pursue our objective by: Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities across the globe in different sectors and industries: Investing internationally in fixed income securities: Investing in other asset classes and financial instruments, either directly or through investment vehicles: and Investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to expand into other related activities.
We are prepared to invest any proportion of the total corporate capital in any of the above asset classes, subject only to the restrictions imposed on us by the regulatory or fiscal regime within which we operate.
However, we would expect equities to comprise at least 50% of our portfolio.
Changes to the asset allocation will be dependent upon attractive investment opportunities being available.
Where market conditions permit, we will use gearing of not more than 30% of our net assets at any given time.
We can use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance and protect positions, including currency exposures.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Contact Report and Accounts Alliance Trust PLC, Meadow House, for the year ended 31 January 2009 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ Tel 44 0 1382 201700 Email investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk Printed by MLG, Edinburgh
