58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Notes basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out 1.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 as the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, is given on page 90.
The nature of the Groups operations and its then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements principal activities are a global investment trust.
on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The The functional currency of the Group is sterling and these financial provisions of the revised SORP are effective for accounting periods statements are presented in sterling because that is the currency of commencing on or after 1st January 2009.
Early adoption is permitted the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
and the Group and the Company have prepared the financial Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted out in note 2. below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive Critical accounting estimates and judgements awards deemed to be Performance Fees pursuant to the SORP against The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply with the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting policies recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all indirect which are set out below and in the selection of assumptions used expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated against capital in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure against revenue reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank indebtedness, an on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits.
The allocation of may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected components of the financial statements and associated critical from the Companys investment portfolio.
judgements are as follows: Adopted IFRSs Valuation of unlisted investments IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions was applied Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded in the current financial year.
There is no effect on the Group are stated Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their consolidated financial statements because the interpretation deals estimate, the Directors make use of recognized valuation techniques with accounting for share-based payments at subsidiary level.
At and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same Company level no material adjustment arises since these costs are or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can already recharged.
be estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private IFRS not yet applied equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on The following standards and interpretations which have been unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as supplied adopted by the European Union but are not effective for the year by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors ended 31 January 2009 and have not been applied in preparing the regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those financial statements, are relevant to the financial statements of the valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Group and the Company: Defined benefit scheme The International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued IFRS The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation of 8 Operating Segments in November 2006.
Certain entities are defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions required to report financial and descriptive information about their around mortality and inflation rates applicable to defined benefits.
reportable segments that meet specified criteria.
The standard is The Directors take advice from the Scheme Actuary when selecting effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to 2009.
The amendments to the presentational requirements of the calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
financial statements are not expected to have any financial impact on the Group or Company.
The IASB issued a revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs in March 2007.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Entities are required to capitalise borrowing costs attributable to the development or construction of intangible assets or property, Basis of accounting plant or equipment.
The standard is effective for accounting periods Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and is not expected to have a financial statements have been prepared in accordance with material effect on the Group or Company.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the The IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial European Union Adopted IFRSs.
Statements in September 2007 effective for accounting periods report back original.
