58 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost Notes basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out 1.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003 as the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office revised in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, is given on page 90.
The nature of the Groups operations and its then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements principal activities are a global investment trust.
on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The The functional currency of the Group is sterling and these financial provisions of the revised SORP are effective for accounting periods statements are presented in sterling because that is the currency of commencing on or after 1st January 2009.
Early adoption is permitted the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
and the Group and the Company have prepared the financial Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set statements under the revised provisions save for the matters noted out in note 2. below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive Critical accounting estimates and judgements awards deemed to be Performance Fees pursuant to the SORP against The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the capital profits.
However, the Company does not comply with the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting policies recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all indirect which are set out below and in the selection of assumptions used expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated against capital in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure against revenue reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank indebtedness, an on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits.
The allocation of may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected components of the financial statements and associated critical from the Companys investment portfolio.
judgements are as follows: Adopted IFRSs Valuation of unlisted investments IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions was applied Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded in the current financial year.
There is no effect on the Group are stated Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their consolidated financial statements because the interpretation deals estimate, the Directors make use of recognized valuation techniques with accounting for share-based payments at subsidiary level.
At and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same Company level no material adjustment arises since these costs are or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can already recharged.
be estimated, investments may be carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private IFRS not yet applied equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on The following standards and interpretations which have been unaudited valuations of the underlying listed investments as supplied adopted by the European Union but are not effective for the year by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors ended 31 January 2009 and have not been applied in preparing the regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those financial statements, are relevant to the financial statements of the valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Group and the Company: Defined benefit scheme The International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued IFRS The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation of 8 Operating Segments in November 2006.
Certain entities are defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions required to report financial and descriptive information about their around mortality and inflation rates applicable to defined benefits.
reportable segments that meet specified criteria.
The standard is The Directors take advice from the Scheme Actuary when selecting effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to 2009.
The amendments to the presentational requirements of the calculate the defined benefit scheme liabilities.
financial statements are not expected to have any financial impact on the Group or Company.
The IASB issued a revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs in March 2007.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Entities are required to capitalise borrowing costs attributable to the development or construction of intangible assets or property, Basis of accounting plant or equipment.
The standard is effective for accounting periods Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and is not expected to have a financial statements have been prepared in accordance with material effect on the Group or Company.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the The IASB issued a revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial European Union Adopted IFRSs.
Statements in September 2007 effective for accounting periods report back original.
indd 58 20 4 09 12:50:38 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 59 beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to the Goodwill presentation requirements or financial statements are not expected Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the to have any financial impact on the Group or Company.
cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of The IASB published revisions to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or Presentation and consequential revisions to other standards in jointly controlled entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is February 2008 to improve the accounting for and disclosure of initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured puttable financial instruments.
The revisions are effective for at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 but recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
together they may be adopted earlier.
They are not expected to have Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not a material affect on the Group or the Company.
The IASB published a revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to related revisions to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from Statements following the completion in January 2008 of its project on the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which the acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries.
The standards provide new goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or guidance on accounting for changes in interests in subsidiaries.
The more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be cost of an acquisition will comprise only consideration paid to vendors impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit for equity: other costs will be expensed immediately.
Groups will is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss only account for goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary: subsequent is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill changes in interest will be recognised in equity and only on a loss of allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit procontrol will there be a profit or loss on disposal to be recognised in rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The changes are effective for accounting periods beginning on On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the or after 1 July 2009.
These changes will affect the Groups accounting attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of for future acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries.
the profit or loss on disposal.
No impact is expected from any other standards or interpretations Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs which have been endorsed by the European Union and are available has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being for early adoption, but which have not been adopted.
tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not Basis of consolidation included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company Revenue recognition its subsidiaries made up to 31 January each year.
Control is Dividend income from investments is recognised when the achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial shareholders rights to receive payment have been established, and operating policies of an invested entity so as to obtain benefits normally the ex-dividend date.
Where the Company has an investment in over Where the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form 50% of the issued share capital of an Open Ended Investment of additional shares rather than cash, the amount of cash dividend Company OEIC, the Company will treat the OEIC as a subsidiary.
foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of shares All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are received over the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as eliminated on consolidation.
a capital gain in the income statement.
Segmental analysis Rental income from investment property and income from mineral No segmental analysis is provided as the requirements provided rights is recognised on a time basis.
under IAS14 have not been met and the Directors consider that Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the the identified operating segments are immaterial in relation to principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, the results of the Group as a whole.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 for which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and the receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that impact of this is noted under Accounting Developments above.
Presentation of income statement Special dividends are treated as repayment of capital or as income depending on the facts of each particular case.
In order better to reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, Underwriting commission is recognised as earned.
supplementary information which analyses the income statement Savings and pension plan transaction charges and set-up fees are between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented accounted for on the date on which the underlying transaction occurs.
In accordance with the Companys Annual charges are applied over the period to which they relate.
status as a UK investment company under section 266 of the Expenses connected with rental income and mineral rights are Companies Act 1985, net capital returns may not be distributed by included as administrative expenses.
indd 59 20 4 09 12:50:38 60 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Foreign currencies based compensation schemes settled by the Company a recharge equal to the cost during the period is made to subsidiary companies.
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange applicable to the dates of the transactions.
At Pension costs each balance sheet date, monetary items and non-monetary assets Employer contributions to pension arrangements for staff are and liabilities that are fair valued and are denominated in foreign charged against revenue.
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included Contributions in respect of defined benefit provision are calculated as capital net profit or loss for the period where investments are by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the Trustees at classified as fair value through profit or loss.
intervals of not more than three years, and represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
The functional currency of one subsidiary, AT Asset Management Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in Asia Pacific Limited, is Hong Kong Dollars.
The assets and liabilities which they occur through equity.
of this subsidiary are translated to Sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses Taxation of the subsidiary are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates The Company carries on its business as an investment trust and approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
conducts its affairs so as to qualify as such under the provisions of Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of the Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. subsidiary into Sterling are recognised directly in the Translation Reserve, which is a separate component of equity, and reported in The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses SORIE.
exchange differences are recognised as income or expenses in the The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
period in which the subsidiary is disposed of.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are Expenses taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In respect of are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax the analysis between revenue and capital items presented within is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively the income statement, all expenses have been presented as revenue enacted by the balance sheet date.
items except as follows: In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against are included within the cost of that investment.
capital returns in the supplementary information in the income Expenses which are incidental to the disposal of an investment are statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the income statement, then no tax relief is The Directors have determined to allocate annual bonus and Incentive transferred to the capital return column.
Plan costs which relate to the achievement of investment manager performance objectives and total shareholder return performance Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable objectives against capital profits and those that relate to the temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the achievement of other corporate targets or job performance objectives extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against against revenue profits.
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise The Directors have determined to allocate two thirds of the from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition cost of bank indebtedness incurred to finance investment other than in a business combination of other asset and liabilities in a against capital profits with the balance being allocated against transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Share based payments differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and The Group operates three share based payment schemes, the interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, the Senior the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the Management Equity Incentive Plan SMEIP and the Long Term temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The cost of the AESOP is recognised as a The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each revenue cost in the year.
The grant date fair value of options balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer granted to employees under the SMEIP and LTIP is recognised as an probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the or part of the asset to be recovered.
period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply the options.
The amount recognised as an expense may be adjusted in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
For share Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except report back original.
indd 60 20 4 09 12:50:38 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 61 when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in Investments in property are initially recognised at cost and then which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
valued at fair value based on an independent professional valuation at the reporting dates, with changes in fair value recognised through Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally the income statement.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where they relate to income taxes levied by the same In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using assets and liabilities on a net basis.
valuation techniques, which may include using recent arms length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if Financial instruments available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation technique provisions of the instrument.
The Group shall offset financial assets and commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and financial liabilities if the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates the recognised amounts and interests and intends to settle on a net basis.
of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure has been adopted.
The unquoted equity instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any purpose of the standard is to introduce disclosure requirements provision for impairment.
on the significance of financial instruments to an entitys financial position and performance, the risks arising from these instruments, Investments in subsidiaries are valued at net asset value as the Directors and how the entity manages those risks.
consider this to approximate to the fair value of those entities.
Foreign exchange gains and losses for fair-value designated Derivatives investments are included within the changes in its fair value.
The Group may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risk, foreign Other receivables exchange rate risk and market risk.
Further details of derivative Other receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their financial instruments used in the year to 31 January 2009 are nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated disclosed in note 23 of the financial statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the Office premises derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The resulting gain or loss Office premises at Meadow House and the new head office at 8 is recognised in profit and loss immediately unless the derivative West Marketgait are shown at the valuation as at 31 January 2009 is designated as, and effective as, a hedging instrument, in which carried out by chartered surveyors on the basis of market value.
No event the timing of the recognition in the profit and loss depends on depreciation has been charged on these assets as, in the opinion the nature of the hedge relationship.
of the Board, any provision for depreciation would be immaterial in relation to the revenue for the year and the assets of the Company.
The fair value of derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is Intangible assets more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled The external costs associated with the development and procurement within 12 months.
of significant technology systems are capitalised when it is probable Neither the Group nor the Company hold or issue derivatives for that the expected future economic benefit of that system will flow to trading purposes.
They are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
On the completion of each project amortisation is charged so as to write Investments off the value of these assets over periods up to five years.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract whose terms require Customer contracts delivery within the timeframe established by the market concerned, Customer contracts are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
During the period the residual value was deemed to be impaired and Investments are principally designated as fair value through was written off.
They were being amortised so as to write off the profit and loss upon initial recognition not including transaction value of these contracts over a period of twenty years.
Listed investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded Motor vehicles and other fixed assets price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which Motor vehicles and certain other fixed assets are held at cost less the investment is quoted.
Listed investments include Collective accumulated depreciation, which is charged to write off the value of Investment Schemes authorised in the UK.
These are valued at the asset over three years.
indd 61 20 4 09 12:50:38 62 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Financial liabilities and equity Translation reserve Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according This reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in Revaluation reserve the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
This reserve is used to record changes in the valuation of the Bank borrowings Companys office premises.
A downward revaluation in office Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the premises is charged to the income statement to the extent that there proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, is no earlier upward revaluation in this reserve for those premises.
including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct Merger reserve issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income This reserve was created as part of the arrangements for the statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to acquisition of the assets of Second Alliance Trust PLC.
the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Capital Redemption reserve Other payables This reserve was created on the cancellation and repayment of the Companys preference share capital.
Other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Revenue reserves Realised and unrealised capital reserves Net revenue profits and losses of the Company and its subsidiaries The AIC SORP as revised in January 2009 does not require, either and the fair value costs of share based payments which are revenue in the primary statements or in the notes to the accounts, the in nature are dealt with in this reserve.
disclosure of the net profit or loss on investments held at the reporting date analysed between those that are realised and those that are unrealised in accordance with the definition set out in the ICAEW guidance Tech 01 08.
The Company and the Group have adopted these provisions of the revised SORP in the current financial year and have in addition changed the presentation of the comparative figures in the income statement, balance sheet and notes to the accounts as appropriate.
A description of each of the reserves follows: Capital reserve The following are dealt with through this reserve: Gains and losses on realisation of investments Changes in fair value investments which are readily convertible to cash Changes in fair value investments which are not readily convertible to cash Realised exchange differences of a capital nature Purchases of shares by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust Fair value cost of share based payments which are capital in nature Amounts by which other assets and liabilities valued at fair value differ from their book value.
