Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2009 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date either directly that is, as prices or 1.
Summary of significant that control is transferred to the Group and indirectly that is, derived from prices accounting policies cease to be consolidated from the date that Level 2 : and Amlin plc is a public limited company control is transferred out.
All inter-company registered in England and Wales.
The address inputs to a valuation model for the asset or balances, profits and transactions are eliminated.
of the registered office is St Helens, liability that are not based on observable 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
Details of material subsidiaries included within market data that is, unobservable inputs the consolidated financial statements can be Level 3.
The basis of preparation, basis of found in note 35. consolidation and significant accounting The adoption of the amendment results in policies adopted in the preparation of Amlin Adoption of new and revised Standards additional disclosures but there is no impact plc and subsidiaries the Group consolidated a Standards, amendments to published on the Groups earnings per share.
Please see financial statements are set out below.
standards and interpretations effective on note 3 for further details.
or after 1 January 2009 Basis of preparation IFRS 8, Operating segments, replaces IAS IAS 39 and IFRS 7, Reclassification of These consolidated financial statements are 14, Segment reporting, with its requirement financial assets amendment, permits an prepared in accordance with International to determine primary and secondary reporting entity to reclassify non-derivative financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as segments.
Under the requirements of the new assets other than those designated at fair adopted for use in the European Union EU.
standard, the Groups external segment value through income by the entity upon initial The consolidated financial statements comply reporting will be based on the internal reporting recognition out of the fair value through with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
to the Board of Directors of the Company income category in particular circumstances.
in its function as the chief operating decisionThe consolidated financial statements have The amendment also permits an entity to maker, which makes decisions on the been prepared on the historical cost basis transfer from the available-for-sale category to allocation of resources and assesses the except for cash and cash equivalents, financial the loans and receivables category a financial performance of the reportable segments.
investments, share options, and pension asset that would have met the definition of loans The application of IFRS 8 does not have any assets which are measured at their fair value.
and receivables if the financial asset had not material effects for the Group but has an been designated as available for sale, if the Except where otherwise stated, all figures impact on segment disclosure.
The segment entity has the intention and ability to hold that included in the consolidated financial results have been amended accordingly.
financial asset for the foreseeable future.
The statements are presented in millions of British Group did not elect to reclassify any financial IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial Pounds Sterling Sterling shown as m assets following adoption of these standards.
statements, which was effective from 1 rounded to the nearest 100,000.
January 2009, prohibits the presentation of IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment, The accounting policies adopted in preparing items of income and expenses that is, nondeals with vesting conditions and cancellations.
these financial statements are consistent with owner changes in equity in the statement of It clarifies that vesting conditions are service those followed in the preparation of the changes in equity.
It therefore requires nonconditions and performance conditions only.
Groups annual financial statements for the owner changes in equity to be presented Other features of a share-based payment are year ended 31 December 2008, unless separately from owner changes in equity not vesting conditions.
These features would otherwise stated.
in a statement of comprehensive income.
need to be included in the grant date fair value As a result, the Group presents in the In accordance with IFRS 4, the Group has for transactions with employees and others consolidated statement of changes in equity applied existing accounting practices for providing similar services: they would not all owner changes in equity, whereas all noninsurance contracts, modified as appropriate, impact the number of awards expected to owner changes in equity are presented in the to comply with the IFRS framework and vest or valuation thereof subsequent to grant consolidated statement of comprehensive applicable standards.
All cancellations, whether by the entity income.
Comparative information has been or by other parties, should receive the same Basis of consolidation re-presented so that it also conforms with the accounting treatment.
The Group and The financial statements consolidate the revised standard.
As the change in accounting Company have adopted IFRS 2 amendment accounts of the Company and subsidiary policy only impacts presentation aspects, from 1 January 2009.
The amendment does undertakings, including the Groups there is no impact on earnings per share.
not have a material impact on the Groups or underwriting through participation on Lloyds Companys financial statements.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in syndicates.
Subsidiaries are those entities in a foreign operation, clarifies the accounting which the Group, directly or indirectly, has the IFRS 7, Financial instruments Disclosures treatment in respect of net investment power to govern the operating and financial amendment, requires enhanced disclosures hedging.
This includes the fact that net policies in order to gain economic benefits about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
investment hedging relates to differences in and includes the Companys employee benefit The Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 functional currency not presentation currency, trusts.
The financial statements of all with effect from 1 January 2009.
This requires and hedging instruments may be held subsidiaries are prepared for the same disclosure of fair value measurements by level of anywhere in the Group.
The requirements reporting year as the Parent Company.
the following fair value measurement hierarchy: of IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign Consolidation adjustments are made to quoted prices unadjusted in active exchange rates, do apply to the hedged item.
convert subsidiary accounts prepared under markets for identical assets or liabilities This interpretation does not have a material different accounting standards into IFRS so Level 1 : impact on the Groups financial statements.
as to remove the effects of any different accounting policies that may exist.
inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 126 www.
Shareholder information 201 b Standards, amendments to published IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets.
IFRS 9 standards and interpretations early adopted The amendment is part of the IASBs annual addresses classification and measurement by the Group improvements project published in April 2009. of financial assets and is available for early In 2009, the Group did not early adopt any The amendment clarifies guidance in adoption once endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 9 new, revised or amended standards.
measuring the fair value of an intangible asset replaces the multiple classification and acquired in a business combination and it measurement models in IAS 39 with a single c Standards, amendments and permits the grouping of intangible assets as model that has only two classification interpretations to existing standards that are a single asset if each asset has a similar useful categories: amortised cost and fair value.
IFRS not yet effective and have not been early economic life.
The Group and Company will 9 represents the first milestone in the IASBs adopted by the Group apply IAS 38 amendment from 1 January planned replacement of IAS 39.
The effect of IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial 2010.
The amendment will not result in a adopting IFRS 9 on the Groups and Companys statements.
The amendment is part of the material impact on the Groups or Companys financial statements is currently being evaluated.
IASBs annual improvements project financial statements.
The amendment IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets provides clarification that the potential IAS 39 amendment, Financial instruments: to owners.
The interpretation is part of the settlement of a liability by the issue of equity Recognition and measurement eligible IASBs annual improvements project is not relevant to its classification as current hedged items.
The amendment was issued published in April 2009.
It provides guidance or non-current.
By amending the definition in July 2008.
It provides the following on accounting for arrangements whereby of current liability, the amendment permits guidance.
On the designation of a one-sided an entity distributes non-cash assets to a liability to be classified as non-current risk in a hedged item, IAS 39 concludes that a shareholders either as a distribution of provided that the entity has an unconditional purchased option designated in its entirety as reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also right to defer settlement by transfer of cash the hedging instrument of a one-sided risk will been amended to require that assets are or other assets for at least 12 months after the not be perfectly effective.
The designation of classified as held for distribution only when accounting period notwithstanding the fact inflation as a hedged risk or portion is not they are available for distribution in their that the entity could be required by the permitted unless in particular situations.
It is present condition and the distribution is highly counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
not expected to have a material impact on the probable.
The Group and Company will apply The Group and Company will apply IAS 1 Group or Companys financial statements.
It is not amendment from 1 January 2010.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations.
expected to have a material impact on the Groups or Companys financial statements.
The revised standard continues to apply the Group or Companys financial statements.
acquisition method to business combinations, IFRIC 18, Transfers of assets from IAS 24 amendment, Related party with some significant changes.
For example, customers, was issued in January 2009. disclosures.
The amendment relaxes the all payments to purchase a business are to be It clarifies how to account for transfers of disclosures of transactions between recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, items of property, plant and equipment by government-related entities and clarifies with contingent payments classified as debt entities that receive such transfers from their related-party definition.
The amendment is subsequently re-measured through the customers.
The interpretation also applies to not expected to have an impact on the Group income statement.
There is a choice on an agreements in which an entity receives cash or Companys financial statements.
 basis to measure from a customer when that amount of cash the minority interest in the acquiree either must be used only to construct or acquire an IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate at fair value or at the minority interests item of property, plant and equipment and the financial statements.
The revised standard proportionate share of the acquirees net entity must then use that item to provide the requires the effects of all transactions with assets.
All acquisition-related costs should customer with ongoing access to supply of minority interests to be recorded in equity if be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 goods and or services.
The Group will not there is no change in control and these revised prospectively to all business be impacted by the adoption of IFRIC 18. transactions will no longer result in goodwill or combinations from 1 January 2010. gains and losses.
The standard also specifies Critical accounting judgements and the accounting when control is lost.
Any IFRS 5 amendment, Measurement of nonkey sources of estimation uncertainty remaining interest in the entity is re-measured current assets or disposal groups classified The preparation of financial statements to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised as held for sale.
The amendment is part requires the use of estimates and assumptions in profit or loss.
The Group will apply IAS 27 of the IASBs annual improvements project that affect the reported amounts of assets and revised prospectively to transactions with published in April 2009.
The amendment liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent minority interests from 1 January 2010. provides clarification that IFRS 5, Non-current assets and liabilities.
Although these estimates assets held for sale and discontinued are based on managements best knowledge IAS 32 amendment, Classification of rights operations, specifies the disclosures required of current events and actions, actual results issues.
The amended standard allows rights in respect of non-current assets or disposal may ultimately differ from those estimates.
issues to be classified as equity when the groups classified as held for sale or price is denominated in a currency other than Insurance contract liabilities discontinued operations.
It also clarifies that the entitys functional currency.
The amendment The most significant estimate made in the general requirements of IAS 1 still apply, is effective for annual periods beginning on or the financial statements relates to unpaid particularly IAS 1 paragraph 15 to achieve a after 1 February 2010 and should be applied insurance claim reserves and related loss fair presentation and paragraph 125 sources retrospectively.
The amendment is not adjustment expenses of the Group.
The Group and expected to have an impact on the Groups Company will apply IFRS 5 amendment from or Companys financial statements.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
127 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 The amounts included in these financial The results and financial position of those 1.
Summary of significant statements are sensitive to changes in the Group entities whose functional currency accounting policies continued assumptions used to derive the value of the is not Sterling are translated into Sterling The estimated provision for the total level of scheme assets and liabilities.
as follows: claims incurred changes as more information becomes known about the actual losses An expense of 23.7 million 2008: 5.9 Assets and liabilities for each balance for which the initial provisions were set up.
million has been recognised in the Statement sheet presented are translated at the The change in claims costs for prior period of Comprehensive Income and a debit of closing exchange rate at the date of the insurance claims represents the claims 2.3 million 2008: 2.6 million credit has balance sheet: development of earlier reported years incurred been recognised in the Income Statement.
Income and expenses for each income in the current accounting period.
In 2009, Note 28 provides further details of the Groups statement are translated at average there has been a net positive development retirement benefit obligations.
exchange rates during the period as an of 174.1 million 2008: 114.7 million for the Foreign currency translation approximation to the exchange rates at Group, reflecting favourable experience in the The Group and Company present their the dates of each transaction : and 2008 and prior reported years.
Note 3 provides accounts in Sterling since they are subject to further details of the method the Group applies On consolidation all resulting exchange regulation in the United Kingdom and the net in estimating insurance contract liabilities.
differences are recognised as a assets, liabilities and income of the Group and component of equity.
Financial investments Company are currently weighted towards The methods and assumptions used by Sterling.
US dollar and Euro revenues are Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising the Group and Company in estimating the significant but the Sterling revenue stream is on the acquisition of a foreign entity are fair value of financial assets are described also currently material.
All Group entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign in note 3. incorporated in the United Kingdom with the entity and translated at the closing rate.
exception of Amlin Bermuda Holdings Ltd, Intangible assets Where contracts to sell currency have been Amlin Bermuda Ltd both incorporated in Intangible assets are recognised on the entered into prior to the year end, the Bermuda, Amlin Illinois, Inc. the United acquisition of a subsidiary or the purchase contracted rates have been used.
Differences States of America, Amlin France SAS, Anglo of specific rights to renew a particular arising on the translation of foreign currency French Underwriters SAS both France, Amlin underwriting portfolio.
amounts on such items are included in other Corporate Insurance N. V. the Netherlands operating expenses.
The value of such intangibles is largely based and Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Singapore.
on the expected cash flows of the business All Group entities conduct business in a range Insurance contracts premium acquired and contractual rights on that of economic environments, although these are Gross written premium comprises premium business.
Certain key assumptions are used to primarily the United Kingdom, United States on insurance contracts incepting during the assess the value of the intangible such as past of America and Continental Europe.
Due to the financial year.
The estimated premium income underwriting performance and past renewal regulatory environment and the fact that the in respect of facility contracts, for example values of underwriting business.
These are the Group trades through the Lloyds market, all binding authorities and lineslips, is deemed subject of specific uncertainty and a reduction Group companies incorporated in the United to be written in full at the inception of the in underwriting profitability or renewal patterns Kingdom have adopted Sterling as their contract.
Premium is disclosed before the of business acquired may result in the value of functional currency, although Amlin Overseas deduction of brokerage and taxes or duties the intangible being impaired and written off in Holdings Limiteds Netherlands operation has levied on them.
Estimates are included for the current accounting period.
Note 22 provides adopted the Euro as its functional currency.
premium receivable after the period end but further details of current impairments.
The Group companies incorporated in not yet notified, as well as adjustments made Bermuda and the United States of America in the year to premium written in prior Staff incentive plans have adopted the US dollar as their functional accounting periods.
The Group recognises a liability and expense currency.
Amlin Singapore Pte Limited has for staff incentive plans based on a formula The proportion of gross written premium, adopted the Singapore dollar as its functional that takes into consideration the underwriting gross of commission payable, attributable currency.
The Group companies incorporated profit after certain adjustments.
Underwriting to periods after the balance sheet date is in France and the Netherlands have adopted profit is estimated based on current deferred as a provision for unearned premium.
the Euro as their functional currency.
expectation of premiums and claims and will The change in this provision is taken to the change as more information is known or future Transactions denominated in foreign income statement in order that revenue is events occur.
Where estimates change related currencies are translated using the exchange recognised over the period of the risk.
staff incentive plan liabilities may also change.
rates prevailing at the dates of the Premium is earned over the policy contract transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities Retirement benefit obligations period.
The earned element is calculated are translated at the rates of exchange at the Following the departure of other key remaining separately for each contract on a 365ths balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and employers in the scheme during 2008 the basis.
For premium written under facilities liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing Group is now able to value reliably its the earned element is calculated based on in the period in which the asset or liability first proportionate share of the defined benefit the estimated risk profile of the portfolio of arose.
Exchange differences are recognised obligation, plan assets and post-employment contracts involved.
costs associated with its participation in the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined benefit scheme.
Since the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. the Group also now operates defined benefit schemes in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Shareholder information 201 Acquisition costs Reinsurance contracts held Segment reporting Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred Contracts entered into by the Group with Operating segments are reported in a manner on insurance contracts written during the reinsurers under which the Group is consistent with the internal reporting provided financial year.
They are incurred on the same compensated for losses on contracts issued to the chief operating decision-maker.
The basis as the earned proportions of the premium by the Group and that meet the classification chief operating decision-maker, which is they relate to.
Deferred acquisition costs are requirements for insurance contracts are responsible for allocating resources and amortised over the period in which the related classified as reinsurance contracts held.
assessing the performance of the operating revenues are earned.
Deferred acquisition Insurance contracts entered into by the Group segments, has been identified as the Board costs are reviewed at the end of each under which the contract holder is another of Directors of the Company.
reporting period and are written off where they insurer inwards reinsurance are included Business combinations are no longer considered to be recoverable.
The acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted Reinsurance premium ceded The benefits to which the Group is entitled for using the purchase method.
The cost of Reinsurance premium ceded comprises the under its reinsurance contracts held are acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets cost of reinsurance arrangements placed recognised as reinsurance assets.
These given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity and are accounted for in the same accounting assets consist of short-term balances due instruments issued by the Group at the date of period as the related insurance contracts.
from reinsurers, as well as longer-term exchange, plus any costs directly attributable The provision for reinsurers share of unearned receivables that are dependent on the to the business combination.
Identifiable assets premium represents that part of reinsurance expected claims and benefits arising under acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities written premium which is estimated to be the related reinsured insurance contracts.
assumed, meeting the conditions for recognition earned in following financial years.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value are measured consistently with the amounts at the acquisition date, irrespective of the Insurance contracts liabilities associated with the reinsured insurance extent of any minority interest.
The excess of Claims paid are defined as those claims contracts and in accordance with the terms the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the transactions settled up to the balance sheet of each reinsurance contract.
Groups share of the identifiable net assets date including internal and external claims acquired is recorded as goodwill.
settlement expenses allocated to those Where there is objective evidence that a transactions.
reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group Interests in jointly owned entities reduces the carrying amount of the Investments in jointly owned entities are Unpaid claims reserves are made for known reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount accounted for using the equity method.
or anticipated liabilities under insurance and recognises that impairment loss in the contracts which have not been settled up to Operations held for sale income statement.
Included within the Assets and liabilities held for disposal as provision is an allowance for the future costs Salvage and subrogation part of operations which are held for sale are of settling those claims.
This is estimated reimbursements shown separately in the consolidated balance based on past experience and current Some insurance contracts permit the Group sheet.
The relevant assets are recorded at the expectations of future cost levels.
to sell usually damaged property acquired lower of their carrying amount and their fair in settling a claim for example, salvage.
The value, less the estimated selling costs.
Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an Group may also have the right to pursue third Operations held for sale are being actively undiscounted basis.
Unpaid claims reserves parties for payment of some or all costs for marketed to external investors.
After one year acquired through a business combination are example, subrogation.
in which in excess of 50% of the operation is measured at fair value, using an applicable held by the Group, the assets and liabilities risk-free discount rate and having regard to Estimates of salvage recoveries are included are consolidated unless the delay in attracting the expected settlement dates of the claims.
as an allowance in the measurement of the sufficient external investment is due to Provisions are subject to a detailed quarterly insurance liability for claims, and salvage circumstances beyond the Groups control review where forecast future cash flows and property is recognised in other insurance and previously considered unlikely.
When the existing amounts provided are reviewed and assets when the liability is settled.
The Group ceases to hold a 50% interest in the reassessed.
Any changes to the amounts held allowance is the amount that can reasonably assets and liabilities, it shall be re-designated are adjusted through the income statement.
be recovered from the disposal of the property.
as fair value through income.
Provisions are established above an actuarial Subrogation reimbursements are also best estimate, reflecting a risk premium Intangible assets considered as an allowance in the relating to the uncertainty on the actual level i.
Syndicate capacity measurement of the insurance liability for of claims incurred.
There is therefore a The cost of Lloyds syndicate participations claims and are recognised in other assets reasonable chance of release of reserves that have been purchased in the Lloyds when the liability is settled.
The allowance is from one underwriting year to the next.
capacity auctions is capitalised at cost.
the assessment of the amount that can be Syndicate capacity is considered to have an The unpaid claims reserves also include, recovered from the action against the liable indefinite life as it will provide benefits over where necessary, a reserve for unexpired third party.
an indefinite future period and is therefore not risks where, at the balance sheet date, the Net investment income subject to an annual amortisation charge.
The estimated costs of future claims and related Dividends and any related tax credits are continuing value of the capacity is reviewed deferred acquisition costs are expected to recognised as income on the date that the for impairment annually by reference to the exceed the unearned premium provision.
related listed investments are marked exexpected future profit streams to be earned dividend.
Other investment income, interest from Syndicate 2001, with any impairment in receivable, expenses and interest payable are value being charged to the income statement.
recognised on an accruals basis.
129 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 the extent of impairment and the difference The uncertainty around bond valuation is 1.
Summary of significant is charged to the income statement.
discussed further in note 3. accounting policies continued ii.
Goodwill Gains and losses on disposal of property and Derivative financial instruments Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 equipment are determined by reference to Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value January 1999 was written off to reserves.
their carrying amount and are taken to the on the date on which a derivative contract is Goodwill recognised between 1 January 1999 income statement.
Repairs and renewals are entered into.
Fair values for over-the-counter and the date of transition to IFRS 1 January charged to the income statement when the derivatives are supplied by the relevant 2004 was capitalised and amortised on a expenditure is incurred.
Changes in the fair value of straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
derivative instruments are recognised Financial assets and liabilities Following the transition to IFRS this goodwill immediately in the income statement unless The Group and Company classifies its is stated at net book value at 1 January 2004. the derivative is designated as a hedging financial assets as fair value through income Goodwill that was recognised subsequent to instrument.
As defined by IAS 39 Financial FV or available for sale.
The classification 1 January 2004 is capitalised.
Goodwill is Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, depends on the purpose for which the tested for impairment annually, or when the Group designates certain foreign currency financial assets were acquired.
Management events or changes in circumstance indicate derivatives as hedges of net investments in determines the classification of its financial that it might be impaired, by comparing the foreign operations.
The Group documents at assets at initial recognition.
net present value of the future earnings stream the inception of each hedging transaction the from the acquired subsidiary, against the Other than investments in certain unlisted relationship between hedging instruments and carrying value of the goodwill and the carrying insurance intermediaries see below, the hedged items, as well as its risk management value of the related net assets.
Group and Company classifies its financial objectives and strategy for undertaking investments as FV to the extent that they are various hedging transactions.
Other intangible assets not reported as cash and cash equivalents.
documents its assessment, both at hedge Other intangible assets comprise costs This classification requires all fair value inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether directly attributable to securing the intangible changes to be recognised immediately within the derivatives that are used in hedging rights to broker and customer relationships.
the investment return line in the income transactions are highly effective in offsetting Costs are recognised as intangible assets statement.
Within the FV category, fixed changes in fair values of hedged items.
where they can be identified separately and maturity and equity securities are classified measured reliably and it is probable that they Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument as trading as the Group and Company buys will be recovered by directly related future related to the effective portion is recognised with the intention to resell.
Other intangible assets are reviewed in the Consolidated Statement of are classified as other than trading within for impairment losses annually or whenever Comprehensive Income.
The fair values of the FV category.
events or changes in circumstances indicate derivative instruments used for hedging that the carrying amount may not be The Group and Company has investments purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Other intangible assets are in certain unlisted insurance intermediaries and losses accumulated in equity are included carried at cost less accumulated amortisation which are treated as available for sale and in the income statement when the foreign and impairment losses.
Amortisation is are measured at fair value.
Changes in fair operation is partially disposed of or sold.
calculated on a straight-line basis based value of investments are included in Other Loans and receivables on the estimated useful economic life of Comprehensive Income in the period in which Loans and receivables are measured at the broker and customer relationships.
They are tested for impairment amortised cost using an effective interest annually, or when events or changes in Property and equipment rate.
Appropriate allowances for estimated circumstances indicate that an impairment Property and equipment are stated at irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the might have occurred.
When securities historical cost less accumulated depreciation income statement when there is evidence classified as available for sale are sold or and provision for impairment where appropriate.
that the asset is impaired.
These are reversed impaired, the accumulated fair value Depreciation is calculated on the straight line when the triggering event that caused the adjustments recognised in equity are included method to write down the cost of such assets impairment is reversed.
in the income statement as gains and losses to their residual values over their estimated from investment securities.
If in a subsequent Borrowings useful lives as follows: period the fair value of an investment Borrowings are stated initially at the Leasehold land and over period classified as available for sale increases consideration received net of transaction buildings of lease and the increase can be objectively related costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently Freehold buildings 5% per annum to an event occurring after the impairment stated at amortised cost using the effective Motor vehicles 33% per annum loss was recognised in the income statement, interest method.
Any difference between the impairment loss is reversed through the amortised cost and the redemption value is Computer equipment 33% per annum income statement.
recognised in the income statement over the Furniture, fixtures and period of the borrowings.
Transaction costs leasehold improvements 20% per annum Purchases and sales of investments are on borrowings are charged through the income recognised on the trade date, which is the statement over the period of the borrowings.
The carrying values of property and equipment date the Group or Company commits to are reviewed for impairment annually or when purchase or sell the assets.
These are initially Borrowing costs events or changes in circumstance indicate recognised at fair value, and are subsequently Borrowing costs comprise interest payable that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any re-measured at fair value based on quoted on loans and bank overdrafts and such condition exists, the recoverable amount bid prices.
Changes in the fair value of commissions charged for the utilisation of of the asset is estimated in order to determine investments are included in the income letters of credit.
These costs are charged statement in the period in which they arise.
to the income statement as financing costs, 130 www.
In addition, fees paid for the cost over the service lives of employees.
have been enacted or substantively enacted arrangement of debt and letter of credit Actuarial gains and losses arising from the by the balance sheet date.
facilities are charged to borrowing costs recognition and funding of the Groups Deferred tax is recognised on differences over the life of the facility.
pension obligations are recognised in the between the carrying amounts of assets Statement of Comprehensive Income during Cash and cash equivalents and liabilities in the financial statements the period in which they arise.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the and the corresponding tax bases used in balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes The liability recognised in the balance sheet in the computation of taxable profit, and is of the cash flow statement, cash and cash respect of defined benefit pension plans is the accounted for using the balance sheet liability equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits present value of the fair value of plan assets method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally held on call with banks and other short-term, less the defined benefit obligation at the recognised for all taxable temporary highly liquid investments which are believed balance sheet date, together with adjustments differences and deferred tax assets are to be subject to insignificant risk of change for unrecognised past-service costs.
The recognised to the extent that it is probable in fair value.
present value of the defined benefit obligation that taxable profits will be available against is determined by discounting the estimated which deductible temporary differences can Treasury shares future cash outflows using interest rates of be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
high quality corporate bonds that have terms recognised if the temporary difference arises No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, to maturity approximating to the terms of the from goodwill or from the initial recognition sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury related pension liability.
other than in a business combination of other shares.
Any consideration paid or received assets and liabilities in a transaction that is recognised directly in equity.
Pension contributions to defined contribution affects neither the tax profit nor the plans are charged to the income statement Leases accounting profit.
Leases are classified as finance leases Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for whenever the terms of the lease transfer ii.
Equity compensation plans taxable temporary differences arising on substantially all the risks and rewards to the The Company operates a number of executive investments in subsidiaries and associates, Group.
All other leases are classified as and employee share schemes.
Options issued and interests in joint ventures, except where operating leases.
after 7 November 2002 are accounted for using the Group and Company is able to control the the fair value method where the cost for Assets held under finance leases and hire reversal of the temporary difference and it is providing equity compensation is based on the purchase transactions are capitalised in the probable that the temporary difference will not fair value of the share option or award at the date balance sheet and depreciated over their reverse in the foreseeable future.
The fair value is calculated using an useful lives.
The initial capital value is the option pricing model and the corresponding The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is lower of the fair value of the leased asset expense is recognised in the income statement reviewed at each balance sheet date and and the present value of the minimum lease over the vesting period.
The accrual for this reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable payments.
Payments under finance leases charge is recognised in equity shareholders that sufficient taxable profits will be available to are apportioned between finance charges and funds.
When the options are exercised, the allow all or part of the asset to be recovered, the reduction of the lease obligation so as to proceeds received net of any transaction costs or to the extent that it has been utilised.
achieve a consistent rate of interest on the are credited to share capital for the par value remaining balance of the lease liability.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that and the surplus to share premium.
are expected to apply in the period when the Rentals payable under operating leases are iii.
Other benefits liability is settled or the asset is realised.
charged to income in the period in which they Other employee incentive schemes and longDeferred tax is charged or credited to profit or become payable in accordance with the terms term service awards, including sabbatical loss, except when it relates to items charged of the lease.
leave, are recognised when they accrue to or credited directly to equity, in which case Employee benefits employees.
A provision is made for the the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Pension obligations estimated liability for long-service leave as Deferred tax is provided for on the profits of The Group participates in a number of pension a result of services rendered by employees overseas subsidiaries where it is reasonably schemes, including several defined benefit up to the balance sheet date.
foreseeable that distribution of the profit back schemes, defined contribution schemes and Other income to the UK will take place and the UK dividend personal pension schemes.
Fee income from providing information exemption is not expected to apply.
The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme is services is recognised on an earned basis.
Dividend distribution a multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
Taxation Dividend distribution to the Companys Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. which was Income tax expense represents the sum of shareholders is recognised as a liability in the acquired by the Group in the year, participates the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Groups and Companys financial statements in two defined benefit schemes.
in the period in which the dividends are The tax currently payable is based on taxable The defined benefit obligation and associated approved by the Companys shareholders.
Taxable profit differs from pension costs are calculated annually by net profit as reported in the income statement independent actuaries using the projected unit because it excludes items of income or credit method.
This method sees each period expense that are taxable or deductible in other of service as giving rise to an additional unit years or that are never taxable or deductible.
of benefit entitlement and measures each unit The Groups and Companys liability for separately to build up the final liability.
The current tax is calculated using tax rates that cost of providing these benefits is charged to the income statement to spread the pension 131 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 in excess of the Pillar 1 requirement and more 2.
Risk disclosures than 20 million 2008: 45 million in excess The capital structure of the Group consists 3.1 Underwriting risk of the Pillar 2 requirement.
of equity attributable to equity holders of the The Group accepts underwriting risk in a Company, comprising issued capital, reserves range of classes of business through Lloyds The Group does not seek to retain any assets in and retained earnings as disclosed in the Syndicate 2001, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin excess of the Lloyds capital requirement within Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Corporate Insurance.
Syndicate 2001s portfolio the Lloyds framework and any surplus is paid to and note 23, and subordinated debt as is underwritten by Amlin London, Amlin UK and the corporate entities in the Group.
For business planning through its wholly owned coverholder in France, Amlin Bermudas minimum capital purposes, account is also taken of the Anglo French Underwriters SAS AFU.
The bias requirements are determined by the rules laid Groups undrawn debt facilities as disclosed of the Groups portfolio is towards short-tail down by the Bermuda Monetary Authority in note 27. property and accident risk but liability coverage BMA regulations.
It is classified as a Class IV is also underwritten.
The Amlin corporate member, which supports reinsurer and the minimum solvency margin is Syndicate 2001, is required to hold regulatory In underwriting insurance or reinsurance the greatest of US$100 million, 50% of net capital in compliance with the rules issued by policies the Groups underwriters use their premiums written in the current financial year, the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA.
skill, knowledge and data on past claims 15% of claims reserves and the Enhanced In addition, being a Lloyds operation it is also experience to evaluate the likely claims cost Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR is subject to Lloyds capital requirements.
Under and therefore the premium that should be calculated on an annual basis through either FSA rules, the corporate member must hold sufficient across a portfolio of risks to cover the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement capital in excess of the higher of two amounts.
claims costs, expenses and to produce an BSCR model or an approved internal model.
The first is the Pillar 1 requirement, as acceptable profit.
However, due to the nature As at 31 December 2009, the ECR was the prescribed by EU directives, calculated by of insurance risk there is no guarantee that the largest of the four criteria at approximately applying fixed percentages to premiums and premium charged will be sufficient to cover US$424.6 million 2008: US$379.4 million.
The second, Pillar 2, is an Individual claims costs.
This shortfall may originate either In addition, as a Class IV reinsurer it is Capital Assessment ICA calculated internally from insufficient premium being calculated and required to maintain minimum liquidity ratio by the firm.
The ICA is defined as the level of charged or may result from an unexpected, such that the value of relevant assets is capital that is required to contain the or unprecedented, high level of claims.
not less than 75% of its relevant liabilities.
probability of insolvency, over a one year Amlin Bermuda met this requirement at A number of controls are deployed to limit the timeframe, to no greater than 0.5%.
For trading purposes amount of insurance exposure underwritten.
calculation basis is generally considered to be management believes that it is necessary to Each year a business plan is prepared and broadly equivalent to a BBB insurance hold at least US$1 billion of capital, which is agreed which is used to monitor the amount of financial strength rating.
The ICA calculation currently in excess of the required minimum.
premium income, and exposure, to be written in considers all ultimate losses incurred over a total and for each class of business.
Progress Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI is one year business planning horizon, and any against this plan is monitored during the year.
required to hold regulatory capital in prior year reserve movements.
The Group also operates under a line guide that compliance with the rules issued by its For the purposes of setting Lloyds capital determines the maximum liability per policy that regulator and as prescribed by EU directives.
requirements, Lloyds currently uplifts all ICAs can be written for each class on a gross or net Regulatory capital is calculated by applying by 35% 2008: 35% to bring the capital to of facultative reinsurance basis and for each fixed percentages to premiums and claims.
a level to support a higher financial strength underwriter.
These can be exceeded in At 31 December 2009, ACIs available regulatory rating.
The final capital requirement is then exceptional circumstances but only with the capital was 308.0 million compared to a subject to a minimum of 40% 2008: 40% approval of senior management.
Apart from minimum requirement of 111.0 million.
For of the syndicates agreed regulatory premium the UK motor liability, ACI fleet and some of wider commercial reasons, ACIs capital is capacity limit.
the international comprehensive motor liability managed so as to support its financial portfolio, which has unlimited liability, all strength ratings.
The syndicate also benefits from mutualised policies have a per loss limit which caps the capital within the Lloyds Central Fund, for which The method by which the Group manages size of any individual claims.
For larger sum a variable annual levy, for 2009 of 0.5% 2008: its capital base is described on page 61 of insured risks facultative reinsurance coverage 0.5%, of syndicate gross premium is payable.
the Performance section under Financial may be purchased.
The Group is also exposed Management.
The ICA is reviewed annually by Lloyds and to catastrophe losses which may impact many periodically by the FSA.
The FSA expect risks in a single event and again reinsurance is In addition to regulatory capital requirements, management to apply their rules continuously.
purchased to limit the impact of loss the Group believes that it should retain a level If a firm breaches its Pillar 1 capital it must aggregation from such events.
These of capital within the Group to allow it to grow cease trading: if Pillar 2 capital is breached reinsurance arrangements are described in the its exposures materially in the aftermath of a steps must be taken urgently to restore capital reinsurance arrangements section on page 138. major insurance disaster, but also to respond to the required level.
Due to the nature of the to other opportunities to enhance long-term Insurance liabilities are written through Lloyds capital setting process, Funds at Lloyds growth, for example through acquisition.
The individual risk acceptances, reinsurance requirements are formally assessed and funded overall capital held by the Group is driven by treaties or through facilities whereby Amlin is twice yearly at discrete periods and must be the business mix, nature and objectives of bound by other underwriting entities.
Facility met for the Syndicate to continue underwriting.
each business unit and its context within the arrangements delegate underwriting authority wider Group.
At 31 December 2009 the level of capital held to other underwriters, or to agents acting as on behalf of the Amlin corporate member was coverholders, that use their judgement to write more than 200 million 2008: 200 million risks on our behalf under clear authority levels.
Shareholder information 201 The insurance liabilities underwritten by the and the amount of loss retained by the Group Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance Group are reviewed on an individual risk, or may therefore also increase or reduce.
The companies against catastrophic losses, such contract, basis and through review of portfolio Group will alter its insurance and reinsurance as windstorm or earthquake, which may performance.
Claims arising are reserved exposures to take account of the change in impact more than one risk written by the client.
Each quarter the entire reinsurance availability in order to remain within This portfolio is a key part of the insurance risk portfolio of business is subject to a reserving the risk appetite guidelines.
Programmes are placed process whereby levels of paid and Sections A to E below describe the business on a layered or excess of loss basis.
Territorial outstanding advised but not paid claims are and the risks of Amlin London, Amlin UK, exposures, from a number of programmes, reviewed.
Potential future claims are assessed Anglo French Underwriters, Amlin Bermuda, are much higher, but are carefully recorded with a provision for incurred but not reported and Amlin Corporate Insurance.
and analysed through loss simulations or IBNR claims being made.
This provision is realistic disaster scenarios.
subject to review by senior executives and an A. Amlin London independent internal actuarial assessment is The geographic spread of all Amlin London Per risk property reinsurance is also written usually carried out by external actuaries or the classes is shown below: on an excess of loss basis but covers loss or in-house actuarial team to determine the damage to a single risk within the reinsureds Gross premium by geography adequacy of the provision.
This portfolio protects insureds and disciplined exercise is carried out to against large individual property losses and provide for claims notified, it is possible that will also be affected by large catastrophes.
2% known claims could develop and exceed the 4% 6% Proportional reinsurance covers a proportional 4% reserves carried.
Furthermore, there is 14% share of a reinsureds portfolio of business increased uncertainty in establishing an subject to payment of commission and or 10% 2% accurate provision for IBNR claims and there profit commission.
Almost all proportional 3% is a possibility that claims may arise which in reinsurance written by the Group in this class aggregate exceed the reserve provision is property business and risk exposure is established.
This is partly mitigated by the limited to US$7.5 million for any one risk.
reserving policy adopted by the Group which is to carry reserves with a margin in excess of The portfolio of Reinsurance business is the actuarial best estimate.
written with the aim of achieving territorial 55% diversification.
However, a severe catastrophe The review of claims arising may result in to a major economic zone in Europe, Japan, underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater Australasia or the USA is likely to result in an for an unexpectedly higher trend of claims overall loss to the portfolio prior to Africa 2% Oceania 3% advices or payments.
However, this may not Asia 6% South & Central America 2% retrocessional reinsurance.
be possible in a competitive market and Caribbean 4% UK 14% Europe 10% Other 4% underwriters may respond either by accepting A. ii Other reinsurance risks North America 55% business with lower expected profit margins or The Group also writes other reinsurance declining to renew policies and thus reducing classes which contribute diversified exposure income.
Also, there is a portfolio of risk already to the portfolio.
The main classes with the A. i Property reinsurance risks underwritten which cannot be re-priced until maximum sum insured lines are shown below: Reinsurance property classes renewal at the end of the policy period.
Aviation, marine and special risks 2009 Current 2009 Gross maximum Average The Group is exposed to the impact of large reinsurance classes premium line size line size catastrophe events such as windstorms, 2009 Current 2009 m m m Gross maximum Average earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure to premium line size line size Catastrophe such events is controlled and measured through m m m reinsurance loss modelling, but the accuracy of this exposure Aviation per programme 233 62 5.0 analysis is limited by the quality of data and the reinsurance effectiveness of the modelling.
The Groups Per risk property per programme 1 33 3.6 broad risk appetite guidelines are set out on reinsurance Marine page 47.
It is possible that a catastrophe event per programme 79 25 2.1 reinsurance exceeds the maximum expected event loss.
Proportional per programme 19 81 2.2 This is particularly the case for the direct reinsurance 46 5 1.0 property proportion of the loss exposure where Special risks 11 17 5.4 Notes: models are used to calculate a damage factor Notes: 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at representing the amount of damage expected a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at to exposed aggregate insured values.
Errors, of exchange changes may increase or reduce the a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate or incorrect assumptions, in the damage factor sterling limits.
of exchange changes may increase or reduce the calculation can result in incurred catastrophe sterling limits.
2 Maximum line size is after business written and event claims higher, or lower, than predicted ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin 2 Maximum line size is after business written and due to unforeseen circumstances or Bermuda Ltd. ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda Ltd. inadequacies in the models used.
As explained 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
on page 138 reinsurance is purchased to 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
protect against the impact of any individual or series of severe catastrophes.
However, the price and availability of such cover is variable 133 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 agreement, regularly monitoring performance improperly in trying to avoid contractual 3.
Risk disclosures continued and periodically carrying out underwriting visits obligations.
Such awards can, in exceptional The business writes a portfolio of aviation and or commissioning third party audits.
The circumstances, be much higher than the value and marine reinsurance risk which protects coverholder is incentivised to produce an of the insurance claim.
insurers against losses to their direct portfolios underwriting profit through the payments of of business.
This is written on an excess of A. v Accident and health, auto and profit commission.
However, with the day to loss basis.
special risks day underwriting not controlled by Amlin, there The Group also writes other property and The special risks account is mostly terrorism is a risk that coverholder underwriting or claim casualty classes which contribute diversified excess of loss reinsurance which is written decisions are made which would not have been exposure to the portfolio.
The main classes from all parts of the world and is written made by Amlin underwriters or claims staff.
with the maximum sum insured lines are without reinsurance protection.
The maximum value insured under the Binders shown below: class is currently limited to US$3 million at any A. iii Property insurance risks one location.
Property and casualty other classes Property classes 2009 Current 2009 2009 Current 2009 The property portfolio is also exposed to an Gross maximum Average Gross maximum Average above average frequency of individual fire, premium line size line size premium line size line size m m m m m m explosion or weather related claims.
The premium charged for the coverage given may Accident & Direct and not be sufficient to cover all claims made in health 32 31.2 facultative any year, particularly in a year in which there is property 98 21 2.8 Auto 30 30.4 an abnormal frequency of claims.
This account Binding Notes: is mainly situated in the USA and is therefore authorities 37 2 0.3 exposed to large catastrophe events such as 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency Notes: California earthquake and hurricane losses.
rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at A. iv US casualty risks the sterling limits.
a rate of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate The US casualty portfolio of business provides of exchange changes may increase or reduce the 2 Maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin insurance and reinsurance cover to individuals, sterling limits.
Bermuda Ltd. or companies, in order to indemnify them 2 Maximum line size is after business written and 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin against legal liability arising from their activities Bermuda Ltd. and actions or for incidents occurring on their The accident and health class is written 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
The account is currently written to through medical expense schemes in the USA a maximum liability of US$6 million on any and direct personal accident cover, or personal Property cover is provided to large one claim but average lines are US$0.8 million accident reinsurance, worldwide.
Medical commercial enterprises with high value on any one claim.
2009 gross premium was expense cover is subject to a high frequency locations and or many locations and also for 38 million.
of claim and significant medical cost inflation.
The perils covered Personal accident insurance and reinsurance include fire, flood, wind and earthquake The portfolio is made up of specialist general could be impacted by a single or series of damage.
Business interruption cover is also casualty, professional indemnity, medical accidents to high value insured individuals or provided for loss of earnings sustained due malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
by a multiple death and injury event such as to the perils and properties covered but may Small amounts of directors and officers liability an air crash or natural catastrophe.
also be extended to connected enterprises.
and auto liability are also written.
The class is Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis mostly written on a claims notified basis The auto class covers property damage only particularly where required by local regulation, responding to all claims made during a defined fire, theft and collision in the USA and property but nuclear and bio-chemical coverage is period except for small amounts of general damage and third party motor liability excluded in most territories.
liability business which may be written on a combined cover in other international territories.
losses occurring basis the policy responds to This class could be impacted by unexpected Direct and facultative property insurance is losses which occur during the period even if claim frequency, a multi vehicle event such as written for the full value of the risk, on a primary reported after the policy has expired.
a severe flood and also large bodily injury or excess of loss basis, through individual award claims emanating from an accident.
placements, or by way of delegated Claims from this class emanate from underwriting facilities given to coverholders professional error, negligence or an accident binding authorities.
Binding authority which causes injury, damage or financial loss.
arrangements delegate the day to day The account is vulnerable to a high frequency underwriting to underwriting agents working on of claims, but not individual large losses as the our behalf.
For these contracts, we are reliant cost to Amlin of any individual claim is small.
on a coverholder exercising underwriting Claims frequency may be impacted by a judgement on our behalf.
Coverholders have generic claim type which impacts many to have local regulatory approval, be Lloyds individuals and re insurance policies such as registered and also be approved by the Amlin poor housing design or bad medical practice.
For all binding The size of many individual claims is subject authorities facilities we receive a monthly or to the decisions arising from the US court quarterly bordereau which is checked by our system which can be higher than anticipated.
We control the underwriting There is also the potential for US courts to by setting clear authority levels for coverholders impose a bad faith judgement on insurers stipulated within the binding authority if it is deemed that the insurer has acted 134 www.
Shareholder information 201 A. vi Marine risks also some business interruption cover which catastrophe incident from a collision causing The Group writes a broad account of marine indemnifies companies for loss of production.
death of crew and passengers or an oil, or risks with maximum lines as follows: chemical, spill which could incur large cleanWar business includes aviation, marine and up costs.
Marine classes on land terrorism coverage and is exposed to 2009 Current 2009 single incidents or a series of losses arising A. vii Aviation risks Gross maximum Average from concerted action.
A small amount of The Group underwrites a direct and facultative premium line size line size political risk, confiscation and contract reinsurance account domiciled in most parts m m m frustration is written.
The portfolio is made up of the Hull 22 101.6 following classes with maximum lines.
Specie business consists of the insurance Cargo 33 174.1 against damage to or theft of fine art, the Aviation classes Energy 52 203.6 contents of vaults and other high value goods 2009 Current 2009 War and Gross maximum Average including jewellers block and cash in transit.
premium line size line size terrorism 28 17 7.8 The fine art may be shown at exhibitions m m m Specie 9 246.3 which have very high aggregate values at risk.
Airline hull & The class is therefore exposed to the potential Bloodstock liability 22 84 32.7 for a frequency of small claims and also large livestock 24 4 0.5 General aviation individual losses.
Some specie is written in Yacht hull hull & liability 3 57 18.3 catastrophe zones e. g. California.
and liability 29 5 1.0 Risk excess The bloodstock account protects for death, Liability 27 574.1 hull & liability 8 57 11.6 illness or injury to horses mainly in the UK but Notes: Airports liability 11 57 28.6 business from the USA, Australia and South 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate of Africa is also written.
This covers racing or Products 75020.2 exchange of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency eventing horses and breeding studs.
The Space hull & rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce average value insured is below 1 million but the sterling limits.
liability 54613.3 there is the potential for an aggregate loss, 2 Maximum line size is after business written and Notes: such as a stable fire, which could cause ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin 1 Limits are set in US dollars converted at a rate multiple claims.
Bermuda Ltd. of 1 US$1.5 and therefore currency rate of 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
exchange changes may increase or reduce the Crowe Livestock, a leading Lloyds sterling limits.
coverholder for the insurance of livestock, The hull and cargo account is worldwide, 2 Maximum line size is after business written and was acquired in November 2009.
This agency covering property damage to ships and loss, ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin writes a broad portfolio of protection for or damage, to a large variety of cargo or Bermuda Ltd. livestock and specialist products such as zoo goods in transit.
The hull account can include 3 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
animals, with a maximum line of any one machinery breakdown and the account written policy of 10 million.
The company also writes has historically been targeted towards lower The airline account is exposed to large claims employers liability cover for employees value tonnage, smaller brownwater vessels arising from property damage, death or injury livestock business up to a limit of 10 million.
In December 2009 the arising from aircraft accidents.
The domicile Again, an event affecting several animals employment of a new leading class of the airline and passengers has a notable across many policies such as disease could underwriter for larger bluewater ocean hull influence on the cost of claims: for example result in a loss significantly higher than this.
will result in the development of a book of US court awards are generally higher.
These accounts can Yacht business covers property damage and The general aviation account covers smaller be impacted by attritional claims of a small third party injury for small leisure boats and aircraft or cargo and covers owners or size as well as a single individual large claim.
The bulk of the account is smaller value operators against loss or damage and third The cargo account in particular could also be yachts in the UK and Europe, although there party injury.
The risk excess account is a book involved in a major natural catastrophe loss.
are a number of binders written by of general aviation reinsurance business In an economic recession, it is expected that coverholders elsewhere, such as Scandinavia, written to protect a small number of insurers premium income will fall from these areas as Canada and Australia.
There is an expectation against large general aviation claims.
trade reduces and hull values are impacted by of a large number of small claims, as average reduced freight rates.
This trend has occurred Airport liability insurance covers airport values are low in comparison to other claims in 2009 with reductions in the quantity and operators, refuellers and air traffic controllers written in the Group.
Third party liability yacht value of cargo shipments.
It is also possible against losses arising from injury caused by claims arise from injury or damage caused that claims frequency increases due to their activities or occurring on their premises.
by one of our policyholders to third parties.
increased economic pressures affecting fraud Product liability covers manufacturers against There is also the potential for a large and theft claims.
accidents arising from faulty parts or catastrophe loss such as a UK windstorm equipment, or poor servicing of aircraft.
Both where there are large aggregate sums insured The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig and airport and product liability coverage is written in coastal regions such as southern England.
construction policies which may be impacted on a losses occurring basis meaning that by large individual claims from construction The marine liability portfolio is written to claims advices can be made after the policy fault or property damage such as fire or protect ship-owners, harbours, charterers has expired.
Space insurance covers property explosion, but is also exposed to severe and energy companies against damage and liability during launch and the operation of catastrophe losses in the North Sea and Gulf or injury to third parties.
This includes the satellites whilst in orbit for a limited period, of Mexico.
The account includes control of potential for pollution damage and clean-up normally of one year.
well to limit loss of oil and avoid pollution and claims.
The account could suffer a large 135 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 Professional indemnity covers liability which executive fleets.
Risk disclosures continued may arise from services provided by the facilities for fleets involved in the transportation of The Aviation account is subject to both small assured, for example as a result of negligence hazardous waste.
There is also a UK agriculture and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life or error which may lead to financial or physical and a specialist private car account written.
or serious injury to high earning passengers or loss.
This includes, but is not limited to, third parties are subject to the ongoing inflation Claims frequency has improved in recent services from architects, engineers, surveyors, of court awards particularly in the US.
Large years due to car and road safety measures but advertising firms, medical professionals and accidents involving the potential death of 500 can fluctuate due to factors such as weather financial advisors and is written on a claims or more passengers are feasible and could conditions.
UK inflation is a key factor in made basis covering losses notified in the potentially result in a gross claim to the determining the size of motor claims.
business of more than the vertical reinsurance values affect the size of theft claims and for programme if, for example, two large aircraft Amlin UK package policies combine one physical damage claims size is linked to repair were to collide.
Space losses are generally large or more of the liability coverages, mainly costs.
Inflationary pressure on court awards single claim amounts caused by launch failure employers and public liability with motor within the UK and Irish legal systems impacts or operational failure in orbit.
The principal and or property damage protection.
Government intervention Aviation accounts are protected by a alone property protection is also within this such as liability award limit changes or reinsurance programme on both a risk sharing class, mainly on a 100% basis for small expense recoveries for government bodies, proportional and excess of loss basis.
The commercial and household properties.
The including the National Health Service, will also Group reinsurance arrangements are discussed gross line size was increased from 27 million impact claim size.
For the motor account, on page 138.
The space account is written with to 52 million in June 2009 reflecting the severe bodily injury and catastrophe damage risks shared with Amlin Bermuda but is not recruitment of a new underwriting team claims e. g. UK flood are limited through the protected by excess of loss reinsurance.
specialising in property owners business.
purchase of a reinsurance programme, the highest layer of which is unlimited.
B. Amlin UK The Group also writes a small account of B. i Non-motor risks financial institutions policies covering fidelity, Motor insurance is a highly competitive area Non-motor classes professional indemnity and directors and of insurance and pricing levels fluctuate.
2009 Current 2009 officers liability for companies providing Whilst underwriters accept business subject Gross maximum Average financial services.
The current maximum line to sufficient rates per vehicle, in a year where premium line size line size m m m is 6 million.
Approximately half of the income there is an unexpectedly high level of claims is from Western Europe financial institutions the total premium may not be sufficient to Employers with the balance spread broadly by territory.
There is also a risk that liability 13 27 10.0 Coverage is given on a claims made basis.
legal changes impact bodily injury payments Public products and result in a requirement to increase liability 9 12 4.2 The expected claims costs from these lines reserves for outstanding claims.
of business may be impacted by larger than Professional anticipated damage awards to injured parties C. Anglo French Underwriters indemnity 24 7 1.5 as well as an unforeseen increase in generic Syndicate 2001 also writes risks in France UK commercial claims such as industrial disease or other through Anglo French Underwriters SAS property package 31 52 0.5 health hazards.
It is expected that claims AFU.
Drawing its business from a large Financial frequency will increase during an economic network of brokers across France, AFU is able institutions downturn as unemployment leads to an to offer a wide range of insurance products fidelity and increase in action against employers and designed to respond to the needs of both liability 4 6 1.3 people are more likely to seek redress for third individuals and  Note: Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
party advice or behaviour which may have led corporate clients.
Whilst AFU s business is to financial loss or injury.
It is also possible situated predominantly in France it also The Group writes three classes of that many claims could arise under many includes some exposure in Spain.
It writes a predominantly UK liability.
The vast majority policies from a common cause such as diverse book of business including property, of the business emanates from the UK with financial advice or generic building defect.
The cargo, professional liability and specie through the balance mainly from Ireland and Canada.
financial institutions account could be affected a network of more than 1,350 independent Employers liability insurance protects by a major fraud or a series of related liability retail brokers.
As anticipated, the vast majority employers against accident or injury to claims arising from banking, investment activity, of risks bound by AFU have been written on employees.
This is written on a losses occurring stockbroking or other practices.
The property behalf of Syndicate 2001 in 2009 although basis covering events that occurred in the portfolio could sustain a large loss from the there continue to be a limited number of policy period even if they are not notified effects of a UK windstorm or flood event.
policies which do not involve Amlin.
The until after expiry for limits up to 27 million portfolio consists of the following classes B. ii UK motor insurance risks per employer.
with maximum and average line sizes: The Groups motor insurance risk is Public liability insurance provides coverage, predominantly UK business covering fire, theft, often written in conjunction with employers collision and third party property and bodily liability, for accident or injury occurring to injury liability.
2009 gross premium was clients, customers or another third party as a 81 million.
Under the requirements of UK law result of contact with the insureds personnel, third party liability coverage is unlimited, but property or products.
This is written on a matching reinsurance is purchased.
The losses occurring basis currently, for limits account is biased towards commercial clients up to 12 million per assured.
such as coach operators, haulage companies, commercial vehicle fleets and company 136 www.
Shareholder information 201 AFU classes Professional indemnity and financial guarantee Amlin Bermuda direct business risks 2009 Current 2009 insurance is provided to insurance and 2009 Current 2009 Gross Maximum Average Gross Maximum Average banking intermediaries as well as financial Premium line size Line Size Premium line size Line Size advisers, real estate agents and financial and m m m US$m US$m US$m investment consultants.
This is a multi-layered Property 23 552.6 Catastrophe package which responds to the particular reinsurance Marine 2 111.8 needs of several regulated professions which per programme 231 75 8.1 may require differing types of cover.
Specie 3 40.3 Proportional Professional AFU also offers insurance for events, including reinsurance 62 13 1.3 indemnity 3 3 0.7 cancellation cover, organisers liability, all risks Per risk property exhibition cover and all risks coverage on Note: Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
reinsurance equipment belonging to, hired by or installed In respect of property, AFU acts as both per programme 70 13 3.2 by the assured.
AFU also provides personal a leading underwriter and co-insurer for Special risks 11 40 3.4 accident insurance for professions involving industrial high hazard risks providing material risk and the practice of sporting activities Marine damage insurance for the industrial and which are deemed hazardous.
reinsurance 4 20 5.2 commercial premises of small and medium Accident & D. Amlin Bermuda sized enterprises.
AFU also provides a health 2 10 1.6 The geographic spread of all Amlin Bermuda comprehensive package, including liability Bloodstock 101.1 classes is shown below: cover for discotheques, bowling alleys, restaurants, bars and casinos.
Perils offered Casualty 1102.0 Gross premium by geography include fire, lightning and associated risks, Note: Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
electrical damage, water damage, storm, Amlin Bermudas direct business has strong tempest, hail, snow and glass breakage.
1% similarities to the portfolio of the Reinsurance Optional coverages include business 6% 12% 4% business unit of Syndicate 2001.
All of the interruption, indirect losses, theft from 3% business written emanates from London individuals and theft from break-ins.
Building 8% broker markets and is frequently seasoned insurance is also offered for owners who are business already underwritten by Syndicate not occupiers.
Risk balance is provided by a whole In the marine field, AFU provides yacht account quota share of Syndicate 2001.
This insurance which includes cover for damage, is further supplemented by a number of theft and liability as well as for the costs specific variable quota share treaties on shortof marine assistance and marine personal tail classes such as property and energy.
World-wide stock and transit 66% Property reinsurance is written through treaty insurance is also provided with All Risks arrangements on a proportional, individual risk coverage granted on a start to finish basis excess of loss, or catastrophe excess of loss from the point of supplier to the point of Africa 1% Oceania 3% basis.
The catastrophe reinsurance portfolio delivery.
Transit cover includes all periods Asia 6% South & Central America 1% is the largest class of insurance risk written when the goods are stocked, in whatever Caribbean 4% UK 12% Europe 8% Other 1% by Amlin Bermuda.
Exposures to each location and without any break in coverage.
North America 66% programme are currently limited to US$12.5 Jeweller s block cover is provided for high million per risk and US$75 million for any one value contents.
All risks coverage is given for catastrophe programme, with modelled stock within the premises, including for breakAmlin Bermuda was formed in December maximum event limits of US$330 million for in, hold-up, fire and water damage.
Cover is 2005 to write a short-tail portfolio of any one zone and US$360 million for losses also given for commercial retail premises such reinsurance business on a direct basis and to affecting more than one zone.
as gunsmiths, perfume and clothing shops reinsure part of the Syndicate 2001 portfolio.
The special risks account includes small and art galleries, including damage caused The direct written portfolio consists of the premium classes mostly relating to terrorism to art while on show at exhibitions and following classes with maximum line sizes reinsurance but also includes nuclear and damage to art kept in private residences.
and split by territory: contingency which is written in all parts of A comprehensive multi-risk product is provided the world.
for retailers which includes an extension for fire and water damage within the premises, The accident and health class is written liability coverage and the preservation of through medical expense schemes in the USA goodwill or business interruption following and provides personal accident reinsurance a loss.
Personal accident reinsurance could be impacted by a single or series of accidents to high value insured individuals or by a multiple death and injury event such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
137 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 professions and miscellaneous professions There is no guarantee that reinsurance 3.
Risk disclosures continued such as travel operators.
In Belgium, ACI are a coverage will be available to meet all potential To date the Bermuda subsidiary has written recognised leader in medical liability and general loss circumstances as, for very severe risks with limited protection of a reinsurance liability is written on a losses occurring form.
catastrophe losses, it is possible that the full programme and therefore it has higher net extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
retained exposures to individual risk losses or The commercial motor account is domestic Any loss amount which exceeds the catastrophe than the Syndicate currently bears.
company fleets including a large leasing and programme would be retained by the Group.
rental fleet written in the Netherlands and a E. Amlin Corporate Insurance It is also possible that a dispute could arise smaller portfolio in Belgium.
Over 70% of the In July 2009 Amlin acquired Fortis Corporate with a reinsurer which reduces the recovery book is cars, vans or commercial vehicles.
Insurance N. V. subsequently renamed Amlin made.
The reinsurance programme is bought There is a large underwriting agency book Corporate Insurance ACI, a leading commercial to cover the expected claims arising on the in the Netherlands.
insurer operating in the Benelux region.
However, it is possible for Captive business is written in Belgium as there to be a mismatch, or a gap in cover, ACI writes four main classes of business: fronting for captive reinsurers of large which would result in a higher than expected motor, liability, property and marine, mainly for industrial companies.
ACI retain small retained loss.
Exposures are amounts of these risks but receive a fronting predominantly in Belgium, the Netherlands and Many parts of the programme also have fee.
Careful analysis is carried out on captives France apart from marine transportation risks limited reinstatements and therefore the to minimise potential credit risk.
or where an insured has exposures overseas.
number of claims which may be recovered Reinsurance arrangements from second or subsequent major losses is ACI classes Syndicate 2001 purchases proportional limited.
It is possible for the programme to be 2009 Current 2009 Gross Maximum Average reinsurance to supplement line size and to exhausted by a series of losses in one annual Premium line size Line Size reduce exposure on individual risks, notably period and it may not be possible to purchase m m m for aviation and large property risks.
A part additional reinsurance at all or for an Property and of the premium ceded under such facilities acceptable price.
This would result in the engineering 35 50 7.2 is placed with Amlin Bermuda and, for risks Group bearing higher losses from further Marine 151 25 1.6 incepting during 2009, a separate proportional events occurring.
It should also be noted that facility is placed for the excess of loss the renewal date of the reinsurance Liability 21 25 0.6 reinsurance portfolio through a Special programmes does not necessarily correspond Fleet Motor 20 unlimited unlimited Purpose Syndicate at Lloyds: Syndicate 6106. to that of the business written.
Where Notes: Syndicate 2001 also purchases a number of business is not protected by risk attaching excess of loss reinsurances to protect itself reinsurance which provides coverage for 1 This analysis excludes captive companies where there is little or minimum retention of risks.
from severe frequency or size of losses.
The the duration of all the policies written this 2 Maximum linesize is shown after facultative structure of the programme and type of reinsurance protection could expire resulting reinsurance.
protection bought will vary from year to year in an increase in possible loss retained by 3 Gross premium represents business written since depending on the availability and price of cover.
Syndicate 2001 if renewal of the programme acquisition only is not achieved.
On large risks, individual facultative 4 Premium is stated gross of acquisition costs.
reinsurance may be bought which protects Amlin Bermuda purchased a limited amount of ACIs property account is mainly large against a loss to that specific risk.
catastrophe excess of loss protection in 2009. schedules of properties e. g. for municipalities Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance ACI buys a comprehensive programme for written on a co-insurance basis in the is purchased for each class of business.
Specific cover is Netherlands and larger commercial industrial The amount of cover bought depends upon placed for engineering, personal accident, clients in Belgium and France.
The company is the line size written for each class.
The motor, liability, energy and builders risks.
Overseas exposure deductibles or amounts borne prior to A general programme is placed for the is written mainly from the large commercial recovery vary from class to class as do the remaining marine exposures and the property industrial portfolio where there are client amounts of co-reinsurance or unplaced account is protected by both per risk and operations overseas.
Specific programmes are catastrophe excess of loss.
is contractors all risks, machinery breakdown purchased to deal with large individual risk and some computer equipment.
Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS losses, such as fire or large energy losses, analysis The marine portfolio covers general cargo, and these programmes may be combined The Group has a defined event risk appetite a large commodities book for Belgian trading at a higher level into a general programme which determines the maximum net loss to corporations, hull, land equipment, builders for larger losses.
which the Group intends to limit its exposure risk where ACI are a recognised market The combined claims to Syndicate 2001 from with respect to major modelled catastrophe leader, inland hull and large yachts.
This several losses which aggregate in a single event scenarios.
Currently these are a portfolio is being re-underwritten due to high catastrophe event are protected by maximum of 180 million for Syndicate 2001 loss ratios in some sub-classes and the mix catastrophe cover.
A separate excess of and US$330 million for any one zone or of business is therefore likely to change.
loss on excess of loss programme may be US$360 million for a multi-zonal loss for Amlin The non-marine liability portfolio in the purchased to protect the excess of loss Bermuda.
ACI operates with a maximum event Netherlands is professional indemnity and reinsurance portfolio against such losses.
limit of 30 million for the modelled European general liability written on a claims-made Since 2006, the amount of excess of loss storm event.
basis, particularly for property related reinsurance purchased is lower and only These maximum losses are expected only responds to losses in excess of US$60 million.
to be incurred in extreme events with an 138 www.
Shareholder information 201 estimated occurrence probability of less than Process and methodology similar statistics based on the date of premium 1 in 50 years estimated for the natural peril or The reserving process commences with the receipt and claim advice rather than policy elemental losses.
The Group also adopts risk proper recording and reporting of claims inception.
Each class triangulation is also appetite maximum net limits for a number of information which consists of paid and notified independently analysed by either the internal other non-elemental scenarios, including or outstanding claims.
For our London market actuarial team or appointed actuarial aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
business information is received through consultants using actuarial software as Xchanging the London market bureau and, appropriate.
The aim of the actuarial exercise The risk appetite policy recognises that there in the case of Amlin UK business, service is to produce best estimate ultimate premium may be circumstances in which the net event companies, ACI and Amlin Bermuda, directly and claims amounts which can be compared limit could be exceeded.
Such circumstances from brokers and policyholders.
Claims to the figures proposed by divisional include changes in rates of exchange, non records are maintained for each class by the management.
Amlin London, Amlin UK and renewal or delay in renewal of reinsurance underwriting year in which the policy incepts.
AFU meetings are held in which executive protection, reinsurance security failure, or For notified or outstanding claims, a case management, actuarial staff and business regulatory and legal requirements.
reserve is established based on the views management discuss claims issues and A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures is of underwriting management and claims analyse the proposed and independently carried out every quarter and measured against managers, using external legal or expert generated reserves to conclude the provision risk appetite.
The following assumptions and advice where appropriate.
This reserve is to be carried.
procedures are used in the process: expected to be sufficient to meet the claim For Amlin Bermuda, which commenced payment when it is finally determined.
For The data used reflects the information underwriting in 2005, historical statistics for some classes of business, particularly liability supplied to the Group by insureds and Syndicate 2001s relevant classes of business business, settlement may be several years ceding companies.
This may prove to be have been used as a guide for actuarial review after the initial notification of the claim, as it incomplete, inaccurate or could develop and the review discussion is conducted in may be subject to complexities or court during the policy period: conference or by email correspondence.
For claims received from Xchanging, The exposures are modelled using the market reserve is generally set by the lead The process for determining ACI reserves a mixture of stochastic models and underwriter, but there are circumstances on differs slightly in that the ACI actuarial team underwriter input to arrive at damage larger claims where Amlin will post higher produces full data on an accident year basis factors these factors are then applied reserves than those notified.
for independent review by external actuaries.
to the assumed aggregate exposure The external actuaries produce an To establish a provision for IBNR claims, to produce gross loss estimates.
The independent best estimate by class of the underwriting and claims teams use their damage factors may prove to be business and generate a comparison with experience and knowledge of the class of inadequate: ACIs proposed carried reserves.
Proposed business to estimate the potential future reserves are generated according to a set The reinsurance programme as purchased development of each class for every formulaic process for the earning of premiums is applied a provision for reinsurer underwriting year.
The development period and release of IBNR.
These proposed reserves counterparty failure is included but may varies by class, by method of acceptance and are reviewed by management.
prove to be inadequate: and is also determined by the deductible of each policy written.
For casualty business, the policy The full reserving submission, including the Reinstatement premiums both payable form will determine whether claims can be external actuarial report, is reviewed and receivable are included.
made on a claims made as advised or as a separately by the Group actuarial team and There is no guarantee that the assumptions losses occurring determined by date of loss carried reserves are agreed by the ACI Board.
and techniques deployed in calculating these basis.
This has a significant impact on the Areas of uncertainty event loss estimate figures are accurate.
reporting period in which claims can be notified.
The reserves established can be more or less Furthermore, there could also be an In setting the IBNR provision estimates are than adequate to meet eventual claims arising.
unmodelled loss which exceeds these figures.
made for the ultimate premium and ultimate The level of uncertainty varies significantly The likelihood of such a catastrophe is gross claims value for each underwriting year.
from class to class but can arise from considered to be remote, but the most severe Allowance is then made for anticipated inadequate case reserves for known large scenarios modelled are simulated events and reinsurance recoveries to reach a net claim losses and catastrophes or from inadequate these simulations could prove to be unreliable.
Reinsurance recoveries are calculated provision for IBNR.
The impact on profit for outstanding and IBNR claims, sometimes Insurance liabilities and reinsurance before tax of a - 1% variation in the total net through the use of historical recovery rates or assets: Calculation of incurred but not claims reserves would be - 20.1 million statistical projections, and provisions are made reported IBNR and claims development 2008: 13.3 million.
as appropriate for bad debt or possible Amlin adopts a rigorous process in the disputes.
The component of ultimate IBNR Large loss case reserves are determined calculation of an adequate provision for provision estimates and reinsurance recoveries through careful analysis of the individual claim, insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is that relates to future events occurring to the often with the advice of legal advisers.
Liability to establish reserves which are expected to be existing portfolio is removed in order to reflect claims arising from events such as the at least adequate and that there is consistency GAAP accounting practice.
11 September 2001 terrorist attacks in the US from year to year.
Therefore, the level of are examples of cases where there continues reserves are set at a level above the actuarial To assist with the process of determining the to be some uncertainty over the eventual value best estimate position.
However, there is a reserves, triangulation statistics for each class of claims.
risk that, due to unforeseen circumstances, are produced which show the historical the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet development of premium, as well as paid and insurance claim liabilities reported in future incurred losses, for each underwriting year, years on policy periods which have expired.
from inception to the date of review.
ACI has 139 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 ratio and the distribution of results around it.
Risk disclosures continued The model explicitly recognises diversification Property catastrophe claims, such as Underwriting risk 559 credit, since class results are not all strongly earthquake or hurricane losses, can take Reserving risk 113 correlated and thus individual classes are several months, or years, to develop as Credit reinsurance unlikely all to produce losses or profits in the adjusters visit damaged property and agree counterparty risk 42 same year.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of claim valuations.
Until all the claims are settled Investment market risk 26 predicting the key drivers of business it requires an analysis of the area damaged, performance, including in particular claims contracts exposed and the use of models to Liquidity risk 6 levels, any individual simulation of the model simulate the loss against the portfolio of Discounting credit 33 viewed in isolation cannot be relied upon as exposure in order to arrive at an estimate of Diversified result 661 an accurate forecast.
However, the output ultimate loss to the Group.
There is uncertainty from many thousands of simulated results can Notes: over the adequacy of information and provide a picture of the possible distribution modelling of major losses for a period of 1 All figures are based on business plan forecasts of insurance business results.
This output is which are currently under review for changes in several months after a catastrophe loss.
the trading environment, interest rate outlook and useful in developing an understanding of the Account should also be taken of factors movements in rates of exchange.
losses which may be borne by the business which may influence the size of claims such 2 These figures are derived from Amlins Group at varying levels of probability.
as increased inflation or a change in law.
DFA model and based on data as at the end of Q4 2009.
There are a large number of uncertainties and The long-tail liability classes, for which a large difficulties in achieving accurate results from IBNR has to be established, represent the 3 Excluding any additional capital provision for operational risk.
Some of the key issues are: most difficult classes to reserve because claims are notified and settled several years 4 No dividend or tax is considered.
The model is based on a best estimate after the expiry of the policy concerned.
This is 5 Currency risk is not modelled explicitly.
view of business volumes and rate particularly the case for US liability written on expectations, which may not be borne 6 Non-sterling amounts have been converted at a losses occurring basis.
market rates of exchange as at 2009 Q4 out in practice: US$1.61: C$1.69: 1.13 The use of historical development data, A significant change in the portfolio of 7 Figures include an allowance for investment adjusted for known changes to wordings or business could result in the past not being returns generated on assets backing the the claims environment, is fundamental to insurance liabilities i. e. discounting.
The a reliable guide to the future: reserving these classes.
It is used in discounting credit shown represents the release Changing external environmental factors from the balance sheet by discounting the mean conjunction with the advice of lawyers and third best estimate reserves.
may not be assessed accurately: party claims adjusters on material single claims.
8 Investment income includes Group corporate Model risk may be significant in such The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance surplus assets.
Investment risk after a complex and developing discipline: programme is an uncertain exercise as there diversification remains positive since at around the 1 in 200 level total investment income on both is limited knowledge of the size or number of Key assumptions over levels of correlation surplus and technical assets exceeds the future claims advices.
The assumption over between classes may over time prove to investment income implicitly assumed via future reinsurance recoveries may be incorrect discounting on the technical assets alone.
be incorrect: and and unforeseen disputes could arise which 9 No credit has been taken for carried reserve Catastrophe model inputs, which would reduce recoveries made.
estimate the severity and frequency Dynamic financial analysis DFA of large catastrophes on the portfolio, modelling of risk may be incorrect.
To improve our risk management capability, The result reproduced in the table above and our assessment of capital requirements, right represents the modelled loss sustained Amlin has developed a stochastic model to by the business from a single 1 in 200 bad analyse the potential performance of the year i. e. at the 0.5 percentile.
A specific model is is the calculation benchmark required by the currently being developed for ACI.
The output FSA and Lloyds.
However, it does not from the model includes a distribution of represent the level of capital required for Amlin outcomes from reserves for prior written to support current and expected business liabilities, investment performance, and new levels, which should be considered over a business underwriting performance.
The result longer period of modelling.
Furthermore, Amlin is a combined view of the expected best is required to carry higher levels of capital estimate mean result and the range of which are sufficient in the eyes of rating possibilities around it.
This analysis includes The model requires the input of a large our initial modelling of the Group including the number of explicit parameters.
Those inputs ACI portfolio of assets and liabilities.
The are based on many different sources of paramatisation of the ACI portfolio is at an information including detailed historical data early stage and therefore this figure will on premium and claims, forecast income develop as our understanding improves.
and exposures, estimated rating levels and catastrophe loss data from proprietary models applied to Amlins portfolio.
It enables projection of an estimated mean ultimate loss 140 www.
Shareholder information 201 Premium development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimate of gross written premium for the consolidated Group excluding ACI, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Anglo French Underwriters and Amlin Bermuda after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimate made.
Tables for Amlin Corporate Insurance have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared excluding the effect of intra-group reinsurance arrangements.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2009 closing exchange rates to aid comparability.
Risk disclosures continued Amlin UK Gross written premium 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m m m m m m At end of underwriting year 198.3 171.6 156.5 135.9 130.4 137.0 176.8 One year later 197.4 184.7 164.8 151.7 146.9 155.5 Two years later 208.3 193.3 172.3 152.3 147.6 Three years later 208.8 193.3 172.4 152.2 Four years later 208.8 193.3 172.3 Five years later 208.8 193.3 Six years later 209.1 Current ultimate gross written premium 209.1 193.3 172.3 152.2 147.6 157.6 192.8 Gross earned premium 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 m m m m m m m Underwriting year At end of underwriting year 112.9 90.0 80.6 72.5 67.6 68.4 87.6 One year later 190.1 177.5 158.5 147.1 140.1 146.9 Two years later 208.3 193.3 172.3 152.3 147.6 Three years later 208.8 193.3 172.4 152.2 Four years later 208.8 193.3 172.3 Five years later 208.8 193.3 Six years later 209.1 Anglo French Underwriters Gross written premium 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m At end of underwriting year 0.8 27.0 One year later 0.8 Current ultimate gross written premium 0.8 27.0 Gross earned premium 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m At end of underwriting year 0.8 20.8 One year later 0.8 Business written prior to the acquisition of Anglo French Underwriters in 2008, ceded to Syndicate 2001, is included in the Amlin London table.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin Corporate Insurance Gross written premium 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Accident year m m m m m m m At end of accident year 459.6 499.3 519.4 533.3 586.0 680.8 632.5 One year later 459.6 499.3 519.4 533.3 586.0 680.8 Two years later 459.6 499.3 519.4 533.3 586.0 Three years later 459.6 499.3 519.4 533.3 Four years later 459.6 499.3 519.4 Five years later 459.6 499.3 Six years later 459.6 Current ultimate gross written premium 459.6 499.3 519.4 533.3 586.0 680.8 632.5 Gross earned premium 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Accident year m m m m m m m At end of accident year 454.1 489.6 519.0 528.6 564.1 660.9 663.0 One year later 454.1 489.6 519.0 528.6 564.1 660.9 Two years later 454.1 489.6 519.0 528.6 564.1 Three years later 454.1 489.6 519.0 528.6 Four years later 454.1 489.6 519.0 Five years later 454.1 489.6 Six years later 454.1 Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding ACI, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Anglo French Underwriters and Amlin Bermuda after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
All tables are prepared excluding the effect of intra-group reinsurance arrangements and are prepared on an undiscounted basis.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2009 exchange rates to aid comparability.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin UK Gross basis 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m m m m m m Current ultimate gross written premium 209.1 193.3 172.3 152.2 147.6 157.6 192.8 Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 146.6 127.5 116.3 103.9 102.4 119.1 138.0 One year later 131.3 113.5 112.2 108.0 103.8 125.8 Two years later 103.6 105.9 104.3 103.2 103.5 Three years later 97.7 92.8 90.8 96.5 Four years later 97.9 88.3 90.8 Five years later 88.5 88.3 Six years later 80.9 Cumulative payments 70.9 71.3 66.8 48.4 42.0 36.6 12.9 Estimated balance to pay 10.0 17.0 24.0 48.1 61.5 89.2 125.1 Net basis 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m m m m m m Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 127.3 112.0 105.2 95.8 95.6 105.3 131.0 One year later 111.1 103.1 101.6 99.7 93.3 112.2 Two years later 93.4 94.6 98.4 96.8 92.4 Three years later 89.1 89.1 89.3 91.0 Four years later 89.2 84.9 89.3 Five years later 81.4 84.9 Six years later 75.3 Cumulative payments 66.2 69.8 66.8 47.8 41.7 36.4 12.9 Estimated balance to pay 9.1 15.1 22.5 43.2 50.7 75.8 118.1 Anglo French Underwriters Gross basis 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m Current ultimate gross written premium 0.8 27.0 Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 0.4 15.2 One year later 0.4 Cumulative payments 0.4 4.0 Estimated balance to pay 0.0 11.2 Net basis 2008 2009 Underwriting year m m Estimate of cumulative claims at end of underwriting year 0.4 15.2 One year later 0.4 Cumulative payments 0.4 4.0 Estimated balance to pay 0.0 11.2 Business written prior to the acquisition of Anglo French Underwriters in 2008, ceded to Syndicate 2001, is included in the Amlin London table.
145 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Shareholder information 201 3.2 Financial investment risk disclosures Market risk Risk management The following section describes Amlins investment risk management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
The Group has two main categories of assets: Underwriting assets.
These are the premiums received and held to meet future insurance claims.
These are the capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital and surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance Amlin manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
These frameworks determine investment policy and the management of investment risk.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
The Boards delegate responsibility for the day to day management of the investments to the Investment Management Executive.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief Investment Officer.
They meet at least monthly to determine investment tactics, to ensure that asset allocation is appropriate for current market conditions and is in accordance with the investment frameworks.
The Investment Management Executive appoints and monitors the external investment managers and the custodians that are responsible for the safekeeping of the assets.
The Investment Advisory Panel, which consists of external investment professionals as well as members of the Investment Management Executive, meets quarterly.
The Panel provides challenge to the Groups view of future economic activity and asset class performance.
In addition, Group Compliance and external lawyers provide advice on investment regulations.
Risk tolerance The investment process is formulated from the risk tolerance which is determined by reference to factors such as the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flows.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
However, the investment risk tolerance will never be set to such a level as to undermine the Groups credit ratings.
During 2009 a bespoke investment risk model has been developed.
Investment risk is now independently monitored, using this model, by the Risk Assessment and Monitoring department.
The Head of Investment Risk reports regularly to the Investment Management Executive and to the Risk Committee.
Strategic benchmarks Strategic benchmarks are set for the neutral asset allocation taking account of the risk tolerance.
The expected timescale for future cash flows in each currency is calculated by our Group Actuarial team.
These durations form the basis for the strategic benchmarks for the underwriting assets against which the assets are invested.
Due to the short-tail nature of the Bermudian operations the underwriting assets are currently held in AAA rated stable net asset value liquidity funds.
1 The strategic benchmarks for capital assets are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model, to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance and to ensure that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
Tactical ranges around these strategic benchmarks provide sufficient flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Investment management 2 Specialist external investment managers are used to manage each asset class on a segregated, pooled or commingled basis.
For regulatory reasons, the Corporation of Lloyds manages overseas regulatory deposits in commingled funds.
Otherwise, manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that the managers will add value to the funds over the medium to long term.
Investment guidelines are set for each manager to ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within these guidelines.
The managers are monitored on an ongoing basis.
1 VaR is a statistical measure, which calculates the possible loss over a year, in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
2 Segregated funds are managed separately for Amlin.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which Amlin and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
147 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued The managers as at 31 December 2009 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Management US dollar bonds AG Insurance Euro bonds and property funds ING Real Estate Global property manager of managers Insight Investment Management Sterling and Euro bonds THS Partners Global equities Wellington Management International Ltd US and Canadian dollar bonds Pooled vehicles BlackRock Inc. Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquidity funds BlueBay Asset Management Euro bonds Crdit Agricole Asset Management Euro bonds Fortis Investments Netherlands N. V. Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquidity funds Goldman Sachs Asset Management Sterling, Euro and US dollar liquidity funds and LIBOR plus fund HSBC Asset Management US dollar liquidity funds Insight Investment Management Sterling liquidity fund JP Morgan Asset Management US dollar liquidity funds Leadenhall Capital Partners Insurance linked securities PIMCO Sterling and US dollar bonds Western Asset Management US dollar liquidity fund Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, South African and Japanese bonds Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian and US dollar liquid funds The funds under management with each manager are shown below: AG Corporation Goldman Leadenhall Aberdeen AEGON Insurance BlackRock BlueBay CAAM of Lloyds Fortis Sachs HSBC ING Insight JPMorgan Capital PIMCO THS UBS Wellington Western Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Total as at 31 December 356.3 432.9 35.1 108.4 61.9 70.9 24.1516.8 91.8 74.2974.4 41.9 67.5569.3184.3 28.0 423.1 11.24,072.1 2009 8.7 10.6 0.9 2.7 1.5 1.7 0.6 12.7 2.3 1.8 23.9 1.0 1.7 14.0 4.5 0.7 10.4 0.3 100.0 % Total as at 31 December 2008 405.4 113.6 87.6 71.2 370.7105.2 94.7438.7210.5 23.9 93.7228.2 24.2 430.5 187.12,885.2 % 14.1 3.9 3.0 2.5 12.9 3.6 3.3 15.2 7.3 0.8 3.2 7.9 0.8 15.0 6.5 100.0 148 www.
Shareholder information 201 Asset allocation The analysis in this section covers the investments for which Amlin has direct responsibility together with 70.9 million 2008: 71.2 million of overseas regulatory deposits managed by the Corporation of Lloyds on Amlins behalf in commingled funds.
The total value of investments in the following tables is reconciled to note 17 financial investments as follows: 2009 2008 m m Net financial investments per note 17 3,965.0 2,868.1 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts: Accrued income 31.1 16.1 Net unsettled payables for investments sold 5.2 15.9 Net assets of operations classified as held for sale 63.7 Deposits with credit institutions 55.0 Assets not analysed in the investment risk tables that follow: Liquid investments 12.8 10.7 Unlisted equities 8.9 8.6 Spread syndicates 4.3 3.8 Derivative hedging instruments 11.5 40.0 Total investments in asset allocation tables 4,072.1 2,885.2 149 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued The asset allocation of the Groups investments is set out below.
Pooled vehicles held at 31 December 2009 are bond funds of which 51.5% were government agency bonds, 20.5% were corporate bonds, 9.7% were mortgage backed and asset backed securities and the remaining 18.3% was held in cash.
Shareholder information 201 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Underwriting Underwriting assets Capital Total assets Capital Total % % % % % % Global equities 10.9 4.1 12.8 6.6 Bonds Government securities 30.5 27.0 29.2 39.5 22.3 30.6 Government index-linked securities 0.7 0.4 0.8 0.4 Government agencies guaranteed 6.6 0.2 4.2 11.7 0.6 6.0 Supranational 2.3 1.5 2.5 1.2 Asset backed securities Home Equity 0.6 0.2 0.3 1.2 0.8 Asset backed securities Autos 1.3 1.1 1.3 2.6 4.0 3.3 Asset backed securities Cards 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.1 Asset backed securities Other 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.4 Mortgage backed securities Prime 3.9 2.3 3.3 4.7 2.7 3.7 Mortgage backed securities Alt A 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Mortgage backed securities Subprime 0.1 Corporate bonds Basic Resources Materials 0.1 Corporate bonds Consumer Goods 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Corporate bonds Consumer Services 0.5 0.2 1.2 0.9 1.1 Corporate bonds Financials 11.7 2.9 8.4 8.2 1.6 4.8 Corporate bonds Healthcare 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.1 Corporate bonds Industrials 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.6 Corporate bonds Oil & Gas 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 Corporate bonds Technology 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.3 Corporate bonds Telecoms 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.4 Corporate bonds Utilities 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Pooled vehicles 21.1 35.3 26.4 7.2 8.6 7.9 Insurance linked securities 0.1 4.2 1.6 1.5 0.8 81.2 75.8 79.1 81.2 46.3 63.1 Property funds 8.2 3.1 5.6 2.9 Other liquid investments Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 18.8 5.1 13.7 18.8 35.3 27.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The industry and geographical splits were as follows: Global equities 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Total Total Total Total Industry % % Region % % Oil & Gas 13.6 12.5 United Kingdom 20.8 12.0 Basic Materials 2.1 5.0 USA and Canada 23.9 17.1 Industrials 10.9 9.5 Europe excluding United Kingdom 43.8 46.7 Consumer Goods and Services 28.3 29.1 Far East 11.5 22.9 Health Care 6.7 5.5 Emerging markets 1.3 Telecommunications 12.4 15.2 Utilities 2.4 4.0 Financials 20.9 16.7 Technology 2.7 2.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 151 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued Corporate bonds 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 2009 2008 Total Total Total Total Industry % % Region % % Oil & Gas 1.0 2.7 United Kingdom 9.4 17.7 Basic Materials 0.5 USA and Canada 48.1 65.6 Industrials 5.4 5.3 Europe excluding United Kingdom 37.8 14.9 Consumer Goods and Services 3.5 10.2 Far East 2.7 1.3 Health Care 2.1 0.4 Emerging markets 2.0 0.5 Miscellaneous 0.1 Government 0.5 Mortgage Backed Securities 0.2 Telecommunications 1.8 3.8 Utilities 1.9 0.6 Financials 82.5 74.2 Technology 1.0 2.3 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note: The tables by industry and location include 102.9 million 2008: 81.3 million of corporate bonds with government guarantees.
Valuation risk Amlins earnings are directly affected by changes in the valuations of the investments held in the portfolios.
These valuations vary according to the movements in the underlying markets.
Factors affecting markets include changes in the economic and political environment, risk appetites, liquidity, interest rates and exchange rates.
These factors have an impact on Amlins investments and are taken into consideration when setting strategic benchmarks and tactical asset allocation.
The price of holdings can also vary due to specific risks, such as the corporate strategy and companies balance sheet structure, which may impact the value of individual equity and corporate bond holdings.
This is mitigated by holding diversified portfolios, as specified in the investment guidelines given to the fund managers.
These guidelines limit the exposure to any one company, which also mitigates credit risk.
In addition, the equity mandate limits the exposure to any one geographic region or industrial sector and the bond mandates limit the overall exposure to non-government holdings.
Group assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the custodians whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual audits.
In accordance with their pricing policy, prices are sourced from two market recognised pricing vendor sources including: FT Interactive, Bloomberg and Reuters.
These pricing sources use closing trades, or, where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These prices are reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
Mark to market valuations for over the counter derivatives are supplied by the custodian and checked to the relevant counterparty and Bloomberg.
Property funds are based on the most recent price available, which in some instances may be a quarter in arrears.
Where a property transaction has taken place the transaction price is used if it is the most recent price available.
As an additional check, where available, prices as at 31 December 2009 have been verified by Amlin using available quoted prices on Bloomberg to verify that the prices used are a good estimation for fair value.
A month to month price check was completed to ensure that any stale prices, defined as prices which are one month old or more, are identified and investigated.
As at 31 December 2009 no stale prices were identified.
Further details on the fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are included in note 3.3.
Interest rate risk 3 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
The value of Amlins bond holdings is therefore subject to fluctuation as bond 4 yields rise and fall.
If yields fall the capital value will rise, and visa versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater its price volatility.
Typically, the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings at year end are shown below.
Shareholder information 201 The duration of underwriting assets is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise and therefore capital values fall.
Due to the inherently short-tail nature of the Bermudian reinsurance exposures, these underwriting assets are all held in liquidity funds.
The durations of the bond and cash portfolios for the underwriting assets of Syndicate 2001 and ACI at year end were as follows: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Underwriting assets Years Years Years Years Sterling 2.4 3.2 2.5 3.2 US dollars 2.0 3.2 3.4 3.1 Euro 3.1 3.1 4.0 4.6 Canadian dollars 2.2 3.8 3.0 4.0 Note: The table above includes pooled investments.
The asset durations above are calculated by the custodian.
Some differences occur between custodian durations and those of fund managers due to the use of different prepayment assumptions.
As an additional check, where available, durations as at 31 December 2009 have been verified by Amlin using Bloomberg data.
In all instances the duration differences are within the ranges permitted by the investment guidelines.
This limits the underwriting foreign exchange rate risk.
However, foreign exchange exposure does arise when business is written in non-base currencies.
These transactions are converted into Sterling, Euro, or US dollars depending where the business is written at the prevailing spot rate once the premium is received.
Consequently, there is exposure to currency movements between the exposure being written and the premium being converted.
Payments in non-base currencies are converted back into the underlying currency at the time a claim is to be settled, therefore Amlin is exposed to exchange rate risk between the claim being made and the settlement being paid.
Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-Sterling profits or losses are converted into Sterling.
For Amlins UK operations, it is policy to mitigate foreign exchange risk by systematically converting non-Sterling profits into Sterling.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes, a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but we seek to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
This approach avoids the inherent dangers of lumpier sales.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
3 The yield is the rate of return paid if a security is held to maturity.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
4 The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
153 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued The Groups monetary assets and liabilities by currency are presented in the table below.
These were transacted with banks with a short-term rating of at least A1 and are marked to market in investment valuations.
The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk as a result of the translation of the Group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency of the Group which is Sterling.
In particular, as Amlin reports its financial statements in Sterling, it is subject to foreign exchange risk due to the impact of changes in the Sterling US dollar exchange rate on the converted Sterling value of Amlin Bermuda Ltds US dollar net assets, and changes in the Sterling Euro exchange rate on the converted sterling value of Amlin Corporate Insurances Euro net assets.
At 31 December 2009 these amounted to US$1,580.6 million and 316.6 million 2008: US$1,389.5 million and nil.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on investments in overseas subsidiaries are taken directly to reserves in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The loss taken to reserves for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 92.8 million 2008: 260.8 million gain.
This reflects the movement in the US dollar rate from 1.46 at the start of the year to 1.61 at the balance sheet date and the movement in the Euro rate from 1.16 at acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance to 1.13 at the balance sheet date.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, the Group adopts a policy of hedging up to 50% of the net currency exposure resulting from Amlin Bermuda Ltd and Amlin Corporate Insurances capital assets.
Hedges in the form of options were accounted for as hedges of net investment in overseas subsidiaries in line with the hedge accounting rules of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement such that all realised and unrealised fair value gains and losses on the hedging instruments are taken to reserves to match the underlying movement in the valuation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries.
At the year end hedges were in place for US$706 million and 175 million.
These were in the form of long Sterling calls US dollar puts funded by short Sterling puts US dollar calls and long Sterling calls Euro puts funded by short Sterling puts Euro calls.
The net valuation of these trades was 7.0 million asset 2008: 54.7 million liability as at the year end.
The net accumulated realised and unrealised gain from hedging options recognised in reserves was 29.3 million 2008: 74.7 million loss as at the year end.
The Group is also subject to foreign exchange risk as a result of a US dollar loan from Amlin Bermuda Ltd to Amlin plc for US$169 million at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: US$ nil.
The resulting exposure to Sterling US dollar exchange rate movements is fully hedged.
The hedges are in the form of long Sterling puts US dollar calls funded by short Sterling calls US dollar puts.
The valuation of these trades as at the year end was 1.6 million 31 December 2008: nil.
If the US dollar Sterling exchange rate were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in a 2.7 million foreign exchange gain 2.4 million loss in the Group income statement at 31 December 2009.
If the Euro Sterling exchange rate were to deteriorate improve by 10%, the movement in the net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding overseas subsidiaries, would result in a 4.1 million foreign exchange gain 3.8 million loss in the Group income statement at 31 December 2009.
Shareholder information 201 In relation to translation of overseas subsidiaries, the same exchange rate improvement would result in a 71.0 million decrease in exchange gains through consolidated reserves.
This decrease would be offset by a valuation gain of 38.4 million on the hedges in place.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 98.0 million exchange gain through consolidated reserves.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 32.1 million on the hedges in place.
Liquidity risk It is important to ensure that claims are paid as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis.
Buffers of liquid assets are also held in excess of the immediate requirements to reduce the risk of being forced sellers of any of our assets, which may result in prices below fair value being realised, especially in periods of below normal investment market liquidity.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of cash and debt securities exposed to market risk and foreign exchange risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts as of 31 December 2009: Contractual cash flows undiscounted As at 31 December 2009 No stated Carrying Financial assets maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Shares and other variable yield securities 153.1 14.2 167.3 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,139.8 310.4 711.5 771.6 523.1 3,221.8 Property funds 118.8 6.9 125.7 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 555.9 1.4 557.3 Derivative financial instruments, net 11.5 11.5 Total 1,979.1 332.9 711.5 771.6 523.1 4,083.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying Insurance liabilities maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance contracts 945.2 862.3 300.5 362.7 2,431.4 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 159.6 139.5 58.0 70.3 421.1 Total 785.6 722.8 242.5 292.4 2,010.3 Difference in contractual cash flows 1,979.1 452.7 11.3 529.1 230.7 2,073.3 Contractual cash flows undiscounted As at 31 December 2008 No stated Carrying Financial assets maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Shares and other variable yield securities 274.3 274.3 Debt and other fixed income securities 228.1 82.9 649.2 497.3 363.5 1,821.0 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 789.9 789.9 Total 1,292.3 82.9 649.2 497.3 363.5 2,885.2 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying Insurance liabilities Maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance contracts 781.8 521.7 218.9 170.4 1,692.8 Less assets arising from reinsurance contracts held 145.3 120.8 45.3 49.4 360.8 Total 636.5 400.9 173.6 121.0 1,332.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 1,292.3 553.6 248.3 323.7 242.5 1,553.2 Derivative financial instruments are included in the contractual cash flows undiscounted for financial assets at 31 December 2009 following the amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures as noted in the accounting policies.
No retrospective application is required.
Liquidity, in the event of a major disaster, is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
In addition, prearranged revolving credit facilities are available from bank facilities note 27.
If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the capital assets.
155 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to loss if a counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations, including failure to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk could therefore have an impact upon the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
Amlin is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance debtors.
As well as actual failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers ability to perform these duties in a timely manner.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through the credit research carried out by the investment managers.
The investment guidelines are designed to mitigate credit risk by ensuring diversification of the holdings.
For each portfolio there are limits to the exposure to single issuers and to the total amount that can be held in each credit quality rating category, as determined by reference to credit rating agencies.
26.5 million 2008: 59.0 million bonds held at 31 December 2009 were subject to downgrades during the year.
5 The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2009 of the exposure of the bond portfolio and reinsurance debtors by credit quality.
The table also shows the total value of premium debtors, representing amounts due from policyholders.
The quality of these debtors is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
The reinsurance debtors represent the amounts due at 31 December 2009 as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned and unearned risks.
Reinsurance debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
Credit risk is managed through the employment of key controls that include broker approval, annual financial review and internal rating of brokers and regular monitoring of premium settlement performance.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance debtors is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee, prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer and Standard & Poors ratings.
The Group holds collateral from certain reinsurers including those that are non-rated.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the total reinsurance debtors would be 4.7 million 2008: 3.9 million.
Insurance Money and Market reinsurance Debt funds and premium Reinsurance securities cash debtors debtors m 31 December 2008 m % % m % m % AAA 1,406.4 77.2779.3100.0 8.3 2.1 AA 225.4 12.4 162.0 41.6 A 99.3 5.4 201.8 51.9 BBB 70.4 3.9 2.3 0.6 Other 19.5 1.1467.3100.0 14.5 3.8 1,821.0 100.0 779.3 100.0 467.3 100.0 388.9 100.0 5 Credit ratings on debt securities are State Street composite ratings based on Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch, depending on which agency agencies rate each bond.
Shareholder information 201 The table below shows the credit rating of the Groups asset and mortgage backed debt securities and corporate bonds.
Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2009 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 342.4 20.8% 30.5% 42.3% 4.1% 2.3% Corporate Other 89.9 29.3% 47.3% 23.4% Mortgage backed securities 148.4 89.8% 2.1% 1.2% 0.7% 6.2% Asset backed securities 76.0 85.9% 1.7% 4.1% 6.5% 1.8% Insurance linked securities 66.7 100.0% Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2008 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 138.4 29.9% 21.1% 48.0% 6.0% Corporate Other 82.7 16.2% 3.6% 32.8% 47.4% Mortgage backed securities 161.9 95.7% 0.2% 1.6% 2.0% 0.5% Asset backed securities 136.0 79.3% 6.8% 1.4% 12.4% 0.1% Insurance linked securities 22.9 7.9% 10.8% 81.3% The table excludes 102.9 million 2008: 81.3 million of corporate bonds with explicit government guarantees.
The table includes 12.2 million 2008: 49.1 million of government agency mortgage backed securities.
3.3 Fair value methodology For financial instruments carried at fair value, we have categorised the measurement basis into a fair value hierarchy that prioritises the inputs to the respective valuation techniques used to measure fair value: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide readily and regularly available quoted prices.
Level 2 Inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs to a valuation model for the asset that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs and are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect the assumptions it is considered that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
Shares and other variable yield securities Listed equities traded on a primary exchange are classified as Level 1.
Unlisted equities are valued using internal models, based principally upon managements assumptions, and are classified as Level 3.
Debt and other fixed income securities The fair value is based upon quotes from consensus pricing services where available.
These consensus pricing services derive prices based on an average of quotes provided by brokers.
Where multiple quotes are not available, the fair value is based upon evaluated pricing services, which typically use proprietary cash flow models and incorporate observable market inputs, such as credit spreads, benchmark quotes and other trade data.
If such services do not provide coverage of the asset, then fair value is determined manually using indicative broker quotes, which are corroborated by recent market transactions in similar or identical assets.
Where there is an active market for these assets and their fair value is the unadjusted quoted market price, these are classified as Level 1.
This is typically the case for highly liquid government bonds.
Level 1 also includes exchange-traded bond funds, where fair value is based upon quoted market prices and the funds are actively traded.
Where the market is inactive or the price is adjusted, but significant market observable inputs have been used by the pricing sources, then these are considered to be Level 2 inputs.
This is typically the case for government agency debt, corporate debt, and mortgage and asset backed securities.
Certain assets, for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
Property funds The fair value is based upon valuations provided by the fund manager.
The inputs into that valuation are primarily unobservable and, as such, these assets are classified as Level 3.
Participation in investment pools These are liquidity funds, which are valued using the fund managers net asset valuation and are highly liquid.
These are classified as Level 1.
157 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 3.
Risk disclosures continued Derivatives Listed derivative contracts, such as futures, that are actively traded are valued using quoted prices from the relevant exchange and are classified as Level 1.
Over-the-counter currency options are valued by the counterparty using quantitative models with multiple market inputs.
The market inputs are observable and the valuation can be validated through external sources.
These are classified as Level 2.
Fair Value Hierarchy Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2009 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 167.3 167.3 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,231.2 923.0 6.2 3,160.4 Property funds 125.7 125.7 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 500.6 500.6 Deposits with credit institutions 6.7 6.7 Derivative instruments 0.2 24.2 24.4 Other 1.3 8.5 9.8 Available for sale financial assets Unlisted equities 8.9 8.9 Total assets 2,906.0 948.5 149.3 4,003.8 Liabilities Derivative instruments 0.3 12.6 12.9 Total liabilities 0.3 12.6 12.9 Net financial assets 2,905.7 935.9 149.3 3,990.9 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts Accrued income 31.1 Net unsettled payables for investments sold 5.2 25.9 Total 3,965.0 The table below shows the reconciliation of movements in Level 3 investments during the year: Total m Balance at 1 January 2009 92.3 Total net losses recognised in the income statement 17.0 Net purchases 2.2 Acquisitions through business combination 73.7 Foreign exchange losses 1.9 Balance at 31 December 2009 149.3 Total losses for the period included in income for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 16.9 The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
A small percentage 3.7% of assets recorded at fair value are based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
Segmental reporting Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the management information reviewed by the Board of Directors of the Company that are used to make strategic decisions.
All operating segments used by management meet the definition of a reportable segment under IFRS 8.
The Group is organised into six operating segments.
Segments represent the distinct underwriting units through which the Group is organised and managed.
These segments are as follows: Amlin London, consisting of the Reinsurance, Property and Casualty, Marine and Aviation business units, underwritten via Syndicate 2001: Amlin UK, underwriting commercial insurance in the UK domestic market also via Syndicate 2001: Anglo French Underwriters, which writes a diverse book of specialty business in France via Syndicate 2001: Amlin Bermuda, which writes predominantly property reinsurance business, including reinsurance ceded by Syndicate 2001: Amlin Corporate Insurance, a leading provider of corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium: and Other corporate companies, comprising all other entities of the Group including holding companies.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Board of Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement.
Revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insurance contracts are issued.
Management considers its external customers to be the individual policyholders, therefore the Group is not reliant on any individual customer.
Comparative information has been restated in line with the requirements of IFRS 8.
Segmental information provided to the Board of Directors of the Company for the reportable segments of the Group is as follows: Anglo Amlin Other IntraIncome and expenses Amlin Amlin French Amlin Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK Underwriters Bermuda Insurance companies items Total Year ended 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Analysed by geographic segment UK 120.9164.5185.6 157.1 313.9 US 434.7 0.1 161.7 596.5 Europe 88.8 7.4 28.9 19.9 83.8 228.8 Worldwide 63.5 15.5 141.4 220.4 Other 147.83.433.0 0.1 184.3 Gross written premium 855.7 190.9 28.9 400.2 225.2 0.1 157.1 1,543.9 Gross earned premium 788.7 167.6 22.6 374.7 321.8 0.6 134.4 1,541.6 Reinsurance premium ceded 251.2 26.2 3.0 3.5 55.5 115.1 224.3 Net earned premium 537.5 141.4 19.6 371.2 266.3 0.6 19.3 1,317.3 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 234.7 94.2 11.9 138.5 173.0 1.6 85.6 565.1 Reinsurance recoveries 81.4 19.5 2.1 0.1 17.9 0.2 84.5 0.9 Underwriting expenses 229.2 39.2 7.3 71.0 64.2 5.4 18.2 387.3 Profit attributable to underwriting 155.0 27.5 2.5 161.8 11.2 7.8 365.8 Investment return 40.6 22.9 0.4 72.3 53.8 17.5 207.5 Other operating income 0.1 0.1 1.9 0.8 7.2 10.1 1 Agency expenses 16.5 3.8 0.4 20.7 Other non-underwriting expenses 1.7 0.3 13.6 11.4 51.5 51.3 2 Finance costs 23.0 Profit before taxation 509.1 Combined ratio 71% 81% 87% 56% 96% 72% Included within the gross written premium of Amlin Bermuda is premium ceded from Amlin London, Amlin UK and Anglo French Underwriters amounting to 157.1 million on reinsurance contracts undertaken at commercial rates 2008: 106.0 million.
1 Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited: 2 Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments.
159 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 4.
Segmental reporting continued Anglo Amlin Other IntraAssets and liabilities Amlin Amlin French Amlin Corporate corporate group by business segment London UK Underwriters Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Assets 1,917.3  3,643.1 5,673.0 Liabilities 1,694.4 723.3 13.9 448.3 1,311.8 1,802.1 1,913.9 4,079.9 Total net assets 222.9 47.7 3.4 981.7 280.2 1,786.4 1,729.2 1,593.1 Included in assets are the following: Anglo Amlin Other IntraAmlin Amlin Amlin French Corporate corporate group London UK Underwriters Bermuda Insurance companies items Total At 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Investments in joint venture 1.7 1.7 Additions to non-current assets 1.9 1.1 0.3 10.3 56.1 5.4 75.1 The net assets of Amlin Bermuda are located in Bermuda and the US.
The majority of the other assets of the Group are located in the UK, the US, Continental Europe and Canada.
The corresponding liabilities are also concentrated in these countries, but given the nature of the Groups business some of the liabilities will be located elsewhere in the world.
Depreciation has been charged on property and equipment for the year amounting to 4.8 million 2008: 3.3 million of which 1.3 million 2008: 0.7 million has been charged to Amlin London, 0.8 million 2008: 0.5 million to Amlin UK, 0.2 million 2008: nil million to Anglo French Underwriters, 0.5 million 2008: 1.0 million to Amlin Bermuda and 2.0 million to Amlin Corporate Insurance.
Segmental information for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been restated to be consistent with the disclosure for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The only change to the previously reported disclosures has been the aggregation of the Non-marine, Marine and Aviation divisions within Syndicate 2001 into the Amlin London segment.
Other IntraIncome and expenses Amlin Amlin Amlin corporate group 3 by business segment London UK Bermuda companies items Total Year ended 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Analysed by geographic segment UK 110.7136.8125.00.5 106.0 267.0 US 317.0124.2 441.2 Europe 82.75.316.3 104.3 Worldwide 33.41.0 34.4 Other 145.99.731.5 187.1 Gross written premium 689.7 152.8 297.0 0.5 106.0 1,034.0 Gross earned premium 709.8 144.4 271.7 2.3 100.4 1,027.8 Reinsurance premium ceded 182.1 22.6 0.3 90.7 114.3 Net earned premium 527.7 121.8 271.4 2.3 9.7 913.5 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 457.0 68.0 176.7 0.7 73.2 627.8 Reinsurance recoveries 189.0 9.2 0.2 71.3 127.1 Underwriting expenses 110.5 37.8 48.5 1.6 7.8 190.6 Profit attributable to underwriting 149.2 25.2 46.2 1.6 222.2 Investment return 41.1 32.0 48.5 6.6 18.0 Other operating income 1.7 0.8 0.2 2.7 1 Agency expenses 19.2 3.4 22.6 Other non-underwriting expenses 7.9 0.2 45.7 46.3 100.1 2 Finance costs 21.2 Profit before taxation 121.6 Combined ratio 72% 79% 83% 76% 1 Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited.
2 Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments.
3 Anglo French Underwriters was acquired in November 2008.
For the comparative year to 31 December 2008, one months income has been included within Other corporate companies.
Shareholder information 201 Other IntraAssets and liabilities Amlin Amlin Amlin corporate group by business segment London UK Bermuda Total companies items At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Assets 1,831.9565.61,367.1 3,044.8 2,633.1 4,176.3 Liabilities 1,664.5 511.0 415.4 1,517.1 1,147.8 2,960.2 Total net assets 167.4 54.6 951.7 1,527.7 1,485.3 1,216.1 Included in assets are the following: Anglo Other IntraAmlin Amlin French Amlin corporate group London UK Underwriters Bermuda companies items Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Investments in joint venture 1.5 1.5 Additions to non-current assets 1.6 11.3 27.6 6.2 46.7 5.
Net earned premium 2009 2008 m m Insurance contracts premium Gross written premium 1,543.9 1,034.0 Change in unearned premium provision 2.3 6.2 Gross earned premium 1,541.6 1,027.8 Reinsurance premium Reinsurance premium payable 221.3 118.3 Change in unearned reinsurance premium provision 3.0 4.0 Reinsurance earned premium 224.3 114.3 Net earned premium 1,317.3 913.5 161 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 6.
Investment return 2009 2008 m m Investment income dividend income 5.2 11.9 interest income 84.7 59.7 cash and cash equivalents interest income 3.4 34.6 93.3 106.2 Net realised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 86.4 4.8 debt securities 72.8 16.9 property funds 6.0 1.8 on assets classified as other than trading derivative instruments 37.9 12.0 57.5 22.3 Net unrealised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 115.5 89.0 debt securities 40.9 15.3 property funds 10.9 6.2 on assets classified as other than trading derivative instruments 26.2 171.7 110.5 207.5 18.0 7.
Insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 2009 2008 m m Gross claims and loss adjustment expenses Current year insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 781.6 764.3 Reduced costs for prior period insurance claims 216.5 136.5 565.1 627.8 Reinsurance claims Current year insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses recoverable from reinsurers 43.3 148.9 Reduced costs for prior period claims recoverable from reinsurers 42.4 21.8 0.9 127.1 Total net insurance claims and loss adjustment expenses 564.2 500.7 8.
Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 2009 2008 m m Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 276.6 191.8 Changes in deferred expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 9.2 1.2 267.4 193.0 162 www.
Other operating expenses 2009 2008 m m Expenses relating to underwriting Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 44.7 28.8 Lloyds expenses 13.6 17.2 Other administrative expenses 34.3 27.1 Underwriting exchange losses gains note 15 27.3 75.5 119.9 2.4 Other expenses Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 16.4 9.5 Employee incentives 36.6 21.5 Asset management fees 4.7 3.4 Other administrative expenses 15.1 9.1 ACI disentanglement costs 11.2 Group company exchange gains losses note 15 32.7 56.6 51.3 100.1 171.2 97.7 Employee and other administrative expenses not relating to underwriting represent costs associated with the corporate activities of the Group.
Directors remuneration The aggregate remuneration of the directors of the Company, including amounts received from subsidiaries, was: 2009 2008 m m Emoluments of executive directors including payments made under long-term incentive plans 5.0 6.5 Fees to non-executive directors 0.5 0.5 5.5 7.0 Pension contributions 0.2 0.2 5.7 7.2 Details of directors remuneration and pension benefits, including those of the highest paid director, are included in the Remuneration Report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
Payments were made to both a defined benefit pension scheme and stakeholder defined contribution scheme for one 2008: two executive director and to stakeholder defined contribution schemes for two 2008: two other executive directors.
Employee benefit expenses The average number of persons employed by the Group, including individuals on fixed-term contracts and directors, was: 2009 2008 Underwriting divisions Underwriting, claims and reinsurance 659 365 Administration and support 215 171 Central functions Operations 115 70 Finance 105 78 Internal audit and compliance 13 11 1,107 695 2009 2008 By location UK 681 665 Bermuda 28 23 Continental Europe excluding UK 391 3 Singapore 5 3 US 2 1 1,107 695 163 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 11.
Employee benefit expenses continued The aggregate payroll costs incurred by Group companies are analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 58.8 38.3 Employee incentive and related social security costs 36.6 21.5 Share options granted to directors and employees note 24 2.4 2.1 Social security costs 7.4 5.3 Pension costs defined contribution schemes note 28 4.1 3.7 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 28 2.3 2.6 111.6 68.3 12.
Finance costs 2009 2008 m m Letter of credit commission 1.5 2.1 Subordinated bond interest 20.7 19.0 Bank charges 0.1 Other similar charges 0.8 23.0 21.2 13.
Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following amounts: 2009 2008 m m Depreciation owned assets note 21 4.8 3.3 Amortisation note 22 4.3 1.4 Operating lease charges 5.5 3.8 Foreign exchange gains 5.4 18.9 Following the completion of the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. in July 2009, the audit of the companies in the Amlin Group was spread between three audit firms.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, made the decision to put the Group audit out to competitive tender.
 LLP PwC was successful in that process.
Fees paid to the Groups auditors during the period of their appointment as auditors are set out below: 2009 2008 000 000 Amounts charged to the income statement PwC Deloitte Audit of the Companys annual accounts 120.4 32.9 83.6 Audit of subsidiary companies 626.9 14.6 423.1 Taxation advice 165.6 36.0 ACI acquisition advisory fees capitalised as part of acquisition expenses 1,346.5 Other audit 16.5 26.4 929.4 1,394.0 569.1 164 www.
Tax 2009 2008 m m Current tax current year UK corporation tax 94.8 22.9 Foreign tax suffered 0.6 94.2 22.9 Current tax prior year UK corporation tax 1.0 2.8 Deferred tax current year Movement for the year 38.2 20.6 Deferred tax prior year Movement for the year 0.7 0.5 Taxes on income 54.3 41.2 In addition to the above, deferred tax of 14.5 million on taxable items taken through equity has been credited directly to equity 2008: 2.8 million credited as follows: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax on actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension scheme 5.8 2.3 Deferred tax on intangible assets 0.4 Current tax on taxable foreign exchange losses gains charged to equity 9.6 Deferred tax on share options 0.5 Other items 0.5 Taxes credited charged to equity 14.5 2.8 Underwriting profits and losses are recognised in the technical account on an annual accounting basis, recognising the results in the period in which they are earned.
UK corporation tax on the profits of Syndicate 2001 is charged in the period in which the underwriting profits are actually paid by the Syndicate to the corporate members.
Deferred tax is provided on the annually accounted underwriting result with reference to the forecast ultimate result of each of the years of account included in the annually accounted underwriting.
Where the forecast ultimate result for a year of account is a taxable profit, but the result recognised in the accounts is a loss to date on annually accounted basis, deferred tax is only provided for the movement on that year of account included in the periods annually accounted Syndicate underwriting result to the extent that forecasts show that the taxable loss will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax liability carried forward on the annually accounted underwriting result is 96.5 million 2008: 122.9 million.
Deferred tax assets on loss provisions in respect of non-aligned syndicate participations see note 18 are only provided for to the extent that forecasts show that it is more likely than not that the ultimate taxable underwriting losses represented by these provisions will be utilised within the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax has been provided in full on non-aligned syndicate loss participation provisions of 0.2 million 2008: 1.0 million.
Reconciliation of tax expense The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 28.0% 2008: 28.5%, whereas the tax charged for the year ended 31 December 2009 as a percentage of profit before tax is 10.7% 2008: 33.9%.
The reasons for this difference are explained below: 2009 2009 2008 2008 m % m % Profit before tax 509.1 121.6 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 142.5 28.0 34.7 28.5 Non-deductible or non-taxable items 2.4 0.5 0.2 Tax rate differences on overseas subsidiaries 69.7 13.7 9.7 8.0 Over provision in respect of prior periods 2.3 1.8 Reduction in future UK tax rate 1.1 0.8 Release of deferred tax provision on prior year Bermudian profits 16.1 3.1 Taxes on income 54.3 10.7 41.2 33.9 The Groups tax provision for 2009 has been prepared on the basis that the Groups Bermudian subsidiaries are non-UK resident for UK corporation tax purposes.
The corporation tax rate for Bermudian companies is currently nil% 2008: nil%.
At 31 December 2008 a deferred tax liability of 16.1 million was provided for on profits of the Groups overseas subsidiaries expected to be distributed in the foreseeable future.
Following the enactment of the Finance Act 2009, which exempts most overseas dividends from the UK corporation tax, the deferred tax liability provided at 31 December 2008 has been released.
165 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 14.
Tax continued Deferred tax has been provided for at the local tax rate in force when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The Group is subject to US tax on US underwriting profits.
No provision has been made in respect of such tax arising in 2009 2008: nil as any net provision is likely to be immaterial and would be offset by brought forward US tax losses in the Group.
Deferred tax The deferred tax asset is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Provisions Other Pension Other timing for losses provisions provisions differences Total m m m m m At 1 January 2008 1.0 5.2 0.8 6.4 13.4 Movements in the year 0.5 1.0 2.8 2.3 At 31 December 2008 1.0 4.7 1.8 3.6 11.1 Opening balances on acquisition 17.1 17.1 Movements in the year 0.8 1.0 4.7 4.0 0.9 At 31 December 2009 0.2 5.7 6.5 16.7 29.1 The deferred tax liability is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Underwriting Unrealised Syndicate Overseas Other timing results capital gains capacity earnings differences Intangibles Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 102.9 0.1 4.5 20.3 0.3 128.1 Movements in the year 20.0 0.1 0.8 4.2 16.5 At 31 December 2008 122.9 5.3 16.1 0.3 144.6 Opening balances on acquisition 4.4 2.0 16.6 23.0 Movements in the year 26.4 0.8 16.1 1.6 0.7 42.6 At 31 December 2009 96.5 4.4 6.1 0.7 17.3 125.0 No deferred tax asset has been recognised on US net operating losses of nil million 2008: 26.5 million carried forward due to uncertainty over their future use.
Deferred tax of 20.9 million 2008: 54.1 million is expected to be settled after more than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Net foreign exchange gains losses The Group recognised net foreign exchange gains of 5.4 million 2008: 18.9 million net gain in the income statement during the year.
The Group writes business in many currencies and although a large proportion of the Groups balance sheet assets and liabilities are matched, minimising the effect of movements in foreign exchange rates on the Groups result, it is not possible, or practical, to match exactly all assets and liabilities in currency.
Accounting standards also require that certain classes of assets and liabilities be translated at different rates see foreign currency translation accounting policy.
Included within the Groups foreign exchange gain in the income statement are: 2009 2008 m m Net gains on underwriting transactions and translation of underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 1.7 17.4 Losses gains arising from the treatment of net non-monetary assets and liabilities at historical average rates 29.0 58.1 Underwriting exchange losses gains 27.3 75.5 Gains losses on long-term US dollar borrowings 6.4 18.1 Gains losses on Sterling capital assets held in Amlin Bermuda Ltd note 3 25.2 41.3 Net gains on non-underwriting transactions and translation of non-underwriting assets and liabilities at closing rates 1.1 2.8 Non-underwriting exchange gains losses 32.7 56.6 5.4 18.9 166 www.
Shareholder information 201 In addition, the following exchange movements have been charged directly to equity: 2009 2008 m m Losses gains on translation of overseas subsidiaries Amlin Bermuda Ltd 98.5 256.5 Anglo French Underwriters 0.4 Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. 7.3 91.2 256.1 Gains losses on derivative instruments hedging investments in overseas operations 29.3 74.7 Losses gains on translation of intangibles 1.6 4.7 63.5 186.1 Amlin Bermuda Ltd, which reports in US dollars, held Sterling assets of nil million at 31 December 2009 2008: 182.1 million.
Sterling assets held during the year produced a foreign exchange gain of 25.2 million 2008: loss of 41.3 million which is included within the Groups foreign exchange gains.
These investments, together with certain foreign exchange hedge contracts, were held in Sterling as part of the Groups overall strategy to hedge up to 50% of its US dollar exposure in Amlin Bermuda Ltd.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents represents cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits which can be recalled within 24 hours.
Financial assets and financial liabilities a Carrying amount At valuation At valuation At cost At cost 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through income Shares and other variable yield securities 167.3 190.7 161.8 310.4 Debt and other fixed income securities 3,127.7 1,805.3 3,162.7 1,811.5 Property funds 125.7 83.5 147.2 94.9 Other financial assets at fair value through income Participation in investment pools 508.2 789.0 499.1 789.0 Deposits with credit institutions 6.4 29.0 6.4 29.0 Derivative instruments 24.4 18.5 4.5 14.7 Other 9.3 2.0 9.2 2.0 Available-for-sale financial assets Unlisted equities 8.9 8.6 8.9 8.6 Total financial assets 3,977.9 2,926.6 3,999.8 3,060.1 Liabilities Derivative instruments 12.9 58.5 Total financial liabilities 12.9 58.5 Net financial assets 3,965.0 2,868.1 3,999.8 3,060.1 In Group owned companies 2,410.4 1,291.2 2,431.6 1,436.0 In Syndicate 2001 1,550.3 1,573.1 1,563.9 1,620.3 In non-aligned syndicates participations see note 18 4.3 3.8 4.3 3.8 3,965.0 2,868.1 3,999.8 3,060.1 Listed investments included above are as follows: Shares and other variable yield securities 167.3 190.7 161.8 310.4 Debt and other fixed income securities 3,127.7 1,739.8 3,162.7 1,746.0 3,295.0 1,930.5 3,324.5 2,056.4 167 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 17.
Financial assets and financial liabilities continued All financial assets and liabilities are held at fair value, with all gains and losses, realised and unrealised, recorded through the income statement, except for unlisted equities which are classified as available for sale and derivative instruments providing a net investment hedge for which gains and losses are taken to equity.
Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as trading assets, as the Group buys with the intention to resell.
Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled exchange-traded funds, investing in bonds.
The valuation of these funds is 1,076.1 million 2008: 228.2 million.
Also included within debt and other fixed income securities and deposits with credit institutions are overseas deposits amounting to 71.0 million 2008: 71.1 million.
Overseas deposits represent balances held with overseas regulators to permit underwriting in certain territories.
These assets are managed by Lloyds on a pooled basis and are predominantly invested in debt and other fixed income securities.
Participation in investment pools includes units held in money market funds.
Unlisted equity investments are the Groups investments of 19.9% of the shares in Miles Smith plc 4.0 million and TL Dallas Group Limited 4.6 million, purchased in 2008, and Vega Insurance Agencies AS 0.3 million purchased on 9 December 2009.
No provision has been made for the impairment of these investments as at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
As part of our process to improve the presentation of the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements certain changes have been made to the presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities in order to better reflect their nature.
These changes in presentation have no effect on the previously reported net income or shareholders equity.
Comparative information has been amended to reflect this change.
The reconciliation of opening and closing financial investments is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 2,868.1 2,638.9 Exchange gains 128.0 547.5 Net purchases sales 11.5 155.4 Realised losses gains on disposals 57.5 22.3 Unrealised investment gains losses 171.7 110.5 Acquisitions through business combination note 38 1,069.9 Gains losses on derivative hedging instruments realised and unrealised 29.3 74.7 At 31 December 3,965.0 2,868.1 b Asset allocation At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 Policyholders Capital assets assets Total assets Total assets m m m % m % 1 Assets by region excluding pooled vehicles United Kingdom 239.6 104.3 343.9 11.7 452.6 17.0 USA and Canada 902.3 420.7 1,323.0 45.2 1,638.0 61.6 Europe excluding UK 819.8 368.5 1,188.3 40.5 487.9 18.4 Far East 28.0 33.2 61.2 2.1 68.6 2.6 Emerging markets 15.1 0.8 15.9 0.5 9.9 0.4 2,004.8 927.5 2,932.3 100.0 2,657.0 100.0 2 Credit ratings of corporate bonds including government guaranteed bonds AAA 163.8 1.5 165.3 30.7 131.0 43.3 AA 118.0 18.9 136.9 25.5 37.1 12.3 A 151.3 38.6 189.9 35.3 86.8 28.7 BBB 17.5 17.7 35.2 6.5 47.5 15.7 Other 10.9 10.9 2.0 461.5 76.7 538.2 100.0 302.4 100.0 Notes: 1 The regional table excludes bond pooled vehicles of 1,076.1 million and Leadenhall Capital Partners of 63.7 million.
2 The Credit ratings of corporate bonds table includes 102.9 million of government guaranteed corporate bonds.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Other Unearned insurance Claims premium assets and reserves reserves liabilities Total m m m m Insurance liabilities At 1 January 2008 1,350.2 501.8 34.0 1,886.0 Movement in period 43.9 7.8 39.8 91.5 Exchange adjustments 298.7 39.8 11.1 349.6 At 31 December 2008 1,692.8 549.4 84.9 2,327.1 Movement in period 99.0 2.3 112.9 16.2 Acquisitions through business combination 943.6 203.1 44.6 1,191.3 Novation of liability 42.1 42.1 Accretion of fair value adjustment 0.7 0.7 Exchange adjustments 64.6 10.0 1.3 73.3 At 31 December 2009 2,431.4 744.8 243.7 3,419.9 Reinsurance assets At 1 January 2008 270.2 27.5 319.2 616.9 Movement in period 22.3 3.5 60.2 34.4 Exchange adjustments 68.3 66.1 134.4 At 31 December 2008 360.8 31.0 325.1 716.9 Movement in period 55.8 3.0 83.3 24.5 Acquisitions through business combination 160.0 28.5 5.1 183.4 Novation of asset 42.1 42.1 Accretion of fair value adjustment 0.1 0.1 Exchange adjustment 1.9 3.7 29.6 35.2 At 31 December 2009 421.1 52.8 373.7 847.6 In connection with the purchase accounting for the acquisition of ACI, the Group adjusted claims reserves and related reinsurance recoveries to fair value on acquisition.
The reduction to the original carrying value of 39.1 million and 6.4 million to claims reserves and reinsurance recoveries respectively is being recognised through a charge to the income statement over the period the claims are settled.
This net charge is 0.6 million in 2009.
The fair value was based on the present value of the expected cash flows with consideration for the uncertainty inherent in both the timing of, and the ultimate amount of, future payments for losses and receipts of amounts recoverable from reinsurers.
The nominal amounts were discounted to their present value using an applicable riskfree discount rate.
Further information on the calculation of claims reserves and the risks associated with them is provided in the risk disclosures in note 3.
Claims reserves are further analysed between notified outstanding claims and incurred but not reported claims below: 2009 2008 m m Notified outstanding claims 1,722.7 1,040.9 Claims incurred but not reported 708.7 651.9 Insurance contracts claims reserve 2,431.4 1,692.8 It is estimated, using historical settlement trends, that 930.9 million 2008: 781.8 million of the claims reserves, as at 31 December 2009, will settle in the next twelve months.
2009 2008 m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 871.2 744.0 Less provision for impairment of receivables from reinsurers 23.6 27.1 Reinsurance assets 847.6 716.9 169 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 18.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Other insurance liabilities are comprised principally of premium payable for reinsurance, including reinstatement premium.
Other insurance assets are comprised principally of amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of paid claims and premium receivable on inward reinsurance business, including reinstatement premium.
The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and credit grades provided by rating agencies.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurance assets are shown in note 3.2.
As at 31 December 2009 reinsurance assets at a nominal value of 10.3 million 2008: 13.4 million were greater than three months overdue and provided for to the value of 7.9 million 2008: 9.4 million.
The Group holds collateral of 0.1 million 2008: 0.2 million in relation to these assets.
The ageing analysis of reinsurance assets past due but not impaired is as follows: 2009 2008 m m 3 to 6 months 1.4 1.2 6 to 9 months 1.2 Greater than 9 months 1.0 1.6 2.4 4.0 The Group recognised a total impairment loss of 2.4 million 2008: 5.5 million on reinsurance assets and insurance receivables.
Of the total other insurance liabilities balance of 243.7 million and other reinsurance assets of 373.7 million, 9.6 million and 8.0 million respectively are expected to be settled after more than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
From 1994 to 1999 the Group participated on a number of Lloyds syndicates other than those managed by the Group.
From 2000 the Group ceased to underwrite directly on non-aligned syndicates.
Syndicates that still remain open at 31 December 2009 are set out in the table below.
Syndicate capacity Non-aligned 1999 1998 1997 syndicate m m m Managing agent Non-marine A E Grant Underwriting Agencies Ltd 991 2.93 2.35 Duncanson & Holt Syndicate Management Ltd 1101 2.50 2.50 Total Non-marine 2.93 4.85 2.50 Aviation Duncanson & Holt Syndicate Management Ltd 957 3.00 3.00 Total Aviation 3.00 3.00 Total capacity remaining open at 31 December 2009 2.93 7.85 5.50 The final remaining open syndicates are expected to close at 31 December 2009 and the amounts carried reflect the potential future payments required by the indicative terms of the closures.
These provisions of 0.3 million 2008: 2.6 million are included within the claims reserves in the table above.
Syndicates that still remain open at 31 December 2008 are set out in the table below.
Syndicate capacity Non-aligned 1999 1998 1997 syndicate m m m Managing agent Non-marine Jago Managing Agency Ltd 205 2.25 A E Grant Underwriting Agencies Ltd 991 2.93 2.35 Duncanson & Holt Syndicate Management Ltd 1101 2.50 2.50 Total Non-marine 5.18 4.85 2.50 Aviation Duncanson & Holt Syndicate Management Ltd 957 3.00 3.00 Total Aviation 3.00 3.00 Total capacity remaining open at 31 December 2008 5.18 7.85 5.50 170 www.
Loans and receivables, including insurance receivables 2009 2008 m m Receivables arising from insurance contracts 297.7 192.0 Less provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents 5.5 0.5 Insurance receivables 292.2 191.5 Other debtors 45.4 16.2 Prepayments and other accrued income 18.9 52.5 Other loans and receivables 64.3 68.7 356.5 260.2 2009 2008 m m Current portion 337.8 251.2 Non-current portion 18.7 9.0 356.5 260.2 The Group assesses its insurance receivables for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history.
As of 31 December 2009 insurance receivables at a nominal value of 14.5 million 2008: 3.6 million were greater than three months overdue and provided for on the basis of credit rating to the value of 5.5 million 2008: 0.5 million.
The ageing analysis of insurance receivables overdue, before impairment provision, is as follows: 2009 2008 m m 3 to 6 months 3.6 1.0 6 to 9 months 2.0 1.4 Greater than 9 months 8.9 1.2 14.5 3.6 ACIs Netherlands business does not currently produce an ageing report for insurance receivables due to the interaction of local market practice and the offices internal systems.
The total level of insurance receivables in the Netherlands is 65.0 million.
Deferred acquisition costs The reconciliation of opening and closing deferred acquisition costs is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 114.0 108.2 Incurred during the period 9.2 1.2 Acquisitions through business combination 21.6 Exchange adjustment 1.0 7.0 At 31 December 145.8 114.0 171 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 21.
Property and equipment Fixtures, Freehold fittings and land and Motor Computer leasehold buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2009 4.1 0.2 23.6 6.8 34.7 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 Additions 2.9 3.1 6.0 Acquisitions through business combination 0.3 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2009 4.1 0.2 26.7 9.9 40.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2009 0.2 0.1 19.8 6.2 26.3 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 0.1 3.0 1.8 4.8 At 31 December 2009 0.3 0.1 22.7 8.0 31.0 Net book value At 31 December 2009 3.8 0.1 4.1 1.8 9.9 At 1 January 2009 3.9 0.1 3.8 0.6 8.4 Fixtures, Leasehold Freehold fittings and land and land and leasehold Motor Computer buildings buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2008 1.9 0.1 20.9 6.4 29.3 Additions 4.10.12.6 0.3 7.1 Acquisitions through business combination 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 Disposal 1.9 0.1 0.1 2.1 At 31 December 2008 4.1 0.2 23.6 6.8 34.7 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2008 0.2 0.1 17.3 5.9 23.5 Charge for the year 0.2 0.1 2.7 0.3 3.3 Disposal 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.5 At 31 December 2008 0.2 0.1 19.8 6.2 26.3 Net book value At 31 December 2008 3.9 0.1 3.8 0.6 8.4 At 1 January 2008 1.7 3.6 0.5 5.8 There were no assets held under finance lease and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Intangible assets Broker and Syndicate customer Other Goodwill participations relationships intangibles Total m m m m m Net book value At 31 December 2008 33.9 63.2 10.8 2.3 110.2 Acquisitions through business combinations 32.6 26.8 59.4 Adjustments to prior year acquisitions 0.9 0.9 Amortisation 3.8 0.5 4.3 Foreign exchange losses gains 1.7 0.1 1.6 At 31 December 2009 63.9 63.2 33.9 1.8 162.8 Syndicate participations represent the ongoing rights, acquired in Lloyds auctions and by an offer to Lloyds Names, to trade on Syndicate 2001 within the Lloyds insurance market.
Amlin subsidiaries have supported all of the ongoing capacity of Syndicate 2001 since 1 January 2004.
All remaining liabilities of the Syndicate underwritten by third party capital prior to this date were taken on by Amlin subsidiaries at 1 January 2004.
Additions to goodwill of 27.2 million and broker and customer relationship intangibles relate to the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI and the addition to goodwill of 5.4 million relates to the acquisition of Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited.
Note 38 provides further details on this acquisition.
The costs of acquiring rights to ACIs broker and customer relationships are amortised using the straight line method over the estimated useful life of 15 years.
Goodwill and the Groups asset in relation to syndicate participations are considered to have an indefinite life.
As such, they are tested for impairment annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs identified according to country of operation and business segment.
The analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets by CGU is shown below: 2009 2008 m m Anglo Amlin Anglo Amlin French Corporate Amlin French London Underwriters Insurance Total London Underwriters Total Goodwill 8.2 28.1 27.6 63.9 2.8 31.1 33.9 Syndicate participations 63.2 63.2 Total 8.2 28.1 27.6 127.1 2.8 31.1 97.1 The intangible asset relating to the syndicate participations supports the underwriting in Amlin London, Amlin UK and Anglo French Underwriters.
Given the nature of the participation rights, it is not practical to split this asset between the three CGUs.
Accordingly, impairment testing has been performed based on aggregate Syndicate 2001 profit forecasts.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management and discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Key assumptions used in the calculation are: Budgeted operating profit for an initial five year period for Amlin London and a four year period for Anglo French Underwriters and Amlin Corporate Insurance represents the operating profit in the business plans.
As such this reflects the best estimate of future profits based on historical trends and expected growth rates.
The most significant assumptions used to derive the operating profit include our assessment of the market cycle, retention rates, claims inflation, outwards reinsurance expenditure and long-term investment return.
In order to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period, a nil growth rate has been assumed for all CGUs.
A risk adjusted discount rate of 15.0%, representing a risk-free rate and an additional prudent margin, has been applied to each CGUs cash flow projection.
The results of this exercise indicate that the recoverable amount exceeds in each case the intangibles carrying value and would not be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
173 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 23.
Share capital 2009 2009 2008 2008 Number m Number m Authorised ordinary shares At 1 January authorised ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2008: 28.125p 711,111,104 200.0 711,111,104 200.00 Increase in shares authorised 88,888,896 25.0 At 31 December authorised ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2008: 28.125p 800,000,000 225.0 711,111,104 200.00 Authorised redeemable non-cumulative preference shares B shares At 1 January authorised B shares of 22.4p each 544,642,000 122.0 544,642,000 122.0 At 31 December authorised B shares of 22.4p each 544,642,000 122.0 544,642,000 122.0 Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2008: 28.125 478,573,439 134.6 477,984,195 134.4 Shares issued to fund ACI acquisition 23,502,567 6.6 Shares issued on exercise of options 589,244 0.2 At 31 December issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 2008: 28.125p 502,076,006 141.2 478,573,439 134.6 Issued redeemable non-cumulative preference shares B shares At 1 January issued B shares of 22.4p each 5,335,475 1.2 537,464,619 120.4 B shares redemption 5,335,475 1.2 532,129,144 119.2 At 31 December issued B shares of 22.4p each 5,335,475 1.2 The Company transferred 1,599,228 shares out of treasury shares at a cost of 4.1 million 2008: 2,001,348 shares at a cost of 5.0 million.
The shares have been transferred to meet exercises of employee share options, leaving 7,164,424 ordinary shares in Treasury at 31 December 2009 2008: 8,763,652 ordinary shares.
On 3 June 2009, the Group placed 23,502,567 new Ordinary Shares with institutional investors representing approximately 5% of Amlins issued Ordinary Share capital, in order to finance part of the consideration of ACI.
The placing proceeds were 75.0 million net of expenses.
On 14 November 2007, the Group announced its intention to return approximately 120 million of capital to shareholders by way of a B share issue combined with a consolidation of Amlins existing shares on the basis of eight new ordinary shares for nine existing ones.
This was subsequently approved by the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 December 2007.
B shares were issued on 17 December 2007 to existing shareholders on the basis of one B share for each ordinary share held on 14 December 2007.
Each B share enabled the shareholder to redeem the share at 22.4 pence per share at various dates in the future up to August 2009 or, alternatively, to receive a B share initial dividend in January 2008 of 22.4 pence per share.
Following such dividend receipt, the relevant B shares were converted into deferred shares which were themselves redeemed on 14 January 2008 for a total redemption value of one penny in all.
On 3 August 2009 all of the then remaining outstanding B shares were redeemed by the Company.
Share options and share-based incentive awards Details of the Amlin Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS, the Amlin Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Share Incentive Plan SIP are set out in the Remuneration Report in the Governance section.
At 31 December 2009 the following options over new or treasury shares were outstanding under these executive schemes: 2009 2008 Option price Number of Number of Usual first month of exercise Scheme per share shares shares May 2005 ESOS 76.33p 54,155 77,281 May 2004 ESOS 108.09p 7,770 7,770 April 2006 ESOS 110.82p 79,994 156,055 March 2007 ESOS 152.85p 211,252 491,725 March 2008 ESOS 161.77p 492,747 958,128 March 2009 ESOS 293.00p 1,244,230 1,854,014 December 2011 LTIP 54,608 54,608 April 2012 LTIP 21,502 June 2014 PSP 26,969 August 2014 PSP 75,696 April 2012 SIP 10,792 September 2012 SIP 94,230 2,373,945 3,599,581 ESOS options listed above are potentially exercisable for seven years starting on the usual first month of exercise specified above.
LTIP awards listed above are awards made under a French schedule to the LTIP.
The shares may be released to participants from three years from the date of the award.
PSP awards listed above are awards made under appropriate schedules to the PSP to employees in the Groups French, Netherlands and Belgian businesses.
These shares may be released to participants from five years from the date of the award.
SIP shares listed above are awards made on an all-employee basis, to employees in France AFU in April 2009 and the Netherlands, Belgium and France ACI in September 2009.
In each case these awards were made under appropriate local versions of the SIP adapted to the relevant jurisdiction.
In the cases of all of the LTIP, PSP and SIP awards, in some circumstances, such as redundancy, shares may be released earlier.
The following changes to new or treasury shares either under option or the subject of conditional awards pursuant to the Companys share and the long-term incentive plans took place during the year: Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number of price Number of price Shares pence shares pence 2009 2009 2008 2008 At 1 January 3,599,581 221.53 5,929,763 198.57 Granted awarded during the year 229,189 54,608 Exercised during the year 1,425,455 212.14 2,124,990 150.02 Lapsed during the year 29,370 139.51 259,800 235.74 At 31 December 2,373,945 206.78 3,599,581 221.53 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the executive options outstanding at 31 December 2009 was 5.4 years 2008: 6.5 years.
175 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 24.
Share options and share-based incentive awards continued In addition to these executive options, the following employee Sharesave options over new or treasury shares were outstanding at 31 December 2009: Usual first month Option price Number of Savings period of exercise per share shares Five years July 2009 134.11p 2,438 Five years December 2010 146.49p 138,250 Three years July 2010 266.00p 250,179 Five years July 2012 266.00p 166,981 Three years December 2011 246.00p 289,377 Five years December 2013 246.00p 201,225 Three years July 2012 329.00p 167,831 Five years July 2014 329.00p 101,841 1,318,122 The following changes in new or treasury shares under option pursuant to the Sharesave scheme took place during the year: Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number of price Number of price shares pence shares pence 2009 2009 2008 2008 At 1 January 1,326,393 228.22 1,364,339 187.45 Granted during the year 271,719 329.00 525,956 246.00 Exercised during the year 168,773 148.38 465,602 137.31 Lapsed during the year 111,217 234.79 98,300 188.00 At 31 December 1,318,122 258.66 1,326,393 228.22 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the Sharesave options outstanding at 31 December 2009 was 2.3 years 2008: 3.1 years.
The trustee of the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT held 1,056,440 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2009 2008: 1,221,891 ordinary shares to meet potential future exercises of executive options and long-term incentive plans.
The Company had also made arrangements as at that date whereby the ESOT will provide up to 1,951,017 Performance Share Plan PSP shares, normally exercisable from five years after grant on dates between 2010 and 2014, and up to 2,049,609 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP shares, normally exercisable from three years after grant on dates between 2010 and 2012, and up to 37,289 shares over which options were granted in May 2008 to a non-director employee normally not exercisable until 2011 and 2012.
The ESOT shares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The market value of Amlin plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2009 was 358.7p per share 2008: 357.5p.
The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOT are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements.
The ESOT waives the right to dividends on ordinary shares in excess of 0.01p per each share ranking for an interim or final dividend.
The weighted average share price of Amlin plc throughout the year was 358.15 pence 2008: 290.06 pence.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to determine the fair value of the option grants listed above.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted average grant price pence 227.19 213.34 Weighted average exercise price pence 189.09 186.03 Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00% Expected life years 3.00 7.50 3.00 7.50 Risk free rate of return 2.00% 5.00% 3.50% 5.00% Expected dividend yield 2.00% 7.00% 2.00% 7.00% Volatility The volatility of the Amlin share price is calculated as a normalised standard deviation of the log of the daily return on the share price.
In estimating a 30% volatility, the volatility of return for six months, one year and three year intervals are considered.
As a guide to the reasonableness of the volatility estimate similar calculations are performed on a selection of Amlins peer group.
Interest rate The risk free interest rate is consistent with government bond yields.
Dividend yield The assumptions are consistent with the information given in the report and accounts for each relevant valuation year.
Staff turnover The option pricing calculations are split by staffing grades as staff turnover is higher for more junior grades.
Furthermore, historical evidence suggests that senior employees tend to hold their options for longer whereas more junior levels within the organisation appear to exercise earlier.
In addition, senior employees hold a larger proportion of the options but represent a smaller group of individuals.
Market conditions Amlin issues options that include targets for the Groups performance against a number of market and non-market conditions.
Failure to meet these targets can reduce the number of options exercisable.
In some circumstances no options may be exercised.
Assumptions are made about the likelihood of meeting the market and non-market conditions based on the outlook at the time of each option grant.
179 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 25.
Restricted assets At 31 December 2009, Syndicate 2001 holds gross assets of 2,705.6 million 2008: 2,692.6 million which are held within individual trust funds and the Group cannot obtain or use them until such time as each Syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
Trade and other payables and deferred income 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 51.9 59.9 Accrued expenses 87.0 58.8 Social security and other tax payables 4.9 3.3 Issued redeemable non-cumulative preference shares B shares note 23 1.2 143.8 123.2 2009 2008 m m Current portion 118.5 110.0 Non-current portion 25.3 13.2 143.8 123.2 27.
Borrowings 2009 2008 m m Subordinated debt 316.4 295.9 The borrowings in the above table are all non-current.
The Groups borrowings comprise four issues of subordinated debt.
Details of the subordinated debt issues are as follows: Interest rate to Interest rate from reset reset date date to maturity date Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % 1 23 November 2004 US$50m November 2014 November 2019 7.11 LIBOR 3.48 1 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 1 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 2 15 October 2003 30m N AOctober 2018 6.50 N A 1 Debt issued by Amlin plc.
2 Debt issued by Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. The bonds will be redeemed on the maturity dates at the principal amounts, together with any outstanding accrued interest.
For the US dollar and Sterling bonds, the Company has the option to redeem the bonds in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
The Euro bond was acquired by the Company as part of the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. The directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups borrowings is 380.2 million 2008: 360.4 million.
The aggregate fair values of borrowings are based on a discounted cash flow model.
This model uses a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining terms to maturity.
The discount rate used was 3.41%.
On 3 September 2008 the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a renegotiated debt facility with its banks which is available for five years from the date of signing and provides an unsecured 250 million multicurrency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances or letter of credit LOC and a secured US$200 million LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Limited and Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global Limited with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2009 the facility was undrawn.
In September 2009, Amlin Bermuda Ltd entered into a secured US$200 million LOC facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc and with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2009, US$124.9 million of LOC were issued.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2009 was US$145.1 million.
In February 2009, Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI entered into a secured US$1.5 million standby LOC facility with Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. as arranger.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a bank account managed by Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. As at 31 December 2009, US$1.5 million of LOC was issued.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2009 was US$1.5 million.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of pension schemes, including defined benefit, defined contribution and personal pension schemes.
The total charge credit to the income statement for these schemes is shown in the table below: 2009 2008 m m Defined contribution schemes 4.1 3.7 Defined benefit schemes Lloyds Superannuation Fund 1.0 2.6 ACI defined benefit schemes 1.3 6.4 1.1 a Defined benefit schemes i The Lloyds Superannuation Fund funded defined benefit scheme Scheme description The scheme is operated as part of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund.
Historically the Fund has catered for a number of employers in the Lloyds market.
As a consequence of the consolidation in the market, employers closing final salary schemes and some companies failing, there are now only three 2008: three employers with active members in the Fund.
A large proportion of the liability of the Fund relates to employers no longer participating in the Fund.
The assets of the Fund are pooled and the current active employers are responsible collectively for the funding of the Fund as a whole.
For the purposes of determining contributions to be paid, the Trustee has split the Fund into a number of notional sections.
This is a notional split and has no legal force.
Previously this notional split allowed for separate sections in respect of each employers active members and one combined section for non-employed members of all current and former employers.
With effect from 31 December 2002, the Trustee altered this notional split so that, from that date, the active employers contributing to the Fund, including the Amlin Group, have individual notional sections comprising the notionally allocated assets in respect of their active employees, deferred pensioners and pensioners, and their corresponding liabilities.
A separate notional fund is maintained for members whose former employers no longer contribute to the Fund Orphan Schemes.
Amlin is also liable for a proportion of the Orphan Schemes liabilities.
Since this alteration and the exit of other employers Amlin has been able to more clearly identify its expected contribution requirement to the Fund and able to ascertain its share of the assets and liabilities with sufficient certainty to account for the pension as a defined benefit scheme and bring the assets and liabilities of the scheme onto the balance sheet of the Group.
Fund contributions In December 2009 an additional contribution of 5.0 million was made to reduce the size of the deficit in the scheme.
Contributions will also be paid to provide for the cost of benefit accrual after the date of the valuation.
The rate of contribution agreed with the Trustee is 19% 2008: 19% paid by the employer plus 5% 2008: 5% member contributions, in each case of pensionable earnings, and totalled 0.9 million 2008: 1.3 million.
The expected contribution to the fund for the year ending 31 December 2010 is 0.7 million by the Group and 0.2 million by plan participants.
The total amounts paid in respect of the Fund are analysed in the table below.
2009 2008 m m Contributions relating to: One-off top up payment Amlin scheme 5.0 1.2 Ongoing funding 0.7 0.9 Group share of total payment 5.7 2.1 Funding assessment assumptions The funding position of the Fund is assessed every three years by an independent qualified actuary.
Contributions are made at the funding rates recommended by the actuary, which vary across different sections of the Fund reflecting the notional sections then adopted, and typically include adjustments to amortise any funding surplus or shortfall over a period.
Amounts paid under the scheme are charged to Syndicate 2001 or other Group companies.
Actuarial amounts quoted below are for the Groups notional share of the scheme.
181 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The last completed formal valuation of the Fund was as at 31 March 2007 and was carried out by Mr N Wharmby, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, and used the projected unit credit actuarial method.
For the purpose of providing disclosure in accordance with IAS 19, the Group has requested the actuary to update the 2007 valuation to 31 December 2009 using appropriate techniques and the following assumptions: 2009 2008 % pa % pa Price inflation 3.7 2.8 Rate of increase in pensions payment: LPI maximum 5% pa 3.5 2.8 LPI minimum 3% pa, maximum 5% pa 3.9 3.5 LPI maximum 3% pa 2.7 2.3 Rate of increase of statutory revaluation on deferred pension 3.7 2.8 Discount rate 5.6 6.3 During 2005 the Group reviewed its remaining defined benefit arrangements and made a number of changes to the schemes operations, which were implemented during 2006.
In particular, in order to remove much of the risk associated with salary inflation, the scheme was changed to allow members to continue accruing additional years service under the schemes, but these accruals would be generally based on March 2006 pensionable salaries.
Future salary increases are pensionable through the defined contribution schemes.
Therefore the salary inflation assumption used for the ongoing valuation is now nil%.
The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 25.4 28.4 25.3 28.3 Aged 45 26.7 29.5 26.6 29.5 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have.
Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 11 13 Increase decrease in inflation rate by 0.25% 6 6 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.0% per annum 6 ii ACI defined benefit plans Scheme description ACI operates defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of its employees.
These plans are funded partly by means of employee contributions.
Under these plans, benefits are based on years of service and level of salary.
Pension obligations are determined based on mortality, employee turnover, wage increases and economic assumptions such as inflation, value of plan assets and discount rate.
The discount rate is set on the basis of the yield on the valuation date of debt securities issued by blue-chip companies.
In addition to pension charges, costs of defined-benefit plans also include other post-employment benefits such as reimbursement of part of the health insurance premiums and favourable conditions on financial products e. g. mortgage loans, which continue to be granted to employees after retirement.
The asset and liability of the Netherlands pension plan was acquired as part of the ACI acquisition.
Prior to acquisition, employees of the Belgian office were employed by another company within the Fortis group.
Immediately following the acquisition, 109 ACI Belgian employees from a total of 130 transferred their employment to ACI.
Consequently the net pension obligation with respect to these employees was recognised by the Group immediately after the completion of the acquisition.
Shareholder information 201 Funding assessment assumptions The table below shows the actuarial assumptions used.
The Netherlands Belgium 2009 2009 % % Discount rate for pension benefits 5.5 4.8 Discount rate for Jubilee benefits 3.9 4.0 Discount rate for farewell premium 4.5 Discount rate for post-retirement medical 5.4 Expected return on plan assets 3.35 4.0 Expected wage increases general 2.6 2.6 Expected wage increases merit 0-6.75 1.5 Inflation 2.0 2.0 Indexation for active employees 2.6 Indexation for formerly active employees 2.0 Medical trend rate 4.0 The mortality assumptions used in the latest valuation included the following life expectancies: The Netherlands Belgium Male Female Male Female Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Aged 60 18.9 22.8 22.1 25.9 Aged 45 20.5 24.3 22.1 25.9 The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have.
Defined benefit obligation impact m Assumption change Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 2 2 Increase decrease in inflation rate by 0.25% 2 2 Increase in floor mortality improvements for males of 1.5% and females of 1.0% per annum Fund contributions The expected contribution to the funds by the Group during 2010 is 3.6 million.
iii Amounts recognised in the Groups financial statements for defined benefit schemes Amounts recognised in income in respect of the defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Current service cost 1.2 0.5 Interest cost 17.0 16.5 Expected return on scheme assets 15.9 19.1 Reversal of provision for additional pension payments 0.5 Total debited credited to income included in staff costs 2.3 2.6 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Recognition of net loss 23.7 31.2 Ceiling limit on asset gains 23.0 Reversal of contractual cash obligations 2.3 23.7 5.9 183 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes is as follows: 2009 2008 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 359.0 260.0 Fair value of scheme assets 334.5 256.0 Deficit in schemes 24.5 4.0 Liability recognised in the balance sheet 24.5 4.0 Of the total liability of 24.5 million, 13.7 million is expected to be settled within 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year is as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 260.0 295.0 Employer service cost 1.2 0.5 Interest cost 17.0 16.5 Contributions from scheme members 0.4 0.2 Actuarial losses gains 53.6 40.3 Benefits paid from plan assets 13.2 11.9 Acquisition through business combination 32.6 Transfer of ACI Belgium scheme liabilities post-acquisition 6.6 Foreign exchange 0.8 At 31 December 359.0 260.0 The expected total benefit payments to plan participants during 2010 is 12.7 million for LSF and 0.8 million for ACI scheme 2009: LSF 11.9 million.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets during the year are as follows: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 256.0 318.0 Expected return on scheme assets 15.9 19.1 Difference between expected and actual return 30.1 71.5 Employer contributions 6.8 2.1 Plan participant contributions 0.4 0.2 Benefits paid 13.2 11.9 Administrative expenses 0.2 Acquisition through business combination 35.3 Transfer of ACI Belgium scheme assets post-acquisition 2.4 Foreign exchange 1.0 At 31 December 334.5 256.0 The analysis of the plan assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date are as follows: Asset mix Long-term rate of return 31 December 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 31 December 2009 2008 ACI Fund The ACI Fund LSF ACI Fund LSF LSF Netherlands Belgium LSF Equities 30% 17% 31% 8.2% 5.9% 7.5% Bonds 70% 83% 69% 5.0% 2.9% 4.0% 5.6% The long-term rates of return are estimated by the directors based upon current expectations of future investment performance.
Shareholder information 201 The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m LSF Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 295.0 256.0 318.0 315.0 305.0 Asset gain loss during period 30.3 71.5 9.0 41.0 Asset gain loss as percentage of plan assets 10.3% 28% 3% 0% 14% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 315.0 260.0 295.0 304.0 311.0 Liability gain loss during period 6.7 5.0 9.0 Liability gain loss as percentage of plan assets 0% 3% 2% 0% 3% Liability assumptions Liability loss gain over period 51.0 47.0 15.0 2.0 27.0 Liability loss gain as percentage of defined benefit obligations 16.2% 18% 5% 1% 9% 2009 m ACI Asset experience Fair value of scheme asset 39.5 Asset loss during period 0.2 Asset loss as percentage of plan assets 1.0% Liability experience Present value of defined benefit obligations 44.0 Liability loss during period Liability loss as percentage of plan assets 0% Liability assumptions Liability loss over period 2.6 Liability loss as percentage of defined benefit obligations 5.9% The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive income for all defined benefit schemes is 45.4 million of which 5.5 million relates to the acquisition of Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V.. c The stakeholder defined contribution scheme The defined contribution scheme operated by the Group is a stakeholder arrangement.
The total contributions for the year ended 31 December 2009 to the scheme were 4.1 million 2008: 3.7 million.
The estimated amounts of contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension scheme for the year ending 31 December 2010 are approximately 4.0 million 2008: 3.8 million.
d Other arrangements Other pension arrangements include an occupational money purchase scheme which provides Death In Service protection for all employees.
Regular contributions, expressed as a percentage of employees earnings, are paid into this scheme and are allocated to accounts in the names of the individual members, which are independent of the Groups finances.
There were no outstanding contributions at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Earnings and net assets per share Earnings per share are based on the profit attributable to shareholders and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and treasury shares are excluded from the weighted average number of shares.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2009 2008 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 454.7m 80.3m Weighted average number of shares in issue 483.1m 471.2m Dilutive shares 6.2m 5.6m Adjusted average number of shares in issue 489.3m 476.8m Basic earnings per share 94.1p 17.1p Diluted earnings per share 92.9p 16.9p 185 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 29.
Earnings and net assets per share continued Basic and diluted tangible net assets per share are as follows: 2009 2008 Net assets 1,593.1m 1,216.1m Adjustments for intangible assets 162.8m 110.2m Tangible net assets 1,430.3m 1,105.9m Number of shares in issue at end of period 502.1m 478.6m Adjustment for ESOT shares and treasury shares 8.2m 10.0m Basic number of shares after ESOT and treasury shares adjustment 493.9m 468.6m Net assets per share 322.6p 259.5p Tangible net assets per share 289.6p 236.0p 30.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Group Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2008 of 11.0 pence per ordinary share 51.7 31 December 2007 of 10.0 pence per ordinary share 47.6 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2009 of 6.5 pence per ordinary share 32.1 31 December 2008 of 6.0 pence per ordinary share 28.0 83.8 75.6 A second interim dividend, in lieu of a final ordinary dividend, of 13.5 pence per ordinary share for 2009, amounting to 66.7 million, payable in cash was declared by the Board on 26 February 2010 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2009.
Principal exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in translating foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the production of these financial statements were: Average rate Year end rate 2009 2008 2009 2008 US dollar 1.57 1.85 1.61 1.46 Canadian dollar 1.78 1.96 1.69 1.78 Euro 1.12 1.26 1.13 1.05 32.
Contingent liabilities The Group has no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2009 31 December 2008: nil.
Commitments a Capital commitments There were no capital commitments at the end of the financial year except the commitments made to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP as described in note 36. b Operating lease commitments where the Group companies are the lessees The Group leases various offices under cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give various notice for the termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in note 13.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 m m No later than 1 year 3.8 0.2 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 12.5 0.5 Later than 5 years 7.8 2.1 Total 24.1 2.8 186 www.
Cash generated from operations 2009 2008 Notes m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 509.1 121.6 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 13 4.8 3.3 Amortisation charge 13 4.3 1.4 Finance costs 12 23.0 21.2 Interest received 6 88.1 94.3 Dividends received 6 5.2 11.9 Gains losses on investments realised and unrealised 6 114.2 88.2 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net purchases sales of financial investments 17 11.5 153.9 Exchange losses gains on investments 17 128.0 547.5 Increase in operations classified as held for sale investments 63.7 Increase decrease in loans and receivables 69.0 157.4 Increase decrease in reinsurance contract assets 52.8 100.0 Decrease increase in insurance contract liabilities 98.5 441.0 Increase in trade and other payables 10.0 37.2 Decrease increase in retirement benefits 6.8 1.2 Increase in investments in jointly owned entities 0.5 1.5 Exchange gains losses on long-term borrowings 5.7 18.1 Exchange gains losses on other non-operating assets and liabilities 91.1 250.2 Other non-cash movements 7.8 5.3 Cash generated from operations 324.5 222.4 35.
Principal subsidiary companies The principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2009 which are consolidated in these financial statements, all of which are wholly owned unless otherwise stated, operate in the UK, Bermuda, the US, France, Netherlands and Singapore: Subsidiary undertakings Principal activity Registered in Amlin Underwriting Limited Lloyds managing agency England and Wales Amlin Corporate Services Limited Group service, employing and intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Investments Limited Investment company England and Wales Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Underwriting Services Limited Lloyds service company England and Wales Amlin Plus Limited Lloyds service company England and Wales AUT Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Corporate Member Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales AUT No 2 Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales AUT No 6 Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales AUT No 7 Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales AUT No 8 Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Delian Delta Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Bermuda Ltd Reinsurance company Bermuda Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Lloyds service company Singapore Amlin Illinois, Inc. Service company United States of America Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. Insurance company Netherlands Amlin France SAS Intermediate holding company France Anglo French Underwriters SAS Lloyds coverholder France Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or assets of the Group.
60% owned by the Group 96.53% owned by the Group 187 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 36.
Other Group companies Jointly owned entity During 2008, Amlin Corporate Services Limited invested 1.5 million in a jointly owned entity, Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP.
LCP was established as a new asset management company focused on insurance linked investments.
LCP is incorporated in England and Wales.
The Group holds 50% of the voting rights.
The Group has committed to pay up to a further US$4 million to support the operations of the agency as part of the joint venture agreement.
The Groups share of LCPs profit for the year is nil million.
Summary financial information for LCP is as follows: 2009 m Assets 2.6 Liabilities 1.8 Revenues 1.7 Profit for the year 0.4 2.5 million of LCPs assets are classified as current.
All liabilities are classified as current.
During the year, LCP charged the Group management fees of 1.3 million.
The Group charged LCP 0.2 million under the terms of the service agreement.
At 31 December 2009, the Group held a debtor of 1.0 million due from LCP.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of this debtor and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts from LCP.
Operations held for sale Amlin Bermuda has invested in the Leadenhall Value Insurance Linked Investments Fund plc and the Leadenhall Diversified Insurance Linked Investments Fund plc which were valued at 63.7 million on 31 December 2009.
These funds are managed by LCP and invest in a portfolio of catastrophe bonds and other alternative investments.
Amlin Bermuda Limited is currently the only investor in the two funds but significant third party investment is anticipated in 2010.
There is an expectation that sufficient external investment will be made, giving rise to a deemed disposal of the Groups controlling interest in the fund.
On 21 October 2009, Amlin Bermuda transferred insurance-linked securities worth 46.6 million to the two funds.
These transfers were in partial exchange for the initial investment made by Amlin Bermuda and so no amounts were outstanding at the year end.
No expense was recognised in the period in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from either fund.
During the year, the Group recognised 7.4 million of income from its holding in the funds.
Related party transactions Amlin plc is a publicly owned company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Major shareholders are presented in the Directors Report on page 115.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Key management compensation Key management personnel are those directors and senior managers responsible for planning and control of the activities of the Group.
Key management comprises nine executive directors and employees and seven non-executive directors 2008: sixteen and eight respectively.
Compensation paid during the year to key management personnel is analysed below: 2009 2008 m m Short-term employee benefits 7.7 11.3 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.9 Share-based payments 0.7 0.7 8.8 12.9 Transactions with directors Certain directors of the Company are also directors of other companies, as described in the directors biographical details on page 74 of the Annual Report.
Such other companies and or their subsidiaries may, and in some cases do, conduct business with companies in the Amlin Group, including GeoVera Insurance Holdings Ltd of which Mr Feinstein is a non-executive director and TrygVesta A S of which Mrs Bosse is Group Chief Executive Officer, which both purchase reinsurance or subsidiaries purchase reinsurance from the Amlin Group.
In all cases transactions between the Amlin Group and such other companies are carried out on normal arms length commercial terms.
Shareholder information 201 Reinsurance contracts between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda Ltd ABL Syndicate 2001 placed a number of reinsurance contracts with ABL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
The reinsurance contracts placed with ABL in the year ended 31 December 2009 are: nine proportional treaty reinsurance contracts for marine, direct property, special risks, specie, war, excess of loss treaty, combined hull, cargo and liability and miscellaneous classes of business: a whole account quota share for the 2009 underwriting year: and one excess of loss reinsurance contract for Aviation.
In the year ended 31 December 2009 ABL placed one excess of loss reinsurance contract with Syndicate 2001.
All reinsurance contracts were agreed on an arms length basis with terms that are consistent with those negotiated with third parties.
These reinsurance contracts are eliminated on consolidation of the Groups results and the effects on the income statements of such eliminations can be seen in note 4, segmental reporting under the column Intra-group items.
The amount of gross written premium ceded to ABL during the period ended 31 December 2009 was 157.1 million 2008: 106.0 million being 45.8 million 2008: 36.3 million of specific variable cessions, 110.3 million 2008: 68.9 million of Syndicate 2001 whole account quota share, 0.3 million 2008: 0.8 million on the aviation programme and 0.7 million 2008: nil on the non-marine programme.
ABL recorded a profit of 24.3 million on these reinsurance contracts for the same period 2008: profit 34.9 million.
At 31 December 2009 balances included within ABL with respect to Syndicate 2001 reinsurance contracts include: 2009 2008 m m Insurance receivables 63.8 56.2 Insurance contracts outstanding claims 111.3 102.2 unearned premium 85.9 69.7 creditors arising from insurance operations 23.8 18.7 Cash amounting to 70.4 million 2008: 55.6 million was paid by Syndicate 2001 to ABL in respect of these contracts.
Reinsurance contracts between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI Syndicate 2001 has an arrangement with ACI whereby it can cede reinsurance on individual facultative risk policies with prior agreement.
The value of reinsurance premium ceded in 2009 was 0.2 million.
Syndicate 6106 For the 2009 underwriting year of account, the Group established a Special Purpose Syndicate S 6106 to write a 15% quota share contract of the excess of loss reinsurance account of Syndicate 2001.
The transactions provide external members capital to support 2009 underwriting, enabling Syndicate 2001 to take advantage of strong opportunities in peak zones in the US, Japan and Europe.
Brian Carpenter, a director of the Company, held a 0.07% share of capacity as a Name on S6106.
All transactions with S6106 are undertaken on an arms length basis.
Sale of goods and services The Group, through its wholly owned subsidiary Amlin Corporate Services Limited, purchases goods and services on behalf of all Group companies and Syndicate 2001.
In addition, Amlin plc, the ultimate parent company of the Group, procures certain services.
Amlin plc charges SBA Underwriting Limited 15,000 per annum for accounting and administration services which is collected on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
AUT Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Amlin plc, holds a 30% interest in the parent company and underwriting of SBA Underwriting Limited.
Purchases of goods and services Amlin plc, the ultimate parent company within the Group, purchased goods and services from fellow Group companies.
The values of these are disclosed below.
All goods and services were purchased at cost with the exception of Amlin Bermuda Ltd. 2009 2008 m m Purchases of goods and services: Amlin Corporate Services Limited 15.9 7.7 Amlin Plus Limited Amlin Underwriting Limited and Lycetts Holdings Limited, the owners of Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglass Limited and Lycetts Hamilton Limited, own 60% and 40% respectively of the share capital of Amlin Plus Limited Amlin Plus.
The business of Amlin Plus bloodstock insurance is written under a binding authority agreement with Syndicate 2001, some of which is sourced through a single broker, Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited.
Syndicate 2001 is managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited.
The capacity on Syndicate 2001 is underwritten by a fellow subsidiary in the Amlin Group.
All transactions between Amlin Plus and its related parties are conducted on an arms length basis.
189 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Notes to the Accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 37.
Related party transactions continued During the year Amlin Plus wrote 12.8 million 2008: 15.5 million of premium under the binding authority agreement, of which 6.7 million 2008: 7.7 million was produced by Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglass Limited earning brokerage commission of 1.1 million 2008: 1.1 million on this business.
At the year end, Syndicate 2001 was owed 3.3 million 2008: 4.1 million by Amlin Plus and Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglass Limited owed 1.5 million 2008: 2.3 million to Amlin Plus.
Year end balance with related parties Cash resources are held centrally within the Group.
This eliminates the need for many of the Groups subsidiary companies to maintain bank accounts and optimises the management of cash resources.
As a result of this practice many transactions within the Group are accounted for through intercompany accounts.
The following table shows the balances outstanding at the year end between Amlin plc and its related parties.
The balances are all unsecured and no provisions are required for bad or doubtful debts.
Balances during 2009 Highest Lowest 2009 2008 m m m m Balances outstanding at the year end: Syndicate 2001 3.7 128.7 1.2 0.2 AUT Holdings Limited 27.0 4.7 4.7 Amlin Investments Limited 149.4 149.4 149.4 149.4 St Margarets Insurance Services Limited 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 Amlin Corporate Services Limited 284.0 87.3 152.2 87.6 Amlin Corporate Member Limited 81.8 8.2 4.2 81.8 AUT 1 10 Limited companies 26.0 83.0 26.1 60.2 Delian A L Limited companies 1.0 5.0 1.0 4.9 Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited 355.4 32.5 270.4 32.5 Amlin Underwriting Services Limited 2.9 2.4 2.4 2.9 Amlin Underwriting Limited 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited 0.3 0.3 Amlin Plus Limited 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Amlin Credit Limited 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.8 Amlin Bermuda Ltd 224.4 98.3 Amlin Firebreak No.
1 Limited 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 150.6 11.1 Excludes balances on intra-group reinsurances detailed above.
With the exception of specific loans which have a fixed repayment date all of the above intra-group debt is repayable on demand and corporation tax provisions reflect arms length prices for the transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries.
Acquisition of subsidiaries i Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. On 22 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital and voting rights in Fortis Corporate Insurance N. V. renamed Amlin Corporate Insurance N. V. ACI, for 350.0 million 301.7 million.
ACI is a leading provider of corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The purpose of the acquisition is to expand the Groups non-catastrophe portfolio, providing a Continental European underwriting platform with scope for future growth.
m Purchase consideration: Initial cash consideration 301.7 Direct cost relating to the acquisition 5.5 Total purchase consideration 307.2 Fair value of assets acquired see below 280.0 Goodwill 27.2 190 www.
Shareholder information 201 The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition are as follows: Fair value and Acquirees accounting carrying policy amount adjustments Fair value m m m Cash and cash equivalents 59.6 59.6 Financial assets 1,069.9 1,069.9 Reinsurance assets 189.8 6.4 183.4 Loans and receivables, including insurance receivables 173.2 173.2 Tax assets 21.5 21.5 Intangible assets 26.8 26.8 Property and equipment and other assets 0.4 0.4 Total assets 1,514.4 20.4 1,534.8 Insurance liabilities 1,219.7 28.4 1,191.3 Trade and other payables 14.9 14.9 Tax liabilities 11.0 14.4 25.4 Borrowings 25.9 25.9 Retirement benefit obligations 2.4 5.1 2.7 Total liabilities 1,273.9 19.1 1,254.8 Net assets acquired 240.5 39.5 280.0 The assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date are stated at their provisional fair values and may be amended in 2010 when further evidence of the appropriate fair values is expected to be received, in accordance with paragraph 62 of IFRS 3, Business combinations.
The goodwill shown above arose from the premium paid for strengthening the Groups market position in targeted business segments and acquiring the skilled workforce to drive future profitability in those segments.
No provision for impairment of goodwill has been made at the balance sheet date.
ACI contributed 53.7 million to the Groups profit before tax for the period between 22 July 2009 and 31 December 2009.
If the acquisition of ACI had been completed on the first day of the financial year the Group result for the period would have been a profit before tax of 75.8 million and the gross earned premium would have been 672.8 million.
ii Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited On 30 November 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital and voting rights in Crowe Livestock Underwriting Limited Crowe, an insurance intermediary.
The purchase consideration was an initial 5.6 million with further amounts of between 1.0 million and 4.0 million to be paid in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
The fair value of the net assets acquired was 2.0 million and the fair value of the consideration was 7.4 million, resulting in the recognition of 5.4 million of goodwill on acquisition.
The goodwill arose from the premium paid for diversifying the Groups underwriting portfolio through entry into the livestock insurance market and the opportunity to build on the current bloodstock book.
The fair value of the contingent element of the consideration is based on the forecast performance of the business over the next three years.
Subsequent events On 22 January 2010 the Group acquired the United Kingdom insolvency practitioners insurance business from Lockton for 13.0 million.
