Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Glossary of Terms Accident year Co-insurance Facultative The calendar or accounting year in which In the context of the European insurance Where the insurer accepts risks on an aloss occurs.
market, co-insurance is the joint assumption individual basis.
of risk between a number of insurers.
Actuarial best estimate Gross and net underwriting The result projected from a statistical model Combined ratio When referring to premium written or earned, in which the intention is to be neither Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
losses or underwriting results, these terms prudent nor optimistic.
Actuarial best denote before gross and after net the Commercial combined estimate reserves should be enough to application of reinsurance.
Policies where paythe expected average future liabilities several different types of insurance cover IBNR but include no margin for the emergence arecombined into one policy.
An estimate of claims or losses which ofworse than expected experience.
havebeen incurred but not yet reported Contingent capital AIR tothe insurer.
Contingent capital arrangements provide Service providing up-to-date information the option to raise capital during a defined IFRS and loss estimates for major natural commitment period based upon the International Financial Reporting Standards.
occurrence of a qualifying event, such Incurred loss Beurs asadefined insurance loss.
Paid claims plus claims advised by a The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
Coverholder policyholder but not paid.
Does not Binders Binding authority A company, authorised by a Lloyds includeIBNR.
An authority granted by an active underwriter syndicate, to enter into contracts of Incurred loss ratio to an intermediary whereby that intermediary insurance and or issue insurance Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
is entitled to accept, within certain limits, documentation on their behalf.
insurance business on behalf of members.
Lead non-lead DFA Lead denotes an underwriter in the Box at Lloyds Dynamic Financial Analysis uses a detailed subscription market who sets the terms Accommodation in the underwriting room modelling assessment of the key risks facing and price of a policy.
Following underwriters at Lloyds from which business may be an insurer to help assess its financial position.
accept the policy on the same terms.
Key areas of use include the assessment of capital requirements and understanding the Letter of credit LOC Capacity possible impact of future plans and strategies.
Written undertaking by a financial institution The maximum amount of business which to provide funding if required.
may be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
Direct and facultative Direct property insurance and facultative Line size Catastrophe bonds reinsurance of property.
The monetary limit of a policy for a first claim Risk-based securities that pay high interest accepted by an underwriter.
rates and provide insurance companies Earned premium with a form of reinsurance to pay losses Proportion of insurance premium recognised Line slip from a catastrophe.
They allow insurance in the income statement based on the A facility operated by a Lloyds broker risk to be sold to institutional investors estimated risk period falling in the whereby risks can be bound to a panel of in the form of bonds, thus spreading the financialyear.
insurers through the agreement of a leading risk.
Other financial instruments used to underwriter plus one or two following markets ECF transfer catastrophe risk to capital markets as specified on the slip at placement.
include catastrophe swaps and industry Loss ratio losswarrants.
Endorsement See incurred loss ratio and ultimate Any addition to a policy, or addition to the CDOs lossratio.
printed wording, which changes or varies Collateralised debt obligations.
Entities terms of, or parties to, the contract.
NFIP owning cash generating assets, which sells The National Flood Insurance Program is the rights to the cash flows from those assets Excess of loss reinsurance XL a US federal insurance program providing along with associated risks.
A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss property insurance as protection against paid by the reinsured which is in excess of an Cede flood losses in exchange for floodplain agreed amount and then pays up to the limit To transfer risk from a direct insurer management regulations that reduce of the policy.
Expense ratio Claims ratio Non-life Underwriting expenses divided by net Net claims plus claims expenses divided General insurance companies which sell earnedpremium.
policies other than life insurance, annuities orpension products.
Shareholder information 201 Non-monetary assets & liabilities Retrocession Sub-prime Assets and liabilities that are accounting The reinsurance of liability accepted by way Mortgages provided to home buyers with entries and are not expected to be of reinsurance.
Nearly all sub-prime exchanged for cash such as unearned loans in the US are packaged into mortgage Return on capital ROCE premium reserves.
backed securities for sale to investors.
After tax profit divided by opening shareholders equity plus debt, adjusted Outstanding claims Subscription market forany capital raisings or returns.
Losses which have been reported to the Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby insurer but not yet paid.
underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
Return on equity ROE After tax profit divided by opening Package Surplus shareholders equity, adjusted for any See commercial combined.
The amount by which the gross sum insured capitalraisings or returns.
accepted by the insurance company exceeds Personal lines its own retention.
Risk-based capital Property casualty insurance products Risk-based capital is a method used to thatare designed for and bought by Surplus lines measure the minimum amount of capital individuals, including homeowners A reinsurance where the surplus of the thatan insurance company needs to support andautomobile policies.
reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed its overall business operations taking into amount.
Once accepted, both parties pay account the size and type of risk taken Proportional reinsurance their proportion of losses arising.
A type of reinsurance where the cedinginsurer cedes to its reinsurer a Total shareholder returns RMS predetermined proportion of the premium Returns combining share price performance Risk Management Solutions.
Provider and liability of those policies subject to and dividend payments.
Treaty Run-off Quota share A reinsurance contract covering entire Increase or decrease to claims on old years A form of proportional reinsurance where portfolios of risks.
the reinsurer receives a percentage of every Ultimate loss ratio ULR Service company risk, as defined by the reinsurance contracts, Total forecast claims divided by total forecast A company set up to operate a binding written by the ceding company.
premium expected to arise from a policy or authority on behalf of the Syndicate to Rating agency class of business.
Losses include those paid, write business from non-Lloyds brokers Credit agencies which determine insurers those notified and IBNR.
financial strength and company debt ratings.
Sidecars Underwriting year Realistic disaster scenario RDS Specialty reinsurance companies designed The year to which a policy is allocated to provide additional capital to a specific Modelling of the probable loss which may andtowhich all premiums and claims reinsurance company.
Investors, such arise from a defined catastrophic event.
inrespect of that policy are attributed.
as hedge funds, invest in a reinsurance Allocation is determined by the inception Reinsurance company, the sidecar, to reinsure specific dateof the policy.
A reinsurer risks for a specific reinsurance company.
assumes part of the risk and part of the Unearned premium Solvency II premium originally taken by the insurer, Proportion of insurance premium covering A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime known as the primary company.
periods after the end of the financial year.
which intends to align solvency capital Held in the unearned premium reserve.
Reinsurance to close to an insurers risk profile.
Expected to Premium paid by a closing year of account to US admitted market beimplemented in 2012 13. a later year to cover its outstanding liabilities.
The market provided by insurers who are Special purpose vehicle A reinsurance to close is usually made three licensed to do business in US States.
Corporate entity designed to isolate financial years after the commencement of a year risk, often to allow other investors to XL ofaccount.
Reserves Specie Year of account yoa Funds that have been set aside to meet The insurance of high value items including The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a outstanding claims and IBNR.
deposits, bullion and fine art.
policy is allocated and to which all premiums Retention ratio and claims in respect of that policy are Subordinated debt The percentage of the previous years attributed.
Allocation is determined Subordinated debt is debt that takes a premium that is renewed.
bytheinception date of the policy.
If an issuer is liquidated then subordinated debt holders will only be paid after senior creditors have been fully paid.
