Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe stAteMeNt OF direCtOrs resPONsibilities 29 the AgM will be held on 29 October 2009.
Companies Act 2006 After making enquiries, the Directors References in this Directors report to the are satisfied that the Company and Financial highlights, the Business review, This Directors report on pages 26 to the Group have adequate resources to the Corporate governance report and 29 inclusive has been drawn up and continue to operate for the foreseeable presented in accordance with and the Remuneration report are deemed future and confirm that the Company to be included by reference in this in reliance on English company law and the Group are going concerns.
and the liabilities of the Directors in For this reason they continue to adopt connection with that report shall be the going concern basis in preparing subject to the limitations and restrictions Approved by the Board and signed on these financial statements.
its behalf by provided by such law.
Michael Perman Company Secretary 14 September 2009 statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for b the Business review includes and the Group and to enable them preparing the Annual Report, the a fair review of the development and to ensure that the financial statements Remuneration report and the financial performance of the business and the and the Remuneration report comply statements in accordance with position of the Company and the with the Companies Acts and, as applicable law and regulations.
undertakings included in the consolidation regards the Group financial statements, taken as a whole, together with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are UK company law requires the Directors a description of the principal risks also responsible for safeguarding the to prepare financial statements for each and uncertainties that they face.
assets of the Company and the Group financial year.
and hence for taking reasonable steps In preparing those financial statements, for the prevention and detection of fraud Under that law the Directors have the Directors are required to: and other irregularities.
prepared the Company and the Group s elect suitable accounting policies financial statements in accordance and then apply them consistently: The Directors are responsible for with IFRS.
m ake judgements and estimates the maintenance and integrity of the that are reasonable and prudent: Companys website.
Legislation in In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure s tate that the financial statements the United Kingdom governing the and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
12 comply with IFRS as adopted by preparation and dissemination of the Directors confirm to the best of their the EU: and financial statements may differ from knowledge that: prepare the financial statements legislation in other jurisdictions.
on the going concern basis, unless a the financial statements have it is inappropriate to presume that Michael benson Chairman been prepared in accordance with the the Company and the Group will applicable set of accounting standards, continue in business.
and give a true and fair view of the 14 September 2009 assets, liabilities, financial position The Directors are responsible for keeping and profit or loss of the Company proper accounting records that disclose and the undertakings included in the with reasonable accuracy at any time consolidation taken as a whole: and the financial position of the Company 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
