318 Aviva plc Glossary Annual Report and Accounts 2009 ISAs Product Definitions Individual savings accounts Tax efficient plans Annuities for investing in stocks and shares, cash deposits A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of or life insurance investment funds, subject to benefit, either immediately and for the remainder certain limits.
Introduced in the UK in 1999. of a persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities may be Monolines purchased for an individual and his or her Financial companies specialising in a single line dependents or on a bulk purchase basis for of products such as credit cards, mortgages or groups of people.
Deferred annuities are home equity loans.
accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide benefits in retirement, and may be Mortgage endowment guaranteed, unit-linked or index-linked.
An insurance contract combining savings and protection elements which is designed to repay Bonds and savings the principal of a loan or mortgage.
These are accumulation products with single or regular premiums and unit-linked or Mortgage life insurance guaranteed investment returns.
Our product A protection contract designed to pay off the ranges include single premium investment outstanding amount of a mortgage or loan bonds, regular premium savings plans and in the event of death of the insured.
Non profits Critical illness cover Long-term savings and insurance products Critical illness cover pays out a lump sum if the sold in the UK other than With profits insured person is diagnosed with a serious see definition below products.
illness that meets the plan definition.
The cover is often provided in conjunction with other OEIC Open ended investment company is a collective benefits under a protection contract.
investment fund structured as a limited Deferred annuities company in which investors can buy and An annuity or pension due to be paid from sell shares.
a future date or when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred annuity may be Pensions funded by a policyholder by payment of a series A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and possibly his her dependants.
of regular contributions or by a capital sum the latter often provided from a pension fund.
Our pensions products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder pensions and Group pensions income drawdown.
A pension plan that covers a group of people, Personal pensions which is typically purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which includes the options Guaranteed annuities to stop, start or change their payments.
A policy that pays out a fixed regular amount of benefit for a defined period.
Protection An insurance contract that protects the Income drawdown policyholder or his her dependants against The policyholder can transfer money from any financial loss on death or ill-health.
Our pension fund to an income drawdown plan product ranges include term assurance, from which they receive an income.
The mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life remainder of the pension fund continues to be and critical illness cover.
invested, giving it the potential for growth.
Regular premium Index linked annuities A series of payments are made by the An index linked annuity is a type of deferred policyholder, typically monthly or annually, annuity whose credited interest is linked to an for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
It guarantees a minimum interest rate and protects against a loss of principal.
SICAVs Socit dinvestissement capital variable Investment sales variable capital investment company.
This is Comprise retail sales of mutual fund type an open-ended investment fund, structured products such as unit trusts, individual savings as a legally independent joint stock company, accounts ISAs and Open Ended Investment whose units are issued in the form of shares.
Other information 319 Performance review Aviva plc Glossary continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Product Definitions cont.
General terms Single premium Available for Sale AFS A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder Securities that have been acquired neither at commencement of the contract.
for short-term sale nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on the statement Stakeholder pensions of financial position and changes in value Low cost and flexible pension plans available are taken straight to equity instead of the in the UK, governed by specific regulations.
Superannuation Association of British Insurers ABI Superannuation is a pension product sold in Association of British Insurers A major trade Australia where employers pay a proportion association for UK insurance companies, of an employees salaries and wages into established in July 1985. a fund, which can be accessed when the employee retires.
Acquired value of in force AVIF An estimate of future profits that will emerge Takaful over the remaining term of all existing life and Insurance products that observe the rules and pensions policies for which premiums are being regulations of Islamic law.
paid or have been paid at the statement of financial position date.
Term assurance A simple form of life insurance, offering Bancassurance cover over a fixed number of years during An arrangement whereby banks and building which a lump sum will be paid out if the societies sell insurance and investment life insured dies.
products to their customers on behalf of other financial providers.
Unit trusts A form of open ended collective investment Combined Code on Corporate Governance constituted under a trust deed, in which The Combined Code on Corporate Governance investors can buy and sell units.
sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be Unit-linked annuities directed and controlled to follow good A unit-linked annuity is a type of deferred governance practice.
The Financial Services annuity which is invested in units of investment Authority requires companies listed in the funds, whose value depends directly on the UK to disclose, in relation to the Combined market value of assets in those funds.
Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its Whole life provisions throughout the accounting year.
Whole life insurance is a protection policy that Where the provisions have not been remains in force for the insureds whole life.
complied with, companies must provide Traditional whole life contracts have fixed an explanation for this.
premium payments that typically cannot be missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible Deferred acquisition costs DAC whole life contracts allow the policyholder to The cost directly attributable to the acquisition vary the premium and or amount of life cover, of new business for insurance and participating within certain limits.
investment contracts excluding those written in the UK are deferred to the extent that they With profits are expected to be recoverable out of future A type of long-term savings and insurance margins in revenue on these contracts.
product sold in the UK Under with profits policies premiums are paid into a separate Fair value fund.
Policyholders receive a return on their The price that a reasonable buyer would be policies through bonuses, which smooth willing to pay and a reasonable seller would the investment return from the assets which be willing to accept for a product on the premiums are invested in.
Bonuses are declared open market.
on an annual and terminal basis.
Shareholders have a participating interest in the with-profit FSA funds and any declared bonuses.
Generally, The UKs Financial Services Authority Main policyholder and shareholder participation in regulatory body appointed by the government with-profit funds in the UK is split 90:10. to oversee the financial services industry in the UK.
Since December 2001 it has been the Wrap investments single statutory regulator responsible for the An account in which a broker or fund manager savings, insurance and investment business.
executes investment decisions on behalf of a client in exchange for a single quarterly or annual fee, usually based on the total assets in the account rather than the number of transactions.
320 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Long-term and savings business General terms cont.
Collective term for life insurance, pensions, Funds under management savings, investments and related business.
Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or on behalf of the Group Market Consistent Embedded Value including those funds managed by third parties.
Avivas Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV methodology which is in accordance Funds under management by Aviva with the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Represents all assets actively managed or Forum in June 2008 with the exception of the administered by the fund management use of an adjusted risk-free yield due to current operations of the Group.
market conditions for immediate annuities in the UK and the Netherlands and for immediate General insurance annuity, deferred annuity and other contracts Also known as non-life or property and casualty in the US.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury Net written premiums to other people or damage property of others.
Total gross written premiums for the given Property insurance covers loss or damage period, minus premiums paid over or ceded through fire, theft, flood, storms and other to reinsurers.
Present value of new business PVNBP Gross written premiums Present value of new regular premiums plus The total earnings or revenue generated by 100% of single premiums, calculated using sales of insurance products, before any assumptions consistent with those used to reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all determine the value of new business under premiums written will necessarily be treated Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV as income in the current financial year, principles published by the CFO Forum of because some of them could relate to major European listed and non-listed insurance cover for a subsequent period.
Hard insurance market Soft insurance market A term used to describe the state of the A term used to describe the state of the general insurance market.
A hard insurance general insurance market.
A soft insurance market is characterised by high levels of market is characterised by low levels of underwriting profits and the ability of insurers profitability and market competition driving to charge high premium rates.
Hard insurance premium rates lower.
Soft insurance markets markets generally occur when capital is generally occur when there is excess capital and scarce and are the opposite of soft are the opposite of hard insurance markets.
Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control Independent Financial Advisers IFAs The Turnbull guidance sets out best practice on A person or organisation authorised to give internal controls for UK listed companies, and advice on financial matters and to sell the provides additional guidance in applying certain products of all financial service providers.
In the sections of the Combined Code.
UK they are legally obliged to offer the product that best suits their clients needs.
Outside Market Consistent Embedded Value the UK IFAs may be referred to by other names.
MCEV terms IFRS Asymmetric risk International Financial Reporting Standards.
Risks that will cause shareholder profits to vary These are accounting regulations designed to where the variation above and below the ensure comparable statement of financial average are not equal in distribution.
position preparation and disclosure, and are the standards that all publicly listed companies in CFO Forum the European Union are required to use.
nl is a highlevel group formed by the Chief Financial Inherited estate Officers of major European listed and non-listed In the UK, the assets of the long-term withinsurance companies.
Its aim is to discuss issues profit funds less the realistic reserves for non relating to proposed new accounting profit policies, less asset shares aggregated regulations for their businesses and how they across the with-profit policies and any can create greater transparency for investors.
additional amounts expected at the valuation The Forum was created in 2002, the Market date to be paid to in-force policyholders Consistent Embedded Value principles were in the future in respect of smoothing costs launched in June 2008 and CFO Forum and guarantees.
members across Europe have agreed to adopt these for their 2009 published accounts.
The principles are a further development of the European Embedded Value principles first launched in May 2004.
Other information 321 Performance review Aviva plc Glossary continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Implicit items Market Consistent Embedded Value Amounts allowed by local regulators to be MCEV terms cont.
deducted from capital amounts when Cost of non-hedgeable risks determining the EU required minimum margin.
This is the cost of undertaking those risks for which a deep and liquid market in which to Inherited estate hedge that risk does not exist.
This can include The assets of the long-term with-profit funds both financial risks and non-financial risks such less the realistic reserves for non-profit policies, as mortality, persistency and expense.
less asset shares aggregated across the withprofit policies and any additional amounts Covered business expected at the valuation date to be paid to The contracts to which the MCEV methodology in-force policyholders in the future in respect has been applied.
of smoothing costs and guarantees.
EU solvency Life business The excess of assets over liabilities and the Subsidiaries selling life and pensions contracts worldwide minimum solvency margins, that are classified as covered business excluding goodwill and the additional value of under MCEV.
in-force long-term business, and excluding the surplus held in the groups life funds.
The Life MCEV group solvency calculation is determined The MCEV balance sheet value of covered according to the UK Financial Services business as at the reporting date.
Excludes Authority application of EU Insurance non-covered business including pension Groups Directive rules.
Financial options and guarantees Life MCEV operating earnings Features of the covered business conferring Operating earnings on the MCEV basis relating potentially valuable guarantees underlying, to the lines of business included in the or options to change, the level or nature of embedded value calculations.
From continuing policyholder benefits and exercisable at the operations and is stated before tax, impairment discretion of the policyholder, whose potential of goodwill and exceptional items.
value is impacted by the behaviour of financial variables.
Life MCEV earnings Total earnings on the MCEV basis relating to Free surplus the lines of business included in the embedded The amount of any capital and surplus value calculations.
allocated to, but not required to support, the in-force covered business.
Look-through basis Inclusion of the capitalised value of profits and Frictional costs losses arising from subsidiary companies The additional taxation and investment costs providing administration, investment incurred by shareholders through investing management and other services to the extent the Required Capital in the Company that they relate to covered business.
Long-term savings Funds under management Includes life and pension sales calculated under Represents all assets actively managed or MCEV and retail investment sales.
administered by or on behalf of the group including those funds managed by third parties.
Market consistent A measurement approach where economic Group MCEV assumptions are such that projected asset cash A measure of the total consolidated value of flows are valued consistently with current the group with covered life business included market prices for traded assets.
on an MCEV basis and non-covered business including pension schemes and goodwill Net asset value per ordinary share included on an IFRS basis.
Net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net asset value is Gross risk-free yields based on equity shareholders funds.
Gross of tax yields on risk-free fixed interest investments, generally swap rates under MCEV.
Net worth The market value of the shareholders funds IFRS operating profit and the shareholders interest in the surplus From continuing operations on an IFRS basis, held in the non-profit component of the longstated before tax attributable to shareholders term business funds, determined on a statutory profits, impairment of goodwill and solvency basis and adjusted to add back any exceptional items.
non-admissible assets, and consists of the required capital and free surplus.
322 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Stochastic techniques Market Consistent Embedded Value Techniques that incorporate the potential MCEV terms cont.
New business margin New business margins are calculated as the Symmetric risks value of new business divided by the present Risks that will cause shareholder profits to value of new business premiums PVNBP, and vary where the variation above and below the expressed as a percentage.
average are equal and opposite.
Financial theory says that investors do not require Present value of new business compensation for non-market risks that are premiums PVNBP symmetrical as the risks can be diversified Present value of new regular premiums plus away by investors.
100% of single premiums, calculated using assumptions consistent with those used to Time value and intrinsic value determine the value of new business.
A financial option or guarantee has two elements of value, the time value and intrinsic Required capital value.
The intrinsic value is the discounted value The amount of assets, over and above the of the option or guarantee at expiry, assuming value placed on liabilities in respect of covered that future economic conditions follow best business, whose distribution to shareholders estimate assumptions.
The time value is the is restricted.
additional value arising from uncertainty about future economic conditions.
Risk-free rate reference rate in CFO Forum terminology Value of new business In stable markets, including the period from Is calculated using economic assumptions 31 December 2006 to 30 June 2007, the riskset at the start of each quarter and the same free rate is taken as the swap curve yield.
operating assumptions as those used to In current markets, including the period from determine the embedded values at the end 1 July 2007, the risk-free rate is taken as swaps of the reporting period and is stated after except for all contracts that contain features the effect of any frictional costs.
Unless similar to immediate annuities and are backed otherwise stated, it is also quoted net of by appropriate assets, including paid up group tax and minority interests.
deferred annuities in the Netherlands, and deferred annuities and all other contracts in the US.
The adjusted risk-free rate is taken as swaps plus the additional return available for products and where backing asset portfolios can be held to maturity.
Service companies Companies providing administration or fund management services to the covered business.
Solvency cover The excess of the regulatory value of total assets over total liabilities, divided by the regulatory value of the required minimum solvency margin.
Spread business Contracts where a significant source of shareholder profits is the taking of credit spread risk that is not passed on to policyholders.
The most significant spread business in Aviva are immediate annuities and US deferred annuities and life business.
Statutory basis The valuation basis and approach used for reporting financial statements to local regulators.
