Other information 323 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Shareholder services Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Shareholder profile The categories of shareholders and the range and size of shareholding as at 31 December 2009 are set out below: Analysis of shareholders No.
Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary Aviva plc shares.
Group financial calendar for 2010 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2010 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 11 May 2010 Announcement of unaudited half-year results 05 August 2010 Announcement of third quarter Interim Management Statement 04 November 2010 Holders of ordinary and preference shares receive their dividends in Annual General Meeting sterling and holders of ADRs will receive any dividends paid by the Avivas Annual General Meeting will be held at: Company in US dollars.
The Barbican Centre Ordinary shares 2009 final dividend Silk Street Ex-dividend date 24 March 2010 London Record date 26 March 2010 EC2Y 8DS Scrip dividend price setting period 24, 25, 26, 29, 30 March 2010 Scrip dividend price announcement date 31 March 2010 on: Wednesday Last date for receipt of Scrip elections 16 April 2010 28 April 2010 Dividend payment date 17 May 2010 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the at 11.00am proposed dividend date for ordinary shareholders.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the meeting, is available on the Share price Companys website at www.
com agm You can access the current share price of Aviva plc ordinary shares If you are unable to attend the meeting but would like and ADRs at www.
com shareprice to ask the Board of Directors a question regarding the If you would like to find out the price of Aviva preference business of the meeting, please do so via our website at shares, please visit the London Stock Exchange website via www.
Alternatively, you can write to us www.
com preferenceshares for a direct link.
directly either by email to agm.
com or by post to the Group Company Secretary, Freepost RLTE-RBXX-RBHB, Be on your guard beware of fraudsters Group Secretarial Department, Aviva plc, St Helens, In recent years, many companies have become aware that 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ.
Answers to the most their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or frequently asked questions will be available at the meeting correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically and published on our website shortly after.
from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, The voting results for the 2010 AGM, including proxy offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high votes and votes withheld, will be accessible on our website risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are at www.
com agm, shortly after the meeting.
commonly known as boiler rooms.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Dividends advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company Dividends on our ordinary shares are normally paid in May reports.
If you receive any unsolicited advice: and November: please see the following table for 2009 final Make sure you get the correct name of the person and dividend dates.
Dividends paid on our preference shares are organisation normally paid in March, June, September and December: Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before please visit www.
com preferenceshares for the latest getting involved by visiting www.
uk register dividend payment dates.
324 Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 Internet sites 5000 calls should cost no more than 01 or 02 UK-wide Aviva owns various internet sites, most of which interlink with calls, and are included in inclusive mobile and landline each other: minutes.
If calling from overseas, please dial 44 20 7066 1000 or visit www.
uk Aviva Group If the calls persist, hang up.
com More detailed information on this can be found on the UK Long-term savings and general insurance FSA website www.
co. uk Asset management Online Shareholder Services Centre www.
com shareholderservices Aviva worldwide internet sites The online shareholder services centre has been designed www.
com websites to meet the specific needs of our shareholders, preference shareholders and our American Depositary Receipt ADR Other useful links for shareholders: holders and includes features to allow you to manage your Aviva Shareholder Services Centre holding in Aviva easily and efficiently.
com shareholderservices Within the online centre you will be able to find our American Depositary Receipt holders current and historic ordinary and ADR share prices, www.
com adr sharedealing information, news, updates, and when Aviva preference shareholders available, presentations from the Group Chief Executive.
com preferenceshares You will also be able to download an electronic copy of Dividend information any current and past reports.
There is also a range of www.
com dividends frequently asked questions on holding ordinary shares, Annual General Meeting information preference shares and ADRs in Aviva, which include www.
com agm practical help on transferring shares, dealing facilities Electronic voting for Annual General Meeting and updating personal details.
com agm Aviva Share Price Alternative format www.
com shareprice If you would like to request a copy of our reports in an This service will only be available until 48 hrs before the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
alternative format, for example, braille or audio, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, by calling 0871 384 2953.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs Avivas ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and our Form 20-F stock is traded as American Depositary Shares ADS.
Aviva Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the US and as such is maintains a Level II ADR facility in the US, with each ADS subject to the reporting requirements of the US Securities representing two 2 Aviva plc ordinary shares.
Aviva has a and Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form 20-F sponsored ADR facility administered by Citibank, NA.
Any queries with the SEC, copies of which can be found at regarding Aviva ADRs can be directed to Citibank by post, www.
com reports telephone or email.
Managing your shareholding Citibank Shareholder Services If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Aviva PO Box 43077 please contact our Registrar, Equiniti.
Please quote Aviva plc, Providence, Rhode Island as well as the name and address in which the shares are USA 02940-5000 held, and your Shareholder Reference Number, which you will find on your latest dividend stationery.
com Equiniti Telephone: Aspect House 1 877 248 4237 toll free for callers within the US Spencer Road 1 781 575 4555 for callers outside of the US Lancing Fax inquiries: West Sussex 1 201 324 3284 BN99 6DA For information about Avivas ADR programme, please go to Telephone: www.
com dr for additional reference.
com Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone providers may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
co. uk Board photography by Marcus Ginns This document is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, which is a recycled grade containing 100% post consumer waste and manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO14001 environmental management standard.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free process ECF.
This document was printed by Butler Tanner and Dennis who are FSC, PEFC and ISO14001 accredited.
Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686 Regional overviews Global presence, local understanding 10 UK A leader in our home market 14 Europe Building a truly pan-European business with a broad and diverse portfolio 18 North America Poised to benefit from recovery in the worlds wealthiest market 21 Asia Paci c Committed to building a high-growth and value-creating region 24 Aviva investors Focused on clients, focused on performance This is Aviva.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Group 01 structure Aviva today Financial 02 summary 03 Chairmans introduction In 2007 we set our strategy to grow and In good shape for the new decade 04 Group chief executives review transform Aviva to compete on a global A year of signi cant progress 06 Group strategy scale.
Nearly three years on, despite One Aviva, Twice the Value 07 Key performance indicators difficult market conditions, every day Delivering consistent performance 08 Board and executive team around the world we continue working 10 Regional overviews Global presence, local understanding to realise our vision One Aviva, Twice UK Europe the Value.
By working together closely, North America Asia Paci c Aviva investors we are transforming our business, 27 Summary CR report optimising our performance and Summary 30 financial statements Shareholder 36 information maximising the value we generate for all our stakeholders.
This year we have created a suite of three Our Annual Report and reporting channels which can be seen at accounts is available online www.
To help us and to download.
minimise our paper usage and our impacts You can view our Annual Report here on the environment, if you havent already www.
com 2009ara done so, we would encourage all of our shareholders to opt to receive our reporting documents electronically.
Please sign up for electronic communications here www.
com ecomms In our online Annual Review, you will see exclusive interviews of the Group chief executive and members of our Executive management team.
You can view our Annual Review here www.
com 2009review In our online Corporate Responsibility Report you can find out more about our commitment to acting as a responsible member of the international business community.
You can view our Corporate Responsibility Report here www.
com 2009cr 01 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Group structure North Asia Aviva UK Europe America Pacific Investors Products Products Products Products Products Long-term insurance Long-term insurance Long-term insurance Long-term insurance Our investment capabilities, and savings: pensions, and savings: protection, and savings: protection, and savings: protection, products and services annuities, protection, bonds and savings, annuity, savings, wellness bonds and savings, comprise: bonds and savings, pensions General insurance: pensions alternatives equity release General insurance: motor, personal: auto, home, General insurance: equities General insurance: home, travel, commercial, niche products personal and commercial fixed income personal: motor, home, agricultural, construction, commercial: motor, motor and property global investment travel, breakdown RAC, marine property, liability Health solutions commercial: motor, Health real estate property, liability Health Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Distribution Bancassurance Bancassurance Independent marketing Bancassurance Business to business Corporate partnerships Corporate partnerships organisations IFAs Wholesale distributors IFAs brokers IFAs brokers agents Brokers agents Direct phone online Asset allocators Direct phone online Direct phone online Direct sales force IFAs fund platforms Direct sales force Institutional pensions Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees 21,663 16,038 5,247 1,599 1,311 2008: 28,424 2008: 16,501 2008: 5,627 2008: 2,376 2008: 1,298 More on regional performance 10 26 4 Aviva Investors UK European Locations North American Asia Pacific Locations Australia Our life and general Belgium Locations Australia Canada insurance businesses are Czech Republic Canada China China based in York and Norwich France United States Hong Kong France respectively, with operations Germany India Germany spread across the UK.
We Hungary Malaysia Ireland also have overseas operations Ireland Singapore Italy in India and Sri Lanka Italy South Korea Luxembourg Lithuania Sri Lanka Poland Netherlands Taiwan Romania Poland Singapore Romania Spain Russia Taiwan Slovakia United Kingdom Spain United States Turkey Delta Lloyd operations Australia business disposed of on 1 October 2009 02 Aviva plc Aviva is the worlds fifth largest insurance group Annual Review 2009 Financial summary providing insurance, savings and investment products to 53 million customers across Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
We are the largest insurance services provider in the UK and one of the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
For full details of our Worldwide sales MCEV operating profit financial results visit www.
com 2009reports 45,068m 3,483m Summary financial statements 30 35 4 12 % 3% IFRS operating profit IFRS total return after tax 2,022m 1,315m 12 % 2008: 885 m Full year dividend Equity shareholders funds 24.00p 13,035m 27 % 1 % From continuing operations, including share of associates premiums Before tax attributable to shareholders On a MCEV basis 03 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Chairmans introduction In good shape for the new decade Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman Dear Shareholder Read more on the It is traditional for the Chairman to close his statement by formally thanking employees.
inherited estate This year, however, I think its more appropriate to begin by saying that our strong results reattribution for 2009 are due to the extraordinary efforts made by the executive team and our people 10 13 4 throughout the Aviva group.
A strong, single brand name is essential for us to compete effectively in the global Read more about insurance marketplace so the launch of the Aviva name worldwide in 2009 was fundamental.
our Dutch IPO This was just one of a number of key deliverables during the year including: a successful partial 14 17 4 sale of our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd, and the distribution of monies to our policyholders from the UK inherited estate.
In a year of business as usual, these would have been great achievements, so I am extremely proud that, through 2009s adverse conditions, at Aviva we have remained strong, resolute and on track.
2010 is unlikely to be any easier but were now in an even better position to take advantage of new opportunities, and of achieving our vision for One Aviva, Twice the Value.
Dividend I am pleased to announce that the final dividend for 2009 will be 15 pence, bringing the total dividend to 24 pence.
This follows our decision last year to reduce the dividend to a sustainable level, from which Aviva can grow over time.
Our dividend policy remains unchanged and the final dividend cover of 1.8 times remains within the 1.5 to 2.0 times target range, which is based on IFRS operating earnings after tax.
Changes to the Board Read more about our I would like to thank Philip Scott, who retired from his role as chief financial officer CFO at Board members the end of 2009 with an impressive 36 years service with Aviva.
With his knowledge of the 08 09 4 insurance industry, he has successfully navigated us through some difficult market conditions.
In February 2010, we welcomed Patrick Regan as our new CFO.
He joined us from Willis Group Holdings in the US where he was group chief operating officer and CFO.
We further strengthened our Board with the appointment of Andrea Moneta, chief executive of Aviva Europe, Middle East and Africa, in September 2009.
Other Board changes include: the retirement after nearly ten years of our senior independent non-executive director, Wim Dik: the resignation of Nikesh Arora, due to relocation to the United States: the appointment of new independent non-executive directors, Leslie Van fide Walle, former chief executive officer of Rexam plc, who joined us in May 2009 and, from January 2010, Michael Hawker, who was previously chief executive and managing director of Insurance Australia Group.
Looking forward As a realist, I am sure that 2010 will not be an easy year for the financial markets but there may be some cause for optimism as the year progresses.
I am particularly pleased at how well we have reorganised the business and are ready to take full advantage of the upturn when it arrives.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman 04 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Group chief executives review A year of significant progress Andrew Moss Group chief executive Im pleased with our progress this year.
It has been a year Progress of strong financial performance and delivery against our Creating a global brand has been the most visible strategic plans.
Im proud of the way my team has performed sign of One Aviva so far.
Were working hard to and Im confident that by remaining focused on our strategy ensure its much more than a name change.
Were making progress towards delivering we will make further progress in 2010.
Twice the Value improving the way we serve our customers, increasing our efficiency, Aviva has delivered a strong return to profit with IFRS total profit after focusing on profitability, removing cost from tax at 1,315 million.
On an MCEV basis, which takes into account the the business and delivering strong results.
long-term nature of life insurance business, the total profit after tax was 2,935 million compared to a loss of 7,707 million in 2008.
This Regions rebound in total profits reflects the combined effects of a recovery in Successful rebrand to Aviva in the UK equity markets, together with our disciplined business management Integrating 12 of our businesses in Europe and cost control.
Operating profit is 12% lower at 2,022 million on Life assurance portfolio outperforms market an IFRS basis and up 3% on an MCEV basis to 3,483 million.
in North America We have strengthened Avivas capital position substantially over Expanded customer reach in Asia Pacific the past year and IGD solvency surplus, the buffer we hold above our through new bancassurance deals liabilities, has more than doubled to 4.5 billion reflecting some bold Improved investment and earnings capital management initiatives and a recovery in investment markets.
performance for Aviva Investors We have made excellent progress in the delivery of our strategy, including our move to a single brand, the IPO of our Dutch business, Highlights the reattribution of the inherited estate in the UK and the restructuring Improved financial strength with IGD of our cost base.
solvency more than doubled in 2009 In driving Aviva forward, we will retain our disciplined approach.
Successful partial sale of Delta Lloyd We expect the external environment to remain unpredictable for some in the Netherlands for 1 billion time but are encouraged that we saw the first signs of an improved Sale of Australian life business appetite to save among our customers in the final quarter of last year.
471 million paid to policyholders We will continue to deliver against the strategy that has helped us from reattribution of inherited estate to navigate the global economic crisis so successfully.
We will maximise Read more about our the value of being a single, global group, as we aim to deliver a consistently regional performance positive experience for our 53 million customers around the world.
10 26 4 For more information on our strategy 06 4 05 Aviva plc Group chief executives review continued Annual Review 2009 How has Aviva performed How is your business changing?
We have made Q. throughout a difficult 2009?
Like all financial services companies, In 2008 we initiated a programme to good progress we have been affected adversely, both create a simplified and more modern towards our by market volatility and understandable way of doing business to improve customer caution.
However, the business efficiency and reflect customers target this year has stood up well.
This is due, in part, to preference to do business online: our global diversity, having both life and weve invested in new technology general insurance operations and also and streamlined our processes.
because of the decisive action we have This fundamental change in the taken through the strategy put in place way we operate means our business two years ago.
is now fit for the future, with improved Several months into 2010, we have capacity and productivity.
We have made great progress in transforming our reduced our costs by 500 million and UK business under one team.
We are also Aviva has 19% fewer employees than starting to see positive results from the two years ago.
creation of our one Europe operating Whats really pleasing is that during model.
In North America, the life market this period our customer satisfaction has been really challenged and its good has improved, with nearly 70% of our to see that coming back.
In Asia Pacific, businesses at or above the local market despite customers being cautious, we benchmark and 50% are in the have continued to grow our business, upper quartile.
particularly in China and South Korea.
What are you most proud Aviva Investors investment performance Q. of in 2009?
has radically improved along with Listen to Andrew discuss our Im most proud of our people: their solid earnings.
year in our new online review dedication and resilience over the past How nancially strong is Aviva?
Watch video here year has been incredible.
com 2009review remained focused on what were here Weve seen a marked improvement in for delivering prosperity and peace our capital position.
Focusing on costs of mind to our customers and have in order to improve margins has meant done a great job.
Read about what our regions have been doing that, whilst we have seen volumes drop, Ive already talked about our we still reported a resilient operating 10 26 financial strength and the strategically 4 profit and a strong balance sheet.
We significant achievements in our business.
have worldwide sales of 45 billion and However, none of this could have been See the financial summary statements 379 billion of funds under management.
done without the hard work of all of 30 35 We are managing our financial risks 4 our people around the world.
Why did you cut your dividend you sum up your priorities Q. mid-year?
In light of Avivas lower IFRS operating Theres no question that the economic earnings, the continuing economic climate remains uncertain: 2010 is still uncertainty and our desire to retain challenging but Im confident we have flexibility, we felt it was the right decision the right team, strategy and commitment to make.
So in spite of it being a tough to make it another successful year.
decision, we believe it was the right one.
We will continue to deliver our strategy, maintain our capital strength and focus Do you remain committed to on the profitable growth of our company.
Q. your One Aviva, Twice the 53 million customers place their Value strategy?
Thats a great We have made good progress towards responsibility and we will be working our target this year.
If you compare harder than ever in 2010 to continue earnings per share of 37.8 pence in 2009 to earn their trust and attract new with those of 2008 a loss of 36.8 pence, customers to Aviva.
In the past 12 months weve increased the pace of transformation and restructured our portfolio, giving us new opportunities to redeploy capital to Andrew Moss support profitable growth.
Group chief executive Our senior management team is committed to this target and it remains our focus in 2010.
06 Aviva plc Our purpose is to deliver prosperity and peace of Annual Review 2009 Group strategy mind to our customers.
We will do this by realising our vision: One Aviva, Twice the Value Outperforming On track Some slippage Our strategic priorities Progress What to expect in 2010 Active management of our composite model: Manage GI for value and cash flow Manage composite portfolio F ocused on profitability above sales volume Drive profitable growth and long-term value in our life and pensions and general creation in the life and pensions business We are committed to maintaining insurance businesses Strategically manage our investment in the composite nature of the group: Robust performance in Europe benefiting Delta Lloyd our business model creates long-term from our strong bancassurance relationships Successfully progress restructuring of our Strengthened position in Asia: growth in European division to create a single business value delivering prosperity and peace China [15%] and Korea [93%]: withdrawal benefiting from increased use of shared of mind to customers.
of capital intensive products in Hong Kong services and a simplified, more integrated and Taiwan corporate structure Brought UK life and general insurance Grow Aviva Investors worldwide businesses together under a single management team Grew Aviva Investors worldwide See below Robust investment performance across Continue to drive robust and consistent Build global asset all key manufacturing entities worldwide investment performance P ositive net flows of 2.4 billion from third Further develop the global integration of our management party clients in difficult market conditions business across mature and emerging markets Aviva Investors is a leading asset E nhanced our global distribution and Focus on our client centric solutions driven manufacturing capability investment approach manager, with 250 billion of funds M ade progress in building a global business Continue our focus on attracting third party under management.
We plan to development capability business and cross border sales continue to grow Aviva Investors and T op quartile ranking in the most recent Further enhance business effectiveness and UK Greenwich Quality Index nurture high performance culture significantly increase its contribution to group profits.
Strengthened our capital position through Maintain a strong balance sheet Allocate capital rigorously combination of successful strategic initiatives Continued focus on strong capital management Capital management remains a key and capital management: and financial flexibility Ro bust underlying earnings rebuilding Monitor and manage market and operational risks focus with funds allocated to provide our capital base Continue to allocate capital effectively the highest sustainable returns.
We IPO of Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands Participate actively in all consultations with continuously seek improvements in Sale of Australian business European regulators to develop an appropriate Reattribution of inherited estate in UK outcome for Solvency II regulations capital structure and efficiency.
I mplemented initiatives to improve the Continue to invest in our brand and improving Multi-channel customer reach customer experience and support the customer experience to increase customer We sell our products in 28 countries in Aviva brand promise and rebrand campaign advocacy and consumer demand for our products in the UK Continue to focus on developing new products the ways that our customers choose to I nvested in our e-commerce capabilities to suit our customers changing needs buy them.
We will continue looking for in the UK Continue to increase customer access through the right distribution in the right markets.
F urther value from bancassurance with our multi-channel distribution approach sales growth of 14% in Aviva Europe 5 0% of all participating business units ranked upper quartile by customers when compared to local market averages Achieved 510 million of cost savings Focus on strong cost discipline through Boost productivity against 500 million target reducing operational complexity and simplifying Developed a leaner operating model product ranges We constantly look for ways to boost through increased regional shared services Continued focus on expense management and our productivity, to support sustainable and implementation of centres of excellence customer retention growth, increase our competitiveness, Outsourced a number of operations Continue executing our tailored shared services strategy including: improve our services and deliver higher regional service centres, centres of excellence value to our customers.
and shared processes globally consistent operating models for IT, HR, finance, risk, procurement and marketing Increased use of outsourcing where appropriate Read more about risk In support of our purpose and vision, Aviva provides a composite portfolio of management online at insurance, savings and investment products through a diverse distribution model www.
com which reduces reliance on any one channel, product, country or customer group.
Our strategy and priorities need to be responsive to changes in the external For more on environment that may provide opportunities or cause strategic risks.
We manage regional strategies these risks and opportunities through disciplined risk management.
10 26 4 07 Aviva plc In 2009, the groups strategy was underpinned by Annual Review 2009 Key performance focusing on a number of key financial performance indicators measures.
The key measures that are used to assess performance at a group level are set out below: Our key performance indicators Relevancy Performance 4 Earnings per share To demonstrate our commitment to One Aviva, Twice the Value we are aiming to double earnings 37.8p IFRS earnings per share for 2009 increased to per share by 2012.
This mainly reflects the improvement in financial markets in 2009 partly offset by lower IFRS operating profits.
Our intention is to pay a dividend on a basis judged Proposed ordinary dividend 24.00p: prudent using dividend cover of 1.5 2.0 times, per share and dividend cover while retaining capital to fund future growth.
4 1.8 times The total dividend for the year is 24.00 pence 2008: 33.00p: per share.
This is in line with last years decision 1.9 times to reduce the dividend to a sustainable level from which it can grow.
We aim to achieve steady sustainable growth in our IFRS: Group operating profit operating profit, both on a MCEV and IFRS basis.
before tax In seeking to achieve this growth, we continue to 2,022m adopt strict financial management disciplines 2008: 2,297m 2009 operating profits reflect higher long-term underpinned by strong corporate governance.
4 and savings results both IFRS and MCEV offset 4 MCEV: by lower general insurance and health profits and increased group debt costs.
3,483m 2008: 3,367m While our focus is on capital efficiency and profit Worldwide sales 45,068m rather than volumes, sales remain an important Sales were lower in both long-term and savings indicator.
Worldwide sales comprise the PVNBP 2008: 51,377m 4 of long-term savings new business sales and net and general insurance mainly reflecting the tough written premiums from the general insurance and economic environment and our focus on writing health businesses.
for profit rather than volume in general insurance.
4 Return on equity shareholders funds is calculated Return on equity shareholders funds 16.2% as after-tax operating return, before adjusting The improvement in return on equity reflects the items, on opening equity shareholders funds, 2008: 11.0% including life profits on a market consistent increase in the post-tax MCEV operating profit and embedded value MCEV basis.
the impact of lower opening equity shareholders funds following falls in asset values in 2008.
Employee engagement represents the degree to Engagement: Employee engagement which people believe in Aviva being a great place and leadership to work and are contributing to help meet our 64% collective goals and ambitions.
Employee KPIs are now based on more robust GFS norm: 72% 4 scale and against stronger benchmarks.
As weve Leadership: changed our supplier, historical data is not comparable and has therefore been removed.
64% GFS norm: 65% 4 3 Customer advocacy gives us, in a single, simple Customer advocacy 67% measure, an accurate predictor of customer 24 businesses took part in our 2009 Net Promoter retention and cross-selling opportunity.
16 met or exceeded the benchmark with 12 in the upper quartile.
The ratio beating benchmark is the same as 2008: however, more businesses are in the upper quartile rankings.
For full details of our financial results visit www.
com reports 08 Aviva plc The Board is responsible to the shareholders Annual Review 2009 Board and for ensuring that the Company is appropriately executive team managed and achieves its objectives.
The Board determines strategic direction, reviews performance and provides support and expertise to the executive management team, responsible for the day to day management of the Company.
Board of directors 1 2 6 10 3 7 11 4 8 12 5 9 13 Also members of the Executive management team Executive management team Andrew Moss 1 3 5 Group chief executive Patrick Regan Chief financial officer Mark Hodges Executive director, Chief executive Aviva UK Andrea Moneta Executive director, 2 4 6 Chief executive Aviva Europe, Middle East and Africa 09 Aviva plc Board and executive team continued Annual Review 2009 Chairman of the committee Member of the committee Corporate responsibility committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Risk and regulatory committees Audit committee 1.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 2.
Euleen Goh Chairman Age 67 Group chief executive Age 52 Senior independent nonIndependent non-executive Appointed Jan 2006 Appointed May 2004 executive director Age 67 director Age 54 Chairman since Jan 2006.
Currently Group chief executive since July Appointed May 2004 Appointed Jan 2009 an independent non-executive 2007.
Previously group finance Currently non-executive director of Currently non-executive director of director of BG Group plc utility director and has held senior finance the Warnaco Group Inc clothing Singapore Airlines Limited transport, and Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
positions at Lloyds of London and several investment trusts.
Has DBS Bank Limited, DBS Group Previously held non-executive insurance and HSBC banking.
held senior executive and finance Holdings Ltd banking and the positions in several other industries.
positions at American Express Singapore Exchange Limited.
Patrick Regan Company financial services and chief executive officer of Standard Graham Jones Chief financial officer Age 44 NatWest Group plc banking.
Chartered Bank in Singapore banking.
Group company secretary Appointed Feb 2010 Former member of the Accounting Previously group chief financial 11.
Leslie Van fide Walle Standards Board UK.
officer and group chief operating Independent non-executive officer at Willis Group Holdings Ltd 7.
Mary Francis CBE director Age 53 insurance broking.
Has also held Independent non-executive Appointed May 2009 senior finance and management director Age 61 Former chief executive officer of positions at RSA plc, Axa Insurance Appointed Oct 2005 Rexam plc packaging.
Has also insurance and GE Capital financial Currently senior independent held executive and non-executive services.
director of Centrica plc utilities positions at Royal Dutch Shell plc oil and non-executive director of Cable and Aegis Group plc media services.
Mark Hodges & Wireless plc telecoms.
Carole Piwnica Director General of the Association executive Aviva UK Age 44 Independent non-executive of British Insurers and non-executive Appointed Jun 2008 director Age 52 director of the Bank of England.
Appointed May 2003 Previously chief executive, Aviva UK 8.
Russell Walls Member of the New York and Paris Life.
Has also held senior finance Independent non-executive Bars.
Currently director of Naxos UK roles within Norwich Union since director Age 66 private equity and non-executive joining in 1991.
Appointed May 2004 director of Toepfer International Currently non-executive director of GmbH trading and Dairy Crest 5.
Andrea Moneta Signet Jewelers Ltd retail : treasurer Group plc dairy foods.
Member of Executive director, Chief and trustee of The British Red Cross.
biotech advisory board of Monsanto executive Aviva Europe, Former group finance director of biotechnology.
Middle East and Africa Age 44 BAA plc transport, Wellcome plc Appointed Sep 2009 13.
Michael Hawker pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella Chief executive Aviva Europe since Independent non-executive plc textiles.
Held non-executive July 2008 and currently chief director Age 50 roles in several other industries.
executive officer, Aviva Europe, Appointed Jan 2010 Middle East and Africa.
Scott Wheway Currently advisory board director managing director of Dubai Financial Independent non-executive at GEMS private equity and Group financial services and director Age 43 non-executive director of Australian formerly held senior executive Appointed Dec 2007 Rugby Union.
Former chief executive positions with UniCredit, the Currently chief executive of Best Buy and managing director of Insurance European Central Bank banking Europe retail services.
Formerly held Australia Group insurance.
senior management positions at The Boots Company plc pharmacy, Alliance Boots plc and Tesco plc retail services.
For full biographies visit Aviva at 1.
Robin Spencer Group human resources director Chief executive Aviva Investors Chief risk officer Age 40 www.
com 2009ara Age 53 Age 55 Appointed Jan 2010 Appointed Mar 2006 Appointed Sep 2007 Joined the Group in 1995.
Formerly Joined the Group in 1999 and was Joined the Group in 2007.
Has held chief executive officer of Aviva previously Group HR Director for senior management roles in several Canada and has held various senior Norwich Union plc.
Held senior HR financial services companies.
finance and management positions positions with WH Smith plc, ICL plc, Formerly at the French Treasury in in the UK and Canada.
Former Priory Hospitals Group and General the Ministry of Finance and the chairman of Canadas Property Electric plc.
French Institute for Statistics and and Casualty Insurance Economic Studies.
Amanda Mackenzie Chief marketing officer Age 46 4.
Simon Machell Appointed Mar 2008 Chief executive Aviva North Chief executive Aviva Asia Pacific Joined the Group in 2008.
Currently America Age 48 Age 46 a member of the Government Appointed Jul 2007 Appointed Jul 2007 Strategic Marketing Advisory Board, Joined the Group in 1989.
Formerly Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly a fellow of the Marketing Society chief executive of Aviva UK General chief executive of Norwich Union and a governor of the National Youth Insurance formerly Norwich Union Insurance and managing director Orchestra.
Previously commercial and Insurance and chief executive officer of RAC.
Previously held positions marketing director for British Gas.
Aviva Canada and has held several with Ernst & Young LLP and other senior roles within Norwich Legal & General.
10 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Europe UK From 2010 we have brought Regional highlight IFRS operating profit together our UK life and general Successful rebrand to Aviva insurance businesses.
Following 450m cost savings delivered 1,165m Reattribution of inherited estate extensive programmes of Life: service excellence improves transformation, we have made customer experience significant improvements to 15 % GI: transformation ahead of plan 4 customer service, increased profitability and have delivered Total sales m Regional outlook substantial cost savings.
Financial discipline and a focus on 09 14,261 profitability in our businesses remain 08 18,756 key for 2010.
However, markets are expected to remain challenging in 07 20,445 the short term.
11 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 UK UK long-term and savings business Market environment A leader in our During 2009 the overall long-term savings market declined by 17%.
This contraction, for the second consecutive year, was primarily driven by falls in the pension and bond markets as lower consumer confidence, home market limited salary increases and higher unemployment reduced customers propensity to save and invest for the future.
Specific regulatory events, From 1 January 2010 we have brought such as the cessation of sales of single premium creditor business, also together the Aviva UK life and general impacted the market.
Despite this, we have maintained a disciplined insurance businesses, creating a new focus on profitability, significantly improving our new business margin organisation led by one chief executive officer.
In 2009, in addition to completing the rebranding to Aviva, both businesses Peace of mind at a difficult time have continued their extensive transformation Paul and his family have been through programmes, which will make significant a really difficult time during the last year.
improvements to customer service, and they In May his wife died of breast cancer, have delivered combined cost savings of leaving him to look after their two 450 million, a year ahead of plan.
young children on his own.
After she was diagnosed as terminally-ill, her main Strategy concern was that the family she was The core strategies for the UK business are: leaving behind would be financially OK. to leverage our extensive distribution Paul was determined to give her the network and customer base to increase peace of mind that she needed and profits in a mature but evolving marketplace: also to make sure that, should anything to maintain market leadership through subsequently happen to him, their balanced distribution and broad product children would be well provided for.
mix, improved customer retention and the He wrote to say thank you for the simplification of processes, services and costs.
Our commitment support that we gave him: Your staff To treat customers as human throughout that time were incredibly beings rather than policy holders Aviva UK courteous and professional, and that Total sales were 14,261 million in 2009, really helped her.
IFRS operating profit some other companies during that time for the year decreased 15% to 1,165 million youd have thought she had just broken reflecting the impact of lower premiums and a nail not had a critical illness.
For full details of our you for everything.
Pseudonym The rebrand to Aviva in the UK took place on 1 June 2009.
Our successful advertising Visit Aviva at campaigns, highlighting Avivas products and www.
com services and encouraging customers to get the Aviva deal, have increased recognition and awareness of the Aviva brand significantly.
Mark Hodges screen grab to be supplied Listen to Mark Hodges discuss our UK floods year in our new online review For information on how Aviva helped customers affected by the floods View video here To find out more visit www.
com 2009review 12 Aviva plc UK continued Annual Review 2009 Performance Long-term and savings sales m In the UK life market, Aviva has built a leading position 09 9,963 across a broad product range.
We have gained competitive 08 13,343 advantage through our financial strength, product development and taking actions to simplify the business 07 14,548 making it easier for customers.
06 13,812 We delivered new propositions recognising consumer needs, including offering 12-months free life cover to new 05 10,345 parents, the launch of a With-Profit Guaranteed bond and recently re-opening our Wrap and Sipp platforms to new Long-term and savings operating profit m business.
Our innovative Simplified Life protection product MCEV IFRS continues to go from strength to strength with a 147% increase in new applications compared to 2008, whilst our 09 787 market-leading individual annuity pricing capability attained 672 record new business volumes for this product in the fourth 08 883 quarter of 2009.
751 As a result of our major simplification and efficiency 07 822 initiatives, designed to better meet customer needs, we 723 have outsourced the administration of almost three million 06 744 policies to industry experts: Swiss Re, Scottish Friendly and 629 International Financial Data Services.
We have decommissioned 05 589 over 300 IT systems, delivered a more flexible cost base and 327 made 100 million of annualised cost savings.
We have continued to invest in our e-commerce offerings with the launch of further new propositions to help our customers and distribution partners.
Customer Portal and Outlook Aviva for Advisers provide secure on-line access to over We expect the market to remain challenging in the short term 4.5 million policies, enabling customers and advisers to as the impact of the recession continues to influence demand manage their Aviva Life products quickly and easily at a time for investment and savings products.
Longer term, major convenient to them.
We were also the first in the industry to regulatory changes including the Retail Distribution Review offer a virtual online guide as part of our innovative Pension and Solvency II will be implemented.
Our strategies will enable Tracker, making it possible for almost 1.5 million customers us to exploit the opportunities emerging in our market as we to manage their Aviva pension plans online.
This approach continue to build on our e-commerce and service capability contributed to Aviva winning the Personal Finance Pension and product and distribution breadth.
Provider of the Year award voted for by customers and judged on proposition quality, brand, service and sustainability.
Read more about the Retail Distribution Review and Solvency II Throughout 2009 our commitment to deliver service www.
uk excellence has driven improved satisfaction and advocacy results.
By listening to and understanding what matters most to our customers and distributors, we can ensure they have a better service experience.
Source: Association of British Insurers ABI Fair reattribution payments Following the announcement in May 2009 of a new, more flexible offer and the subsequent FSA and High Court approval in September the reattribution of our inherited estate completed on 1 October.
Our objective was always to create a reattribution that was fair to both shareholders and policyholders, making sure that customers had a choice of whether they wished to accept the offer, depending on their personal circumstances.
As a result, over 87% of eligible policyholders voted during the election process, with 96% of these voting in favour of the offer.
By the end of 2009, the majority of the 471 million reattribution payment had been distributed to those policyholders who accepted the offer.
Fair play We are paying out 471 million to policyholders 13 Aviva plc UK continued Annual Review 2009 RAC insurance UK general insurance business Market environment RAC continues from strength to strength as a leading UK 2009 has been a challenging year, with strong service brand, coming fifth in the Institute of Customer competition and the recession impacting all lines Services 2009 survey, comparable with John Lewis, Waitrose of business.
More customers are searching for and M&S.
In its core breakdown category it won the JD Power cheaper deals, while fewer are making discretionary survey for an unprecedented fourth consecutive year.
The purchases such as breakdown cover.
A significant service culture is not just delivered by our patrol staff either: fall in creditor volumes, resulting from lower lending, RACs membership call centre entered the Times Top 50 UK was compounded by a sharp rise in creditor claims.
Fewer start-ups, more business failures and reduced In January 2009 we launched our car insurance panel exposures have resulted in shrinking commercial under the iconic RAC brand to complement our existing direct markets.
However, there have been some recent offering from Aviva.
This ensures that almost every customer encouraging signs that more realistic pricing is emerging that calls us can be provided cover at competitive prices.
in the market, particularly in personal motor.
The panel is on all the major online price comparison sites and it is writing growing volumes of business through this Performance channel of distribution.
The UK general insurance operation has significantly improved the profitability of business written in 2009.
By simplifying the business, reducing costs, achieving scale benefits and taking a disciplined approach to underwriting and distribution, we have created a platform for future growth.
Progress on our transformation programme remains ahead of plan, with all business now being undertaken in our new centres of excellence.
We are on track to deliver annualised savings of more than our 150 million target from this phase by 2010, in addition to savings of 200 million already delivered.
We have refocused our brands to offer our To find out more about the RAC customers the best price when they buy direct from and what we offer customers, visit Aviva supported by our Get the Aviva Deal marketing www.
co. uk campaign, complimented by the RAC panel which is available on all major online price comparison sites and supported by 17 insurers.
The impact has been General insurance and health net written premiums m extremely positive: we sold more Direct personal 09 4,298 motor policies in the fourth quarter than in the same period in the previous three years and the RAC panel 08 5,413 had gained a share of around 3.5% of new business 07 5,897 in the UK personal motor market by the end of 2009.
Overall business volumes have fallen reflecting 06 6,000 the action we have taken to exit unprofitable business 05 6,127 and the challenging market conditions.
We continue to support independent brokers through a range of initiatives including customised networks such as the General insurance and health IFRS operating profit m Broker Independence Group and Club 110 as well COR as providing easy and fast access to our best prices.
1,200 108 In addition, we were delighted to renew the Barclays homeowner account.
960 104 720 100 Outlook In the general insurance market, quality of earnings 480 96 remains our priority and we aim to increase profitability through enhanced risk selection and tightly controlling 240 92 our costs.
Whilst there are some encouraging signs in 0 88 personal motor, we continue to see intense competition 05 06 07 08 09 in many segments of the market and we await the significant shift in attitude that the market requires.
This is particularly true in the case of Commercial lines and there is little evidence that the market is hardening significantly.
% 14 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Europe Europe Were making a Quantum Leap, Regional highlight IFRS operating profit integrating operations across Increased customer reach through Europe.
There are significant new bancassurance partnerships 1,196m Innovative product development 4 growth opportunities in the Successful IPO of Delta Lloyd region and with our ability to operate across distribution 5% channels we will be able to respond favourably to market Total sales m Regional outlook developments as customer By balancing profit generation and 09 21,750 confidence begins to return.
investment opportunities across our 08 21,806 portfolio, we are confident that we can benefit from the growth potential 07 20,488 within Europe.
15 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Europe Building a truly panEuropean business with a broad and diverse portfolio We have a clear strategy to exploit the considerable opportunities in Europe.
There is significant growth potential in the region, in both under-penetrated Western markets and developing markets in Eastern Europe.
With our proven ability to operate across distribution channels, we will be able to respond favourably to market developments as customer confidence begins to return.
Strategy Our strategy is to capitalise on the significant opportunities Poland: Investment TV within Europe through: To find out more visit Aviva Europes Quantum Leap transformation plan, www.
com 2009review creating one market leading pan-European business from 12 federated businesses, Market environment the strategic development of our 58% investment Europe is already the largest insurance market in the world in Delta Lloyd following the IPO in November 2009. with an affluent population of over 800 million people, 1 generating 31% of global insurance premiums and Our principal financial objective is long-term, sustainable, 2 accounting for over 30% of global personal financial assets.
Europe offers significant growth opportunities in both under-penetrated Western markets and developing markets in Eastern Europe.
As elsewhere, the slowdown in economic growth has impacted customer behaviour in the majority of the region with customers favouring deposit bank accounts or guaranteed insurance products.
Customer confidence is beginning to return particularly in France, Italy and Poland where customers are starting to re-invest in more attractive insurance products such as unit-linked bonds.
Ireland: Hibernian Aviva promotes Health plan meant that they would even better healthcare for less be covered for cancer care and cardiac It was Hibernian Avivas television procedures she hoped they would advertising that first caught Annes eye.
never have to use them but it made her The campaign slogan Looking out for feel safer: the maternity benefits were you made her realise that moving her great too just in case and, with her health insurer could be easier than daughter growing up, the cervical switching her electricity or phone cancer vaccination would mean one supplier and the promise that with just less thing to worry about.
And by just one phone call you could be covered knowing that the plan gave them fast immediately also appealed to her.
When access, if they needed it, to hospitals she did phone, the simplicity and clarity and treatment centres close to home, Looking out for you of what was covered by the plan made she would certainly sleep better now.
Better and faster access Pseudonym it easy to make a decision.
With a young to healthcare in Ireland family, Anne always worried about Visit Aviva at how they would manage if she or her www.
The Aviva Hibernian 16 Aviva plc Europe continued Annual Review 2009 Aviva Europe performance Making a Quantum Leap As part of our transformation, in performance Aviva Europe operates in 12 businesses across Europe we are also establishing a excluding the UK with substantial operations in single holding company for In 2009, we announced France, Italy, Ireland, Poland and Spain.
We also have our European operations in our new strategy to make a presence in the developing markets in Central and Ireland.
This new structure a Quantum Leap in Eastern Europe of Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania, will deliver economic, performance by integrating Romania, Russia, Turkey and Slovakia.
As part of our operational and regulatory the operations of our 12 strategy, we are transforming our 12 federated benefits, especially with the separate Aviva Europe businesses through our Quantum Leap programme anticipated introduction of businesses.
We are creating into one market leading pan-European business.
Solvency II in 2012. a single pan-European Since January 2010, Aviva Europe has assumed Our two pan-European organisation which will create responsibility for developing Avivas business interests distribution channels, significant value for Avivas in the Middle East, based in the United Arab Emirates.
bancassurance and retail, customers and shareholders.
We expect this high-potential market to grow, supported by pan-European By moving to a panbenefiting from Aviva Europes experience and resources.
product development, European operating model, We achieved total sales of 16,258 million during operations and governance we are simplifying our product 2009, up 8% on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the year will enable us to take full range, shortening the time decreased 4% to 797 million, reflecting exceptional advantage of the significant to launch new products for weather losses in France and Ireland.
For full details of growth potential and our customers and making our financial reporting visit www.
com reports opportunities in Europe and significant efficiency gains by We have made significant progress in our contribute fully to the One centralising our operations, migration to a single Aviva brand.
Having operated as Aviva, Twice the Value target.
enabling us to improve cost Hibernian Aviva in 2009, we adopted the Aviva name management, grow net Visit Aviva at in Ireland at the start of 2010 and we will complete profits and enhance dividends www.
com our brand migration programme in June when we will remitted to the Group.
operate as Aviva in Poland.
Recognition of the Aviva brand continues to grow in both markets, with Ireland 3 recording prompted awareness rates in excess of 90%.
Our bancassurance franchise is the largest in 4 Europe with 50 bank agreements and our retail channel accesses nine million customers through 18,000 financial advisers.
With this proven ability to operate across distribution channels, we are able to meet different customer preferences and respond favourably to market developments.
Our business is performing strongly in both distribution channels.
In retail, our partnership with AFER, a leading savings association in France, continues to be extremely successful with customer numbers growing by 5% to 712,000 in 2009.
In bancassurance, our Italian partnership with Banco Popolare that commenced in 2008 performed strongly in highly profitable protection products, one of our key strategic objectives.
Aviva Oliver Wyman research 2007 UK is excluded 3.
Retail refers to the sale of insurance products outside of the bancassurance channel through our direct sales force, IFAs, brokers or internet sales.
17 Aviva plc Europe continued Annual Review 2009 General insurance and health net written premiums m Europe Delta Lloyd 09 3,046 08 4,090 07 3,232 06 3,287 Listen to Andrea Moneta discuss our year in our new online review 05 2,754 View video here www.
com 2009review General insurance and health IFRS operating profit m Europe Delta Lloyd 09 275 08 397 07 442 06 417 05 390 In 2009, we developed our suite of guaranteed products which have proved attractive particularly in France, Spain and Italy.
Being there for customers in times of need is crucial: following flooding and storms in France during 2009, we paid out 90% of claims in the year.
And to reinforce this, 94% of our customers in France who were hit by Hurricane Klaus were happy with the way we handled their claims.
Delta Lloyd performance Our Delta Lloyd business is one of the top five financial services providers in the Netherlands and also operates in Belgium and Germany.
In 2009, we completed the successful IPO and partial sale of Delta Lloyd on Euronext Amsterdam with gross proceeds of 1 billion for a 42% stake.
This was a significant strategic milestone in our management of Delta Lloyd and gives us further opportunity to reallocate capital within the group.
The market environment in the Netherlands remained challenging, with weak asset values constraining activity in the corporate pensions market, before improving in the latter part of the year when Delta Lloyd secured two large group Delta Lloyd IPO contracts.
Total sales in 2009 of 5,492 million were down For more information on the Delta Lloyd IPO, visit 18% reflecting the sale of the health business.
com 2009review profit for the year increased 29% to 399 million.
These results are discussed in more detail on page 45 of this report.
Delta Lloyd continues to offer innovative, high quality Outlook products backed by strong fund management performance.
Market conditions will continue to vary In June, in collaboration with Rabobank, Delta Lloyd launched considerably between countries: the recession is a 200 million fund, which offers an alternative source of still challenging in Ireland, Spain and Hungary but capital for this promising Dutch venture.
we are seeing signs of recovery in France, Italy and In 2009, we successfully integrated the Swiss Life Belgium Poland.
By continuing to carefully balance profit operation with our existing Belgian life operations.
Belgium generation and investment opportunities across extended the ABN AMRO distribution arrangement to include our broad and diverse portfolio and by enhancing Fortis branches when they are rebranded in 2010. innovative customer focused offerings, we are confident that we can benefit from the growth potential within Europe.
Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Europe North America North America has a strategically Regional highlight IFRS operating profit attractive population with a Focus on capital and growing demand for products improving margins 213m Grown life portfolio in 4 which offer prosperity and peace a contracting market of mind in both the general Improved pricing and insurance and life and annuities 43% underwriting effectiveness marketplaces.
Total sales m Regional outlook A steady market recovery expected in 09 6,345 2010.
Continue to grow life insurance 08 7,316 portfolio and our contribution to total Aviva profits.
Further enhance general 07 5,058 insurance underwriting processes in Canada.
19 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 North America Poised to benefit from recovery in the worlds wealthiest market The North American marketplace provides us with access to a strategically attractive population with a growing demand for products that offer prosperity and peace of mind in both the general insurance and life and annuities marketplaces.
Strategy We will continue to grow our existing businesses and raise our profile in North America on the back of the strength of the global brand, communicating with financial analysts, Telling it like it is key financial and business media, consumers and distributors.
For more information visit Our strategic priorities for the region are: www.
com 2009review to enhance capital efficiency and optimise margins to selectively expand and grow our core life insurance and annuity distribution and product capabilities Market environment to operate as a great underwriting company The US economy, and its financial sector in particular, suffered to make best use of the synergies created within a severe contraction as a result of the financial crisis.
The the regional operating model recession also had a major impact on Canada, the USs largest to enhance strong and valuable relationships with trading partner.
There are now increasing signs of economic our customers and distributors.
recovery and, despite the recession, North Americas economies remain among the worlds largest and its population among the worlds wealthiest.
Exceptional customer not only fix the doors but service also change the locks.
Jane has been an Aviva Jane knew that she customer since 1999.
Recently could count on Sherri to divorced and on her own for encourage her to move the first time in a long time, forward: I have never had she returned home one day a claim before, I didnt know to find she had been robbed.
what to do and I wasnt sure The break-in left her scared where to go.
this around for me, she gave Sherri of Avivas London, me strength, human kindness Ontario, office was assigned and dispelled any previous as Janes adjuster.
She herself concepts I had about had been a victim of a home insurance companies.
Helping hand robbery and understood the Shes now planning a trip to Supporting a customer through shock and fear that Jane was meet Sherri in person and the bad times experiencing.
Sherri listened give her a thank-you hug.
Pseudonym and consoled Jane, who was afraid to stay in her home Visit Aviva at because she no longer felt www.
Sherri arranged for a contractor to 20 Aviva plc North America continued Annual Review 2009 Total sales m Performance General insurance Long-term savings Total sales were 6,345 million in 2009, down 13% on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the 09 6,345 year improved 43% to 213 million reflecting 08 7,316 the improved long-term and savings result.
For full details of our financial reporting visit 07 5,058 www.
com reports 06 2,284 In our US business we have deliberately 05 1,851 moderated annuity sales in comparison to the prior year and centred on capital management.
We have grown our life insurance portfolio, outperforming Operating profit m in a market that contracted by 19% in the first nine MCEV IFRS months of the year.
In the Canadian business we have focused 09 394 213 on initiatives that improve our operational and underwriting effectiveness.
Examples include 08 334 the implementation of our three-company model, 149 enabling us to price the auto business in the heavily 07 274 regulated Ontario market more accurately, and 229 enhanced underwriting through the use of more 06 180 standardised and automated processes.
Elsewhere 161 the Canadian business has seen an unusually high 05 172 frequency of large losses through a combination of 158 commercial fires and Ontario personal auto claims.
L ife assurance outperforms Innovative pricing in contracting market In the Canadian business we have successfully implemented an innovative approach to the pricing of personal property As part of the One Aviva, Twice the Value strategy, business known as Rate by Peril.
We have used a detailed we are consolidating each of our non-market-facing and sophisticated mapping approach combined with functions into single North American business areas proprietary and public information to deconstruct the blended giving us improved capability at lower cost.
approach to pricing used for multi-peril household policies.
Outlook Using this approach we are able to determine a unique rate A number of economic indicators are starting to for each individual property reflecting its unique exposure to point to a steady recovery in 2010.
We will continue the perils covered by the policy including fire, water damage, to grow our life insurance portfolio in the US, wind-storm, sewer back-up, theft and liability.
The increased building on 2009 successes.
We await the outcome pricing precision that we are able to apply enables us to of the SEC151A debate concerning the future right-price each property.
regulation of annuity products and will respond appropriately.
In Canada we will further enhance our underwriting processes to improve risk selection, profitability and capital efficiency.
Listen to Igal Mayer Right-price discuss our year in Individual property ratings our new online review for Canadian households View video here Visit Aviva at www.
com Aviva plc Europe Annual Review 2009 Asia Pacific Weve identified India and Regional highlight Operating profit China as our must-win Developed products to address markets, expected to generate customer needs 77m Sale of Australia business 4 a significant proportion of our Expanded customer reach in future expansion within Asia.
local markets Throughout the rest of the 1 14% region, our focus is on developing the strength of Total sales m Regional outlook our bancassurance business We expect recovery in Asia Pacific to be 09 2,712 with joint venture partners.
Prospects for 08 3,499 2010 are optimistic with GDP growth of 6.6% forecast for emerging Asia 07 4,283 22 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Asia Pacific Committed to building a highgrowth and valuecreating region We operate in eight countries across the Asia Pacific region through both joint ventures and wholly-owned operations.
India and China, both with large populations and relatively high economic growth, are must-win markets capable of generating a significant proportion of our future expansion within Asia.
Throughout the rest of the region, our focus is on developing the strength of our bancassurance business with joint venture partners.
Strategy Our ambition is to build a high-growth and value-creating Aviva Young Scholar Market environment region driven by the must-win markets of China and To read more Trading conditions were India.
We will achieve this by: please visit difficult in 2009.
Long-term securing strong organic growth across all our markets www.
com savings sales were affected leveraging our multi-distribution platforms and core by the economic climate capabilities in bancassurance as investors turned to low exploring new growth opportunities, in particular volatility investments such as health and general insurance bank deposits.
The industry expanding our regional footprint in fast-growing, also experienced an increase high potential insurance markets in lapses and clients investing in the Aviva brand.
exercising their premium holiday options.
China: Health angels lend widely held belief in China a helping hand that insurance generally is Jessica admits that she had easy to buy, but hard to been very sceptical about claim and is one that Aviva making an insurance claim has been working hard to when a minor operation last overcome.
Since starting this year meant that she was project over five years ago, unable to work for some Avivas health angels have weeks.
With very little savings not only made a positive to fall back on, she was impact in changing peoples naturally anxious about how views about the insurance she would find the money to industry but have also cover her everyday expenses.
improved customer loyalty, So she was pleasantly retention rates and helped surprised when Aviva China to trigger repurchasing of sent their health angels to products by customers.
Health angels Pseudonym Innovative approach to healthcare visit her in hospital to provide claims in China a face-to-face medical consultation and to assist Visit Aviva at with her claim.
com reaction is indicative of a 23 Aviva plc Asia Pacific continued Annual Review 2009 Performance Total sales m Total sales were 2,712 million in 2009, down 22% 09 2,712 on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the year improved 08 3,499 114% to 77 million reflecting the improved longterm and savings result.
For full details of our financial 07 4,283 reporting, please visit www.
com reports 06 3,059 During 2009, customers increased caution has led to a growing demand for protection and health 05 1,990 products and those savings products with guarantee features.
We have strengthened our proposition in Operating profit m these areas which, together with our investment MCEV IFRS product capabilities, will enable us to harness the expected economic rebound.
09 86 We made substantial efforts to conserve capital 77 and control costs, reducing the sale of capital intensive 08 69 products in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Taiwan and 36 implementing a region-wide cost-reduction programme.
07 101 The sale of our Australian business in October also 37 realised a 0.4 billion contribution to capital.
06 92 As part of our commitment to achieving One 50 Aviva, Twice the Value, we launched a number of 05 89 new initiatives in the region.
These included our wrap 15 platform in Hong Kong and new protection, savings On a MCEV basis from 2007.
and investment products, both conventional and takaful Islamic insurance, in Malaysia through our shared services platform.
Joint venture in Malaysia We signed a joint venture partner deal with CIMB, the second Ope ning up in new markets largest bank in Malaysia in 2007, to capitalise on its distribution network by providing market leading insurance products and across the region excellent servicing capability.
To achieve this we drew on our We expanded our customer reach in local markets regional shared services capability and technical infrastructure during the year with a particular focus on in Singapore to deliver and administer the product set.
We bancassurance, we renewed our partnership with successfully launched a portfolio EasyLife Solutions of ten DBS Bank in Singapore and Hong Kong until 2015, investment-linked products within a six-month timeframe.
extended to additional markets in India, China and Sales of EasyLife Solutions have gone from strength to Taiwan, and also agreed extended terms with key strength, contributing to our position as fourth in the partners in India.
We opened our tenth provincial industry for single premium business in 2009.
This has also branch in China, ahead of our 2010 target: achieved strengthened our partnership with CIMB at all levels.
encouraging sales through Woori Bank in South Korea and opened 13 new branches around the Seoul area.
Outlook Looking forward, we expect recovery in Asia Pacific to be ahead of other regions.
Prospects for 2010 are more optimistic with the Asia Development Bank predicting GDP growth of 6.6% for emerging Asia versus 4.3% in 2009.
We are committed to building a high-growth and value-creating region and establishing Aviva as a leading international player in Asia.
In partnership Successful launch of new bancassurance products Listen to Simon Machell discuss our year in our new online review View video at www.
com 2009review Aviva Investors Aviva Investors manage funds for Regional highlight IFRS operating profit Avivas insurance operations as Focus on client service recognised well as for a growing range of Improved investment performance 115m and revenues external clients.
With our new 4 Strong third party inflows business model coming together Progress in developing global in 2009 we saw a number of 1% distribution capability positive trends emerging to support our strategic objectives.
Funds under management bn Regional outlook The loss of confidence in financial 09 250 markets has meant that clients are 08 236 increasingly looking for risk-aware investment options and we are well 07 235 placed to capitalise on that trend.
25 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Aviva Investors Focused on clients, focused on performance Aviva Investors combines the groups asset management components into a single, globally-integrated business.
We manage internal funds for Aviva, as well as for a growing range of institutional and retail third party clients.
Our focus on client service has brought external recognition and contributed to a strong performance in 2009.
Strategy Our core strategic objective is to build our presence as a globally-integrated asset manager and establish Aviva Investors as a leading player in the market for retirement solutions.
We aim to increase revenues and profitability by delivering significant growth in higher-margin assets under management from external clients.
The key strategic imperatives central to our success are: our commitment to client focus, delivering investment solutions that fully meet their requirements delivering strong investment performance to underpin product sales activity Aviva Investors gains recognition finalising the roll-out of a global business development in latest client surveys function with a footprint in mature and emerging markets To read more visit a high performance culture that rewards those who www.
com 2009review make the strongest contribution to the achievement of our goals Market environment further increases in business effectiveness and efficiency Following a turbulent start to 2009, market through the adoption of global core processes.
conditions improved with some markets registering their best annual performance in over 20 years.
The pace of any further rally across markets is likely to be more modest with the uncertainty around central banks removing stimulus measures.
Although some economies remain in recession, we remain optimistic that recovery will gather pace.
Global credit addressing However, Aviva Investors were customer needs not put off by this and really The pensions director of a worked at it, coming up FTSE 100 company pension with a specific global credit scheme was happy to mandate and setting out how endorse his experience of it would be implemented.
working with Aviva Investors: They really convinced our A tangible example is how consultant and the trustees they helped us analyse our were also persuaded.
investment requirements Pensions Director, FTSE 100 when we were considering company pension scheme.
going from UK to global Impressive pitch Visit Aviva at credit.
Our investment We go the extra mile to win over consultant was not that www.
com our customers comfortable with using Aviva Investors on global credits.
26 Aviva plc Aviva Investors continued Annual Review 2009 Performance IFRS operating profit was in line with the prior year at 115 million while funds under management increased 6% to 250 billion as markets recovered.
For full details of our financial reporting please visit www.
com reports A number of positive trends emerged to support our strategic objectives in 2009.
Our focus on client service gained us improved rankings in UK-focused independent client service investment performance surveys for investment quality.
Investment Feedback follow-up performance was also an area of strength.
Where Creates a stronger business relationship clients have specified performance benchmarks, Aviva Investors has met or exceeded 83% of these over one Listening to our clients year and 68% over three years, with particularly First Securities Investment Trust FSITC is a leading asset strong performance in France, Australia and Poland.
manager, marketing investment products to customers in We also generated record levels of performance fees.
In 2009, we won a mandate to handle a new global Our liquidity funds attracted strong inflows in high yield product through our high yield investment team in France and the UK and from our continental European North America.
We supported the local Aviva Investors team distribution channel through our SICAV range.
In the in Taiwan and managed FSITCs successful initial offering.
UK, our Sterling Government Liquidity and Sterling As a follow-up, we initiated a customer survey to ensure Liquidity Funds gained Standard & Poors highest that issues and insights from FSITC were captured and acted possible AAAm stability rating.
Despite the significant commercial success of the new We have made significant progress in developing launch the survey uncovered some concerns and a need for a global marketing, sales and distribution capability, improvement on operations and communications.
re-engineering our global business development We were able to act quickly and decisively to resolve function to facilitate sales to external clients and these concerns.
FSITCs response was very positive: our actions underpin our client-centric approach.
This was enhanced had shown that we had listened to their feedback at a senior by group-led PR and advertising for the global rebrand, level, creating a much stronger relationship.
which helped to cement trust in, and recognition of, the Aviva name in both established and new markets and by our own marketing efforts which helped to raise Aviva Operating profit m Investors profile in a competitive market.
MCEV IFRS Aviva Investors also received a number of external accolades in Austria, Singapore, Australia and the UK.
09 40 115 In November we were proud to work alongside the United Nations for the launch of their report on 08 41 114 sustainable stock exchanges, a programme that is continuing in 2010.
07 64 147 N ew business model comes 06 57 112 together in 2009 05 36 77 Outlook On a MCEV basis from 2007.
Since Aviva Investors launched in September 2008 we have made strong progress.
The loss of confidence in financial markets has meant that clients are increasingly Funds under management bn looking for risk-aware investment options and, as an insurance-owned asset manager, we are well placed to 09 250 capitalise on that trend.
We look forward to 2010 with 08 236 confidence and anticipation.
07 235 Listen to Alain Dromer discuss our year in our new online review View video here www.
com 2009review 27 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Summary corporate responsibility Below is a summary of the corporate responsibility CR report which shareholders will be asked to approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
The CR report, contained in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2009, includes more information on our CR strategy, progress and performance during 2009.
For full details of our CR activities, including an independent assurance statement, please see our online CR report www.
com  reports Community investment To read our Corporate Responsibility Highlights from 2009 include: Report in full visit Executive directors remuneration based on www.
com 2009cr financial outcomes and targets related to customer advocacy and employee leadership Business ethics and financial crime and engagement We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our Extended our reporting of key performance principles in our business ethics code.
This stipulates fairness, indicators using Accounting for Sustainabilitys honesty and transparency in all we do.
Our financial crime connected reporting framework policy reinforces our zero tolerance approach and ensures that Established long-term carbon reduction target risks relating to fraud, money laundering, market abuse and Launched Street to School global community bribery and corruption are adequately controlled.
programme Included in some of the worlds leading indices People and benchmarks Delivering on our strategic plans and commitments requires strong leadership and the energy, dedication and belief of all our employees.
Over the past three years, we have built Governance and strategy a strong global human resources function to lead our culture By acting responsibly for the long term in how we transformation.
We have a clear purpose: to drive a talent do business we will meet our ambition to provide leadership and culture-led transformation to deliver prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
Our people and CR strategies play an important part in meeting this, in maintaining our Diversity, equality and human rights reputation as a preferred employer and responsible Avivas principles and policies embody the key tenets of respect, corporate citizen, and in managing our resources and valuing differences and inclusion and are aligned with the United in reducing costs.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights UNUDHR and The Aviva CR programme encompasses our International Labour Organisations core labour standards.
business ethics and values, our customers, our people Community and suppliers, our community investment and the In 2009 we invested 8.0 million 2008: 9.6 million in line environment.
Our Board CR committee reviews group with our strategic focus to support community and charitable CR strategy, policy and assesses regional performance initiatives in education, life trauma and financial literacy.
We against group key performance indicators.
Our CR launched Street to School, our five-year global charitable advisory group supports and advises on the management initiative which aims to get children and young people off and implementation of the global CR programme.
the street and into education.
The Aviva plc Board receives an annual update on CR Employee volunteering in support of these areas is strategy, activities and progress.
Executive directors encouraged as part of their personal development.
Our people remuneration is based on a combination of financial can apply for up to three days paid leave per year, as well outcomes along with targets related to customers, joining company-led programmes.
We report our performance using the HRH Prince Environment of Wales Accounting for Sustainability A4S connected Our established and proven strategy focuses on controlling our reporting framework and for the first time we are own impacts and resources, including gas, water, electricity and putting our CR report to a separate shareholder vote waste and by pursuing this long-term policy we have reduced at the 2010 AGM.
We are the first company in the UK our carbon emissions by a further 5.2% this year, on a and the first financial institution in the world to take like-for-like basis, compared to a 6.6% reduction in 2008. this proactive step.
Overall, we achieved a group-wide reduction in carbon emissions of 15% 2008: 3.3% 28 Aviva plc Summary corporate responsibility continued Annual Review 2009 Customers External benchmarking and recognition With the effects of the global economic downturn Our achievements in 2009 were recognised by our inclusion continuing to affect customers confidence in financial in some of the worlds leading external benchmarks: institutions, it was as important as ever to remain Dow Jones Sustainability World and STOXX Indices true to our purpose of providing prosperity and peace SAM Sustainability year book of mind.
FTSE4GOOD Index Series FTSE KLD Europe, Asia Pacific and Global Sustainability Suppliers indices excluding the US Index In 2009 we agreed a global approach and targets for ECPI Ethical Index Euro and Ethical Index Global indices our regional procurement teams.
We helped to develop Building Public Trust award for clear and transparent a set of industry-leading questions in collaboration with reporting of our executive remuneration policy the UK-based Financial Services CR forum.
A CR Gold status in Business in the Communitys Corporate weighting is now included in our sourcing decisions.
Responsibility Index 2008 and Most Improved Company in our sector Affiliations and engagements Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index score: 80 100 Here are some of the leading organisations with Carbon Trust Standard first insurer to receive the standard which we collaborated in 2009 to share good practice, for our year-on-year efforts to reduce our carbon footprint identify emerging issues and improve our performance: CBI Climate Change Board Key indicators HRH Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability In 2009 Avivas Group CR strategy was underpinned by ClimateWise focusing on a number of key performance measures.
The UNEP Finance Initiative measures that are used to assess performance at a group UN Global Compact UNGC and represented on level are set out below: UNGC Principles for Responsible Investment and Caring for Climate working groups Business in the Community CR Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2009 target Change over 2010 target year Business ethics n a % of employees signing of receipt, 90% 100% of employees 100% of employees understanding and acceptance of our Business Ethics Code annually Customers % of businesses that met exceeded 67% 67% Continue to embed 0% Develop and test Transactional performance against local market customer metrics NPS guidelines.
Pilot Distributor average across Aviva.
and general insurance and Canadian business to adopt NPS metrics in 2009 % of employees who rate us 67% Meet exceed GFS New KPI Increase the percentage of favourably on customer index benchmark favourable ratings from employees 2009: 69% in customer index.
Environment % of remaining CO emissions 100% 100% 100% Offset remaining 0% Offset remaining CO emissions 2 2 offset annually emissions CO at at group level 2 group level CO emissions tonnes actual 127,002 122,791 104,351 Reduce CO emissions 15 % Reduce CO emissions by 5% 2 2 2 by 5% Existing CO emissions tonnes n a 110,051 104,351 Reduce CO emissions 5 % Reduce CO emissions by 5% 2 2 2 based on 2009 ownership by 5% Water consumption m absolute 851,070 843,750 751,750 Reduce water use 11 % Reduce water use by 4% by 4% Waste generated tonnes absolute 18,877 19,311 14,592 Reduce waste 24 % Reduce waste generated by 4% generated by 4% Proportion of recycled waste 88% 84% 69% 80% or above 15 % 80% or above Met exceeded 2009 target Missed 2009 target 29 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Summary corporate responsibility continued Met exceeded 2009 target Missed 2009 target CR Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2009 target Change over 2010 target year People % of women in senior management 22% 22% 22% Increase percentage Increase percentage of women 0% of women in senior in senior management group management group Suppliers Number of business unit suppliers, 233 438 1,750 adjusted 205 1,000 with material spend, signing Avivas adjusted from 2,500 Supplier Code of Conduct from 983 Number of detailed CR assessments 30 in 138 globally 100 globally 108 200 globally of Avivas major suppliers the UK Number of business units that have 5 11 10 6 18 implemented and embedded use of Supplier Hospitality register and Register of Interests Community Amount of community investment 6.8m 9.6m 8.0m Establish and report 17 % At above previous year in line with group community strategy % of employees participating 16% New KPI Increase the % of employee in volunteering participation in volunteering Number of employee hours spent 67,700 79,900 Increase the % of 18% Increase the % of employee volunteering employee participation participation in volunteering in volunteering % of investment in Aviva Street New KPI 50% to School Notes on KPIs Business ethics: This KPI covers 98% of our employees.
Customers: Using our NPS methodology, 67% of businesses met or exceed performance last year against a local market average 2008: 67%.
However, within that percentage, 24 markets are participating in NPS compared to 12 in 2008 and 58% are exceeding the benchmark, compared to 33% in 2008.
Last year we reported the percentage of businesses that met exceeded performance against local market average where no local benchmark was available 2009: 75%.
Businesses that were covered by this metric are now all rated against a local market average.
This metric has therefore been removed.
Also in 2009, we replaced an employee survey question relating to the percentage of employees who consider that their business is customer focused with a new customer index KPI.
This gives an average favourable employee response against five customer indicators.
Environment: We want to show clearly that we have reduced our emissions as a result of energy management and behavioural change and not merely due to divestments.
The KPI for Actual emissions are absolute emissions for total Aviva operations in each year stated while the KPI with emissions based on 2009 ownership show our emissions over the last two years based on operations that we have in 2009 allowing for a like-for-like comparison.
Water has been restated following an independent review of Aviva Canadas water consumption between 2006 and 2008.
This has increased the overall Group consumption figures.
People: Current and historical data for women in senior management excludes Delta Lloyd group.
We also report KPIs relating to employee engagement.
These can be found in our on-line CR Report: www.
com  reports Suppliers: We adjusted our 2009 target and 2008 return for the number of business unit suppliers signing Avivas Supplier Code of Conduct due to a statement of compliance from our business in North America which could not be validated by Group Procurement.
Community: These KPIs cover all Aviva employees and Aviva joint venture employees.
30 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Summary financial statements Dividend These statements are aimed at giving shareholders a summary of the position and performance of Aviva.
They do not The directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.00 pence per share 2008: 19.91 pence, which together with however, contain all the information to allow as complete an understanding of the group as would be provided by the the interim dividend of 9.00 pence paid on 17 November 2009 2008: 13.09 pence, produces a total dividend for the full audited Annual Report and Accounts.
The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the full year of 24.00 pence per share 2008: 33.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2009, was 775 million annual financial statements, the auditable part of the directors remuneration report and on the consistency of the directors 2008: 902 million.
The final dividend for 2009 will be paid on 17 May 2010 to all holders of ordinary shares on the report with those annual financial statements.
Their report on the full annual financial statements and the auditable part of Register of Members at the close of business on 26 March 2010 and approximately five business days later for holders the directors remuneration report contained no statement under sections 498 2 or 498 3 of the Companies Act 2006. of American Depositary Receipts.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts is Directors available on the Aviva internet site at www.
com reports The following persons served as directors of the Company or free of charge from Equiniti, at the address at the end of during the year: this document.
Nikesh Arora resigned 5 August 2009 2009 financial statements Wim Dik retired 29 April 2009 The summary financial statements on page 32 and 33 have Mary Francis been prepared on the basis of accounting policies set out in the Richard Karl Goeltz Aviva Groups the Group 2009 Annual Report and Accounts.
Euleen Goh appointed 1 January 2009 The consolidated income statement has been presented on Mark Hodges both a Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis and Andrea Moneta appointed 29 September 2009 an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
Andrew Moss The Group continues to believe that the MCEV basis provides Carole Piwnica a useful measure of the performance of the life business Philip Scott retired 26 January 2010 alongside the statutory IFRS basis.
Results of an insurance Lord Sharman of Redlynch business in any particular year can be affected by significant Leslie Van fide Walle appointed 6 May 2009 movements in investment values, which influence the reported Russell Walls profits before tax.
Therefore, to measure the underlying Scott Wheway business performance, operating profit before tax based on longer term rates of investment return is used, eliminating The biographical details of the persons currently serving as the volatility caused by movements in investment values.
As a result, managers are encouraged to focus on operational The Companys Articles of Association require one-third performance and aspects of the business that are under of the directors to retire by rotation each year and also require their control.
each director to retire at intervals of not more than three years.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Lord Summarised directors report Sharman, the Chairman, and Scott Wheway, a non-executive Annual general meeting director, will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for The 2010 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be re-election.
Andrew Moss, the Group Chief Executive will also held on Wednesday 28 April 2010 at The Barbican Centre, retire and offer himself for re-election.
Leslie Van fide Walle, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
A separate document Andrea Moneta, Michael Hawker and Patrick Regan will offer accompanying this Annual Review contains the Notice themselves for election by shareholders at this years Annual convening the Annual General Meeting and a description General Meeting being the first such meeting after their of the business to be conducted thereat.
Leslie Van fide Walle and Michael Hawker are non-executive directors and were appointed to Review of operations the Board on 6 May 2009 and 1 January 2010 respectively.
Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group of Andrea Moneta and Patrick Regan are executive directors companies.
The principal activities of the Group are life EDs and have service contracts with a Group company, insurance, long-term savings, fund management and all details of which can be found in the Directors Remuneration classes of general insurance carried out through its Report.
Wim Dik retired from the Board at last years Annual subsidiaries, associates and branches in the United Kingdom, General Meeting in line with the Boards plans to renew and continental Europe and Ireland, North America, Asia and refresh its composition, while Philip Scott retired from the Australia.
The Group also undertakes motoring services in Board on 26 January 2010 following a 36 year career with the UK and Ireland.
Details of the Groups operations for the the Group, which began with Norwich Union.
accounting period, its current position and future prospects are contained in the Chairmans introduction and Group Chief Executives review and business segment overviews on pages 3 to 26.
31 Aviva plc Summary financial statements continued Annual Review 2009 Directors interests and indemnity arrangements Corporate responsibility CR At no time during the year did any director hold a material The Group has a well established corporate responsibility interest in any contract of significance with the Company programme and continues to use its position to influence or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity other companies to engage in sustainable business practices provision between each director and the Company and and to be open and transparent in the information they service contracts between each executive director and a publicly report.
In November 2009 the Company announced its intention The Company has purchased and maintained throughout to put its Corporate Responsibility Report to an advisory vote the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of of shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting as a itself and its directors.
The directors also have the benefit of means of obtaining feedback on the report and the the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles Companys performance in this area.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity A summary CR report is set out on pages 27 to 29 and the for the benefit of each director of the Company, and each full report can be viewed online at www.
person who was a director of the Company during the year, Further details of the resolution are set out in the Notice of in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity Annual General Meeting.
as directors of the Company or of associated companies.
These indemnities were granted at different times according to the law in place at the time and where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the EDs include shares held in trust under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
ABP awards relate to entitlements to shares arising through the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan 2005.
Under this plan, some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the director leaves service before the end of the period.
Awards granted under the LTIP which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
OATTV Plan awards are granted as a match to the bonus plan awards under the ABP and vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the SAYE.
The interests of connected persons to the directors are included in the directors interests above.
Andrea Moneta was appointed as a director on 29 September 2009.
On this date, he held 394 shares, 159,375 ABP awards, 249,023 LTIP awards, 119,531 OATTV Plan awards and 0 options.
32 Aviva plc Summary financial statements continued Annual Review 2009 Independent auditors statement to the Summarised consolidated income statement 2009 2008 members of Aviva plc m m We have examined the summary financial statements for Total sales for the year the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Life and pension businesses 32,003 36,245 Investment sales 3,872 3,995 summarised consolidated income statement, the summarised General insurance 9,193 11,137 consolidated statement of comprehensive income IFRS basis, 45,068 51,377 summarised consolidated statement of changes in equity, Premiums written net of reinsurance summarised consolidated statement of financial position and other investment sales IFRS basis, and the supplemental statement of financial Long-term business 22,921 23,228 General insurance and health premiums 9,193 11,137 position information MCEV basis.
32,114 34,365 This statement is made solely to the companys members, Pre-tax operating profit as a body, in accordance with Section 428 4 of the Long-term business MCEV operating return 3,389 2,810 Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Fund management operating profit 51 42 that we might state to the companys members those matters General insurance and health operating profit 960 1,198 Other operations 173 163 we are required to state to them in an auditors statement and Regional operating profit 4,227 3,887 for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Corporate centre, group debt costs and other interest 744 520 we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 1 Operating profit MCEV basis 3,483 3,367 than the company and the companys members as a body, Adjustment to report the profits of our long-term for our audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions insurance, fund management and other operations on an IFRS basis 1,461 1,070 we have formed.
IFRS operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits 2,022 2,297 Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Investment return variances and economic assumption The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual changes on long-term business 75 1,631 Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Short-term fluctuation in return on investments backing non-long-term business 95 819 Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Economic assumption changes on general insurance consistency of the summary financial statements within the and health business 57 94 Annual Review with the full annual financial statements, the Impairment of goodwill and other amounts expensed 62 66 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 144 117 Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report, Profit on the disposal of subsidiaries and associates 153 7 and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section Integration and restructuring costs 286 326 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations Exceptional items 45 551 made thereunder.
Profit loss before tax attributable to shareholders profits IFRS basis 1,805 1,300 We also read the other information contained in the Tax 490 415 Annual Review and consider the implications for our report Profit loss for the year 1,315 885 if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Summarised consolidated statement The other information comprises only the Group structure, of comprehensive income IFRS basis Financial summary, Chairmans introduction, Group chief executives review, Group strategy, Key performance indicators, 2009 2008 m m Board and executive team, Regional overviews, Summary Profit loss after tax attributable to shareholders 1,315 885 corporate responsibility report and Shareholder information.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin Other comprehensive income Fair value losses, net of transfers to income statement 1,280 1,770 2008 3 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report Actuarial losses gains on pension schemes 1,116 851 on the companys full annual financial statements describes Foreign exchange rate and other movements 951 2,684 the basis of our opinions on those financial statements, the Aggregate tax effect 196 219 Directors Remuneration Report, and the Directors Report.
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 983 282 Opinion Total comprehensive income for the year 332 603 In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of Aviva plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and comply with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act 2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 3 March 2010 33 Aviva plc Summary financial statements continued Annual Review 2009 Summarised consolidated statement Supplemental statement of financial position of changes in equity information MCEV basis 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Balance at 1 January as reported 14,573 15,931 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders Prior year adjustment 96 of Aviva plc IFRS basis 10,356 11,179 Adjustment to other reserves 213 1,429 Balance at 1 January restated 14,573 16,027 Additional retained profit on an MCEV basis 2,466 554 Total comprehensive income for the year 332 603 Dividends and appropriations 853 975 Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders Issue of share capital 1 20 of Aviva plc MCEV basis 13,035 13,162 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 299 170 Preference share capital and direct capital instrument 1,190 1,190 Capital contributions from minority shareholders 6 36 Minority interests 4,237 3,080 Transfers to minority interests following Total equity MCEV basis 18,462 17,432 Delta Lloyd IPO 930 Minority share of dividends declared in the year 109 106 Approved by the Board on 3 March 2010 Minority interest in acquired subsidiaries 2 43 Changes in minority interest in existing subsidiaries 111 65 Shares acquired by employee trusts 53 29 Reserves credit for equity compensation plans 56 39 Patrick Regan Aggregate shareholder tax effect 17 16 Chief Financial Officer Balance at 31 December 15,086 14,573 Notes 2009 2008 1.
Before tax and adjusting items.
Operating earnings per share is based on the operating profit on either an MCEV or IFRS basis, after tax, minority interests and preference dividends.
2 Operating earnings per share Basic MCEV basis 78.8p 83.4p 3.
Total earnings per share is based on the MCEV or IFRS profit for the year attributable to 2 Operating earnings per share Diluted MCEV basis 78.1p 82.7p equity shareholders.
3 Total earnings per share Basic MCEV basis 101.7p 282.6 p 4.
Net asset value per ordinary share is calculated based on equity shareholders funds.
3 Total earnings per share Diluted MCEV basis 100.8p 282.6 p 2 Operating earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 45.1p 62.9p 2 Summary directors remuneration report Operating earnings per share Diluted IFRS basis 44.8p 62.3p 3 Total earnings per share Basic IFRS basis 37.8p 36.8 p Below is a summary of the information contained in the 3 Total earnings per share Diluted IFRS basis 37.5p 36.8 p Directors remuneration report which shareholders will be 4 Net asset value per ordinary share IFRS basis 374p 421p 4 asked to approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Net asset value per ordinary share MCEV basis 471p 495p AGM.
The Directors remuneration report, contained in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2009, provides Summarised consolidated statement full details of the Companys remuneration policy, practices, of financial position IFRS basis pension arrangements and share incentive plans, including a 2009 2008 description of the performance conditions which apply to the m m share incentive plans and details of all the awards and options Assets Goodwill 3,381 3,578 held by the directors.
Additional value of in-force business and intangible assets 2,860 4,038 Highlights Interest in, and loans to, joint ventures and associates 2,982 2,983 The Remuneration Committee the Committee approved Investment properties, property and equipment 13,175 15,390 the Executive Directors EDs request to freeze their basic Financial investments 238,679 230,260 salaries for 2009 and to take a 10% reduction on the Other assets 68,138 74,670 Cash and cash equivalents 25,176 23,643 personal element of their annual bonus.
In 2010, the EDs Total assets 354,391 354,562 requested that their basic salaries should not be subject Capital and reserves to annual review and the Committee has endorsed Equity attributable to ordinary shareholders this proposal.
of Aviva plc 10,356 11,179 The demanding financial and non-financial targets set for Preference share capital 200 200 Direct capital instrument 990 990 the 2009 annual bonus were met in part during the year.
Minority interests 3,540 2,204 The combination of financial outcomes, along with those Total equity 15,086 14,573 targets relating to employees, customers, and personal Liabilities objectives mean that the Group Chief Executive received Gross liability for insurance and investment contracts 281,107 282,409 a 2009 bonus of 74% of his maximum opportunity Unallocated divisible surplus 3,866 2,325 2008: 54%.
Net asset value attributable to unitholders 9,894 6,918 The Committee entered the 2010 reward period conscious Borrowings 15,000 15,201 of the challenging economic background and widespread Other liabilities 29,438 33,136 Total liabilities 339,305 339,989 comment on over generous executive remuneration.
The Total equity and liabilities 354,391 354,562 Committee believes Avivas 2009 business results are strong and that Avivas remuneration practices already closely link pay to performance and also align with current governance guidelines.
The Committee has, however, continued to ensure prudent and proportionate reward outcomes.
34 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Summary remuneration report Andrea Moneta, Chief Executive Officer, Aviva Europe, A long term discretionary savings plan called the Aviva Middle East and Africa, was appointed an ED of Aviva plc Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP, used primarily for on 29 September 2009.
Information on his remuneration employees who can no longer accrue pension benefits therefore appears in this report for the first time.
or whose benefits are restricted under the Aviva Staff On 1 January 2010, Mark Hodges was appointed Chief Pension Scheme.
Executive Officer of the whole of Avivas UK insurance A car allowance, private medical insurance and operations, which brought together Avivas life and participation in the Companys all employee share plans.
As a result of this significant expansion of his managerial responsibilities, his basic Annual bonuses have targets set against a range of financial, salary was increased.
customer and employee metrics, accounting for 70% of the On 26 January 2010, Philip Scott retired from the Board.
bonus opportunity, with personal objectives accounting for He continues to be employed by the Group and will retire the remaining 30%.
Further details of his leaving arrangements Awards granted under the LTIP are subject to meeting are disclosed in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
performance conditions based on relative Total Shareholder Patrick Regan joined Aviva as the new Chief Financial Return TSR and Return on Capital Employed RoCE targets.
His joining arrangements The TSR performance conditions require Aviva to achieve and on-going annual remuneration are disclosed in the median or better performance against the TSR of a peer group full Annual Report and Accounts.
of major European financial services companies over the three year performance period for that element to vest.
RoCE Remuneration policy targets are set taking account of the Companys three year The Committees key objectives are to: business plan and are set on a Market Consistent Embedded Establish a competitive remuneration package to attract, Value basis.
retain and motivate high quality leaders: Promote the achievement of both the Companys annual TSR performance chart Financial year end plans and its strategic objectives by providing a remuneration Aviva FTSE 100 Comparator Group Median package that contains appropriately motivating targets that are within the Groups risk appetite: and 200 Align senior executives remuneration with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers 150 and employees.
100 The remuneration package Against this background, the Committee seeks to ensure that 50 whilst a competitive basic salary is paid, a substantial element of the remuneration package should be closely linked to the 0 performance of the business and delivered in the form of Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 shares.
During 2009, the remuneration package for the Companys EDs comprised the following elements: All EDs have a service contract which can be terminated by A basic salary.
the Company upon giving 12 months notice.
Non executive An annual bonus plan ABP to encourage executives to appointments can be terminated by either party at any time meet annual targets relating to business and agreed upon giving one months written notice.
Two-thirds of any bonus is paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
Future actions and changes A One Aviva Twice The Value OATTV Plan to align senior The Company does not anticipate any significant changes executives with the Group Chief Executives clear strategic to the structure of EDs remuneration packages in 2010, imperative of doubling earnings per share by the end of compared with that outlined below.
The plan matches 100% of the deferred ABP shares three points to note: for the Group Chief Executive 75% for other EDs.
For the 2009 has seen a series of regulatory and governance 2009 awards, the vesting of these matched shares is guidelines issued by organisations such as the Financial dependent on the achievement of 49.2 pence per share Services Authority and the Financial Stability Board of and then compounded annual growth targets.
Whilst many of the issued guidelines do not A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to align executives longer yet formally apply to Aviva, the Company has already term interests with those of shareholders.
reviewed its existing remuneration arrangements against A pension entitlement, although no ED is currently accruing these provisions.
service based benefits in the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
35 Aviva plc Summary remuneration report continued Annual Review 2009 2009 awards UK personal tax changes, effective April 2010, will create a significantly different tax position for some employees.
In addition to the remuneration set out in the table below, the following shares were awarded to EDs in 2009 under Due to the relatively large deferral of senior manager remuneration, it is the Companys view that they will the Companys share incentive plans.
The shares granted under the LTIP will only vest if certain conditions relating to be penalised more than their industry counterparts.
The Company, therefore, has made available the option the Companys performance over the three financial years commencing 1 January 2009 are met, as explained previously.
for these employees to receive deferred ABP awards as restricted stock.
Any potential cost to the Company is ABP Deferred Shares OATTV judged to be minimal.
In addition, the 2010 LTIP grant Shares Plan Shares LTIP Shares will be underpinned by an approved share option grant.
Andrew Moss 195,876 195,876 632,324 This will have no additional cost to the Company.
These Philip Scott 127,054 95,291 351,562 changes have been discussed with Her Majestys Revenue Mark Hodges 138,561 103,921 304,687 Andrea Moneta 159,375 119,531 249,023 and Customs before being implemented.
The aggregate net value of share awards granted to the directors in the period was The Company is required every five years to seek 5.256 million 2008: 4.319 million.
The net value has been calculated by reference shareholder approval for the operation of its share based to the market price at the date of grant.
It was agreed in 2008 that the review would be delayed by 12 months from 2009 to 2010 to In addition to the above, directors have interests in awards and enable Aviva to reflect on the new regulatory and options granted in previous years.
During the year, no share governance requirements that emerge from the global options were exercised by directors.
financial crisis and to put new proposals to shareholders in 2011.
Bonuses show the value at the date of award inclusive of the two-thirds of bonus which Aviva requires its EDs to defer into Aviva shares for three years.
All the EDs received life assurance benefits during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life and relevant spouses benefits which, had the director died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the pension scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company had the insurance not been in place.
The disclosure also includes the cost of private medical insurance and, where appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation and car benefits.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
Figures shown for Mr Moneta have been converted from Euro to Pound Sterling at the average exchange rate for 2009 of 1.12297 : 1.00.
Further details of Mr Monetas benefits are contained in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The grossed element for schooling and housing as outlined in the full Annual Report and Accounts will be delivered in 2010.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 5 to the Companies Act 2006, the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2009 was 6.7 million 2008: 5.2 million.
No compensation payment for loss of office was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
Annual bonuses are one-third paid in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares for three years.
36 Aviva plc Annual Review 2009 Shareholder services Shareholder profile The categories of shareholders and the range and size of shareholding as at 31 December 2009 are set out below: Analysis of shareholders No.
Group financial calendar for 2010 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2010 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 11 May 2010 Announcement of unaudited half-year results 05 August 2010 Announcement of third quarter Interim Management Statement 04 November 2010 Annual General Meeting Dividends Avivas Annual General Meeting will be held at: Dividends on our ordinary shares are normally paid in May and November: please see the following table for 2009 final The Barbican Centre dividend dates.
Dividends paid on our preference shares are normally paid in March, June, September and December: Silk Street please visit www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend payment dates.
London Holders of ordinary and preference shares receive their dividends in sterling and holders of ADRs will receive any EC2Y 8DS dividends paid by the Company in US dollars.
on: Wednesday Ordinary shares 2009 final dividend 28 April 2010 Ex-dividend date 24 March 2010 Record date 26 March 2010 at 11.00am Scrip dividend price setting period 24, 25, 26, 29, 30 March 2010 Scrip dividend price announcement date 31 March 2010 The Notice of Meeting, together with details of Last date for receipt of Scrip elections 16 April 2010 Dividend payment date 17 May 2010 the business to be conducted at the meeting, Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days is available on the Companys website at after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shareholders.
com agm If you are unable to attend the meeting but Share price would like to ask the Board of Directors a question You can access the current share price of Aviva plc ordinary regarding the business of the meeting, please do shares and ADRs at www.
com shareprice so via our website at www.
com agm If you would like to find out the price of Aviva preference Alternatively, you can write to us directly either shares, please visit the London Stock Exchange website via by email to agm.
Group Company Secretary, Freepost RLTE-RBXX RBHB, Group Secretarial Department, Aviva plc, St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ.
Answers to the most frequently asked questions will be available at the meeting and published on our website shortly after.
The voting results for the 2010 AGM, including proxy votes and votes withheld, will be accessible on our website at www.
Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual Review 2009 Be on your guard beware of fraudsters Online Shareholder Services Centre In recent years, many companies have become aware www.
com shareholderservices that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls The online shareholder services centre has been designed or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These to meet the specific needs of our shareholders, preference are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders and our American Depositary Receipt ADR shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to holders and includes features to allow you to manage your be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
holding in Aviva easily and efficiently.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
Within the online centre you will be able to find our Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any current and historic ordinary and ADR share prices, sharedealing unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers information, news, updates, and when available, presentations of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited advice: from the Group Chief Executive.
You will also be able to Make sure you get the correct name of the person and download an electronic copy of any current and past reports.
organisation There is also a range of frequently asked questions on holding Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before ordinary shares, preference shares and ADRs in Aviva, which getting involved by visiting www.
uk register include practical help on transferring shares, dealing facilities Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0300 500 and updating personal details.
5000 calls should cost no more than 01 or 02 UK-wide calls, and are included in inclusive mobile and landline Alternative format minutes.
If calling from overseas, please dial 44 20 7066 If you would like to request a copy of our reports in an 1000 or visit www.
uk alternative format, for example, braille or audio, please If the calls persist, hang up.
contact our Registrar, Equiniti, by calling 0871 384 2953 More detailed information on this can be found on the FSA Form 20-F website www.
uk Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the US and as such is subject to the reporting requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at www.
com reports Managing your shareholding American Depositary Receipts ADRs If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Aviva Avivas ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange please contact our Registrar, Equiniti.
Please quote Aviva plc, and our stock is traded as American Depositary Shares ADS.
as well as the name and address in which the shares are held, Aviva maintains a Level II ADR facility in the US, with each ADS and your Shareholder Reference Number, which you will find representing two 2 Aviva plc ordinary shares.
Aviva has a on your latest dividend stationery.
sponsored ADR facility administered by Citibank, NA.
Any queries regarding Aviva ADRs can be directed to Citibank by Equiniti post, telephone or email.
Aspect House Citibank Shareholder Services Spencer Road Lancing PO Box 43077 Providence, Rhode Island West Sussex BN99 6DA USA 02940-5000 Email Email Citibank@shareholders-online.
com Telephone 1 877 248 4237 toll free for callers within the US Telephone Telephone 1 781 575 4555 0871 384 2953 for callers outside of the US 44 0 121 415 7046 for callers outside of the UK Fax inquiries 1 201 324 3284 For information about Avivas ADR program, please go to www.
Internet sites Aviva Group Other useful links for shareholders: Dividend information www.
com Aviva Shareholder Services Centre www.
com dividends Aviva owns various internet sites, UK Long-term savings and www.
com Annual General Meeting information most of which interlink with general insurance shareholderservices www.
co. uk American Depositary Receipt holders Electronic voting for Annual Asset management www.
com adr General Meeting www.
com Aviva preference shareholders www.
com agm Aviva worldwide internet sites www.
com preferenceshares Aviva Share Price www.
com shareprice Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
This service will only be available until 48 hours before the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Online Annual Review In our online Annual Review, you will see exclusive interviews of the Group chief executive and members of our Executive management team.
You can view our Annual review here www.
co. uk Regional street scenes by Matt Mawson Board photography by Marcus Ginns and John Jordan This document is printed on Revive Pure White Uncoated, which is a recycled grade containing 100% post consumer waste and manufactured at a mill accredited with ISO14001 environmental management standard.
