The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 39 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued IFRS 8, Operating segments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 and aligns segment reporting with the requirements of the US standard SFAS 131, Disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information.
The new standard requires a management approach, under which segment information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
The Group expects to apply IFRS 8 from 1 November 2009.
This standard is unlikely to have a significant effect on the Group.
IAS 39 amendment, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The amendment permits an entity to reclassify particular financial assets in some circumstances.
The Group and Company will apply IAS 39 Amendment from 1 November 2009.
It is not expected to have an impact on the Group or Company's financial statements.
There are also a number of minor amendments to the following standards, which are part of the IASBs annual improvements project published in May 2008.
These amendments are subject to endorsement by the EU and they are unlikely to have any significant impact on the Group or Companys financial statements.
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors IAS 10 Events after the reporting period IAS 18 Revenue IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates IAS 32 amendment, 'Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 1, 'Presentation of financial statements Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation IAS 34 Interim financial reporting IAS 36 amendment Impairment of Assets iii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and are not relevant for the Groups operations: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes IAS 16 amendment, Property, plant and equipment and consequential amendment to IAS 7: Statement of cash flows IAS 29 amendment, Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies IAS 31 amendment, Interests in joint ventures and consequential amendments to IAS 32 and IFRS 7 IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets IAS 40 amendment, Investment property and consequential amendments to IAS 16 IAS 41 amendment Agriculture IAS 20 amendment Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance IFRIC 15, Agreements for construction of real estates b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and of its sole wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, The Army & Navy Investment Company Limited.
The intragroup balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The investment in the subsidiary is recognised at fair value in the financial statements of the Company.
