30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued cancellation of 863,774 ordinary shares of 25p.
The reason for required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days the buy backs was to enhance the net asset value per share.
unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will Since 31 October 2009 the Company has made purchases for continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights The Board is seeking shareholder approval to renew the Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call authority to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up to a general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice maximum of 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to at the date of the AGM equivalent to 16,787,458 ordinary preserve this ability, Resolution 13 seeks such approval.
The shares of 25p each at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution so would result in an increase in the net asset value per will be proposed.
ordinary share and would be in the best interests of Note that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, shareholders generally.
The authority being sought provides an in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than additional source of potential demand for the Companys 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of shares.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising the Recommendation and Voting Intentions benefit to shareholders.
The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the above items of special business are in the best interests New Articles of Association of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board In addition to matters which are usually dealt with at the unanimously recommends to shareholders that they AGM, we are also asking shareholders to approve new articles vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed of association the New Articles in substitution for the at the forthcoming AGM.
current articles of association the Current Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information primarily to take account of the coming into force of the to Auditors Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of Shareholders Rights Regulations and the implementation approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors confirms that: The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General information relevant to the preparation of the Annual Meeting on page 67.
Other changes, which are of a minor, Report and Financial Statements of which the Companys technical or clarifying nature and also some other minor auditors are unaware: and changes which merely reflect changes made by the he has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be Companies Act 2006 or the Shareholders Rights Regulations, expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in information and to establish that the Companys auditors the model articles for public companies produced by the are aware of that information.
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, have not been noted in the Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the By order of the Board changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 66 of this document.
W J King FCIS Notice of general meetings For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Secretary Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period 15 January 2010
