The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 63 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twentysection 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority second Annual General Meeting of The Bankers Investment conferred by resolution 9 as if section 561 of the Act did Trust PLC will be held on the 12th floor, 201 Bishopsgate, not apply to the allotment.
This power shall be limited: London EC2M 3AE on Tuesday 23 February 2010 at 2.30pm a to the allotment of equity securities whether by way of for the transaction of the following business: a rights issue, open offer or otherwise to ordinary shareholders and or holders of any other securities in 1 To receive the report of the directors and the audited accordance with the rights of those securities where the financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2009. equity securities respectively attributable to the interests 2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year of all ordinary shareholders and or such holders are ended 31 October 2009. proportionate or as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares and such equity securities 3 To declare a final dividend.
held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance 4 To re-appoint Mr R D Brewster as a director.
with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other 5 To re-appoint Mr F I Sumner as a director.
arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or local 6 To re-appoint Mr R W Killingbeck as a director.
or practical problems under the laws of, or the 7 To re-appoint  LLP as registered requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock auditors to the Company.
exchange in any territory or otherwise howsoever: 8 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subremuneration.
paragraph a above of equity securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of 2,799,776 Special Business being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: capital at the date of this Notice : and c to the allotment of equity securities at a price not less As an Ordinary Resolution than the Net Asset Value per share 9 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the General Meeting of the Company in 2011, save that the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the directors may before such expiry make an offer or meaning of section 551 up to an aggregate nominal amount agreement which would or might require equity securities to of 2,799,776 being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot at the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting for a equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of the 11THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011, but that unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 the Company may make an offer or agreement which would of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of this authority and the Board may allot relevant securities in of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the pursuance of that offer or agreement.
Company provided that: As Special Resolutions a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be 10THAT in substitution for all existing authorities and subject purchased is 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary to the passing of resolution 9 the directors be empowered share capital at the date of the Annual General Meeting pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the equivalent to 16,787,458 ordinary shares at the date of Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of this notice : 64 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may Notes be paid for an ordinary share shall not exceed 105% of 1.
Voting record date the average of the middle market quotations for the Only members registered in the Register of Members of the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Company at 6.00pm on 19 February 2010 shall be entitled to Official List for the five business days preceding the attend and vote at the AGM in respect of the number of date of purchase: voting rights registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may 19 February 2010 shall be disregarded in determining the be paid for a share shall be 25p, being the nominal rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
value per share: In the case of joint holders of a voting right, the vote of the d this authority hereby conferred shall expire at the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other Company in 2011: joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be e the Company may make a contract to purchase determined by the order in which the names stand in the ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred Register of Members in respect of the joint holding.
which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase 2.
Rights to attend and vote of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract: and Members are entitled to attend and vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting or at any adjournment s thereof.
On f any ordinary shares so purchased shall be cancelled.
a poll each member has one vote for every four shares held.
12THAT a the Articles of Association of the Company be amended 3.
Right to appoint proxies by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act 2006, a Memorandum of Association which by virtue of Section member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be created as appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
b the regulations contained in the printed document produced to the meeting and marked A and for the A form of proxy is enclosed.
The completion of the form of purposes of identification initialled by the chairman of proxy or any CREST proxy instruction as described in the meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the paragraph 7 below will not preclude a shareholder from Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for attending and voting in person at the meeting.
and to the exclusion of all existing Articles of Association.
Section 324 does not apply to persons nominated to receive 13THAT a general meeting other than an annual general information rights pursuant to section 146 of the Companies meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days Act 2006.
Persons nominated to receive information rights notice.
under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have been sent this notice of meeting and are hereby informed, in accordance By order of the Board with section 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that they may have the right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they are nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If W J King FCIS they have such right or do not wish to exercise it, they may For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to Secretary the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
15 January 2010 Nominated persons should contact the registered member by Registered Office: 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 65 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the is available to download from the Euroclear website appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not www.
CREST personal members or apply to nominated persons.
other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer 4.
Proxies rights to vote at the meeting to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will On a vote on a show of hands, each proxy has one vote.
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to If a proxy is appointed by more than one member and all such be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy members have instructed the proxy to vote in the same way, Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance the proxy will only be entitled, on a show of hands, to vote with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must for or against as applicable.
If a proxy is appointed by contain the information required for such instructions, as more than one member, but such members have given described in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of different voting instructions, the proxy may, on a show of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an hands, vote both for and against in order to reflect the amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed different voting instructions.
proxy, must be transmitted so as to be received by the Issuers On a poll all or any of the voting rights of the member may agent RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy be exercised by one or more duly appointed proxies.
appointments specified in note 6 above.
For this purpose, the However, where a member appoints more than one proxy, time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by section 285 4 of the Companies Act 2006 does not the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST authorise the exercise by the proxies taken together of more applications host from which the issuers agent is able to extensive voting rights than could be exercised by the retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner member in person.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 5.
Voting by corporate representatives communicated to the appointee through other means.
Corporate representatives are entitled to attend and vote on CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or behalf of the corporate member in accordance with section voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & 323 of the Companies Act 2006 provided they do not do so Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in in relation to the same shares.
CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST 6.
Receipt and termination of proxies Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal with the Companys Registrars Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR before service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting 2.30pm on 19 February 2010. service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to A member may terminate a proxys authority at any time before ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST the commencement of the meeting.
Termination must be system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST provided in writing and submitted to the Companys Registrar.
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical In accordance with the Companys articles of association, in limitations of the CREST system and timings.
determining the time for delivery of proxies, no account shall be taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the 7.
Electronic receipt of proxies Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may 8.
Questions at the Annual General Meeting do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask utilising the procedures described in the CREST manual, which questions.
Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 requires
