66 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the directors to answer any question raised at the AGM which 10.
Total voting rights at date of notice relates to the business of the meeting, although no answer As at 15 January 2010 being the last practicable date prior to need be given a if to do so would interfere unduly with the the publication of this Notice the total number of shares in preparation of the meeting or involve disclosure of the Company is 111,991,050.
The total number of voting confidential information: b if the answer has already been rights on that date is therefore 27,997,762. given on the Companys website: or c if it is undesirable in the best interests of the Company or the good order of the 11.
Documents for inspection meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of the proposed new articles of association of the Company, and a copy of the existing memorandum and Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the articles of association marked to show the changes being Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a proposed is available for inspection at the registered office of statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the Company at 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE.
the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before Annual General Meeting Venue the meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Company's auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have agreed to receive any communications relating to the Companys shares made at the meeting.
Website A copy of the notice of the Annual General Meeting, including these explanatory notes and other information Henderson Global Investors is located in the City of required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, London at Bishopsgate.
It is a few minutes walk from is included on the Companys website, Liverpool Street mainline and underground stations, Bank and Moorgate underground stations.
com Warning to Shareholders Over recent months many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti formerly Lloyds TSB Registrars, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on the inside back cover of this Report.
