The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 33 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the financial position of the Company and the Group and statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for directors have elected to prepare the Group and parent safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and company financial statements in accordance with International hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Each of the directors, who are listed on page 19 confirm that, Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group to the best of their knowledge: for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and consistently: profit of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Report of the Directors in this Annual Report includes a reasonable and prudent: fair review of the development and performance of the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European business and the position of the Group, together with a Union have been followed, subject to any material description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
departures disclosed and explained in the financial For and on behalf of the Board statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
R D Brewster The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Chairman records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 15 January 2010 The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
