The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 67 Appendix Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting of the principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 12 to adopt new articles of and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables association the New Articles in order to update the directors to determine such matters instead provided they are Companys current articles of association the Current so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an Articles.
Below is an explanation of the principal changes.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders 1.
The Companys objects authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys memorandum and articles 6.
Directors conflicts of interest of association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among The New Articles reflect the most recent changes to the other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of Companies Act 2006 with respect to conflicts of interest.
the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
Use of seals drafted to give a wide scope.
The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each whereas previously the requirement was for signature by subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the either a director and the secretary or two directors or such Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other other person or persons as the directors may approve.
provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, 8.
Suspension of registration of share transfers for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the contained in the companys articles of association but the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power Further the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are is inconsistent with this requirement.
This abolishes the need for companies to have has been removed in the New Articles.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of 9.
Chairmans casting vote its memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a are treated as forming part of the Companys articles of casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 12 a confirms longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006. the removal of these provisions for the Company.
Notice of general meetings of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Companies the Companys memorandum of association regarding limited Act 2006 to require the company to give 21 clear days notice liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement of general meetings unless the company offers members an regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the 2.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions Annual general meetings must be held on 21 clear days contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended notice.
The New Articles amend the provisions of the Current to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Articles to be consistent with the new requirements.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this the original meeting.
The Current Articles have been changed provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass a to reflect this requirement.
resolution to change the Companys name.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a Shareholders Rights Regulations the company must determine company to have an authorised share capital and the New the right of members to vote at a general meeting by Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of authority continues to be required under the Companies Act days which are not working days.
The Current Articles have 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
been amended to reflect this requirement.
Furthermore, the New Articles allow the Company to re- 13.
General denominate its share capital by converting shares from a fixed Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer nominal value in one currency to having a fixed nominal value language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform in another currency.
the language of the New Articles with that used in the model 5.
Redeemable shares articles for public companies produced by the Department for Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue Business, Innovation and Skills.
redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms
