38 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2009 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that IFRSs have been adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis consistent with the recommendations of the SORP.
i Standards, amendments and interpretations becoming effective in the year to 31 October 2009 but are not relevant to the Group or Company: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements IFRIC 14, IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction.
ii Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that become effective in future accounting periods and have not been adopted early by the Group: IFRS 7 amended, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of fair value measurement hierarchy.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of Financial Statements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Introduces financial statement name changes for the purposes of accounting standards.
The new names are not mandatory for financial reporting and the Group does not currently expect to apply the new statement names.
IAS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
The Group has no qualifying assets.
IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations effective for financial periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
This standard changes elements of the acquisition method for business combinations, including that all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified as debt, subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 revised to all business combinations from 1 November 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Consequential amendments arising from IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard is unlikely to have any significant impact on the Group.
The Group expects to apply IAS 27 Revised from 1 November 2009.
