42 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued k Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
l Repurchase of ordinary shares The cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including related stamp duty and transaction costs are taken directly to equity and dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Share repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
The nominal value of ordinary share capital repurchased and cancelled is transferred out of called-up share capital and into the capital redemption reserve.
m Capital reserves The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments sold: expenses and finance costs charged to capital net of tax relief: gains and losses on the disposals of investments: foreign exchange differences of a capital nature arising on settlement of monetary assets liabilities: and costs of repurchasing ordinary share capital.
The following are accounted for in the Capital reserve arising on investments held: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and foreign exchange differences of a capital nature arising on settlement of monetary assets liabilities.
n Key estimates and assumptions Estimates and assumptions used in preparing the financial statements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The results of these estimates and assumptions form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The only estimates and assumptions that may cause material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities relate to the valuation of unquoted investments.
These are valued in accordance with the techniques set out in note 1 c. At the year end, unquoted investments represent 0.3% of net assets.
2009 2008 2 Gains losses on investments 000 000 Losses gains on sales of investments based on historical cost 18,157 19,993 Add less : revaluation losses gains recognised in previous years 18,381 70,284 Gains losses on investments sold in the year based on carrying value at previous balance sheet date 224 50,291 Revaluation of investments held at 31 October 66,291 133,659 Exchange gains 333 892 66,848 183,058
