40 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued c Investments held at fair value through profit or loss All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Assets are fide-recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value, which are regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial instruments in the balance sheet is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction of the estimated future selling costs.
Unquoted investments including the Companys investment in its subsidiary are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
d Presentation of Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income Statement between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing the Groups compliance with certain requirements set out in section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Special dividends are treated as revenue return or as capital return, depending on the facts of each individual case.
Income from fixed interest debt securities is recognised using the effective interest rate method.
The trading profits of the subsidiary undertaking, which represent realised gains and losses on the sale of current asset investments, are dealt with in the revenue return column of the Income Statement as a revenue item.
Bank deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, this creates a derivative financial instrument.
Any such derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Income Statement.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where the actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income, are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
f Expenses All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an accruals basis.
On the basis of the Boards expected longterm split of total returns in the form of capital and revenue returns of 70% and 30%, respectively, the Company charges 70% of its finance costs and investment management fees to capital.
Any performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, reflecting the fact that, although they are calculated on a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
Expenses which are incidental to the purchase or sale of an investment are charged to the capital return column of the Income Statement and allocated to other capital reserves.
All other operating expenses are charged to the revenue return column of the Income Statement.
