68 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced June Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Financial Statements are posted to Third interim paid end November shareholders in January and the AGM is held in London in Final paid end February late February.
Debenture stock interest 1 Share Price Information 10 % debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 2 The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is paid on 30 April and 31 October.
published in The Financial Times and other leading Total Expense Ratio newspapers.
The share price and details of the Companys Total Expense Ratio is defined here as the total annual pre tax performance can be found on the following websites: operating expenses management fee and other www.
com administration costs expressed as a percentage of average and www.
com shareholders funds over the year.
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is Investing in Bankers 0076700.
Ordinary shares may be bought directly through Halifax Share The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate Dealing.
In addition, they may be bought or sold directly of the net asset value and of the discount premium.
through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent financial adviser or through a number of banks or building A brief history societies who are also providing this service.
The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine original directors were bankers by profession, the name Disability The Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered Copies of this Report and Financial Statement or other appropriate.
The Company has paid dividends on the equity documents issued by the Company are available from the capital every year since incorporation except in the years 1892 Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of Nominee Code formats, either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide appropriate.
copies of shareholder communications to nominee You can contact our registrars, Equiniti Limited, who have operators who have indicated in advance a wish to receive installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired them, for the purpose of distribution to their customers.
people who have their own textphone to contact them Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors that directly by ringing 0870 600 3950 without the need for an they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are available when invited by the Chairman.
during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Investors through Halifax Share Dealing Limited formerly Itshenderson receive all shareholder communications, an Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator invitation to the AGM and a Voting Instruction Form to provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you facilitate voting.
should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
Capital Gains Tax The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
Investor Information continued Directors Registrars Richard D Brewster Chairman UK Registrar Richard R J Burns Equiniti Limited, Richard W Killingbeck Holm Oak Business Park, Francis I Sumner Senior Independent Director Martlets Way, David G Thomas Goring by Sea, Matthew W J Thorne Worthing, West Sussex BN12 4QY Audit Committee Telephone: 0870 600 3970 David G Thomas Chairman Richard W Killingbeck There is now a range of shareholder information on line.
You Francis I Sumner can check your holding and find practical help on transferring Matthew W J Thorne shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Management Engagement Committee Richard D Brewster Chairman New Zealand Registrar Richard R J Burns Computershare Investor Services Limited, Richard W Killingbeck Private Bag 92119, Francis I Sumner Auckland 1142, New Zealand David G Thomas Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Matthew W J Thorne Stockbrokers Nominations Committee UK Richard D Brewster Chairman JP Morgan Cazenove, Richard R J Burns 20 Moorgate, Francis I Sumner London EC2R 6DA Richard W Killingbeck New Zealand Charities Committee First NZ Capital Securities, Francis I Sumner Chairman Level 20, ANZ Centre, Richard D Brewster 23-29 Albert Street, Investment Manager PO Box 5333, Henderson Global Investors Limited is Auckland, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority New Zealand and is represented by Alex Crooke Solicitors Secretary Norton Rose, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 3 More London, represented by Wendy King FCIS Riverside, Registered Number London SE1 2AQ Registered in England No.
26351C Custodian Registered Office BNP Paribas Securities Services, 201 Bishopsgate, 55 Moorgate, London EC2M 3AE London EC2R 6PA Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Halifax Share Dealing Limited Independent Auditors Lovell Park Road,  LLP, Leeds LS1 1NS Hays Galleria, Telephone: 0845 609 408 1 Hays Lane, London SE1 2RD The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This report is printed on 9lives, a paper containing 55% recycled fibre & 45% FSC accredited virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed by Beacon Press.
Beacon Press uses pureprint environmental print technology.
The electricity used was Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 generated from renewable sources and vegetable inks used throughout.
Beacon Press is a Carbon Neutral company.
