338 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Glossary of terms Term used in Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accounts Financial statements Allotted Issued Attributable profit Net income Called up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances Cash at bank and in hand Cash Class of business Industry segment Finance lease Capital lease Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Loans and advances Lendings Loan capital Long-term debt Net asset value Book value Profit Income Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable Shares in issue Shares outstanding Write-offs Charge-offs ABS CDO Super Senior The super senior tranches of debt linked to Asset backed products As used in Note 50, asset backed products are debt collateralised debt obligations of asset backed securities defined below.
and derivative products that are linked to the cash flow of a referenced asset.
Payment of super senior tranches takes priority over other obligations.
This category includes asset backed loans: collateralised debt obligations See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
CDOs : collateralised loan obligations CLOs : asset backed credit derivatives ABS CDS : asset backed and mortgage backed securities.
Absa Refers to the results for Absa Group Limited as consolidated into the results of Barclays PLC: translated into Sterling with adjustments for Asset Backed Securities ABS Securities that represent an interest in an amortisation of intangible assets, certain head office adjustments, transfer underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can comprise any pricing and non-controlling interests.
assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages and, in the case of Collateralised Absa Capital The portion of Absas results that is reported by Barclays Debt Obligations CDOs, the referenced pool may be ABS or other classes within the Barclays Capital business.
See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
Absa Card The portion of Absas results that arises from the Absa credit Assets margin Interest earned on customer assets relative to the average card business and is reported within Barclaycard.
internal funding rate, divided by average customer assets, expressed as an Absa Group Limited Refers to the consolidated results of the South African annualised percentage.
group of which the Parent Company is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Average balances which make up the average balance sheet are based Exchange JSE Limited in which Barclays owns a controlling stake.
upon daily averages for most UK banking operations and monthly averages ABX Index An index tracking the yields of a basket of credit default swaps outside the UK.
linked to sub-prime mortgages, widely used in the industry.
Average base rates Average of the official base rate.
HE Index An index referencing the yield on a basket of 20 subprime Average net income generated per member of staff Total operating income mortgage-backed securities, widely used in the industry.
compared to the average number of employees for the reporting period.
Adjusted Gross Leverage The multiple of adjusted total tangible assets Backstop facility A standby facility, that is a liquidity arrangement whereby over total qualifying Tier 1 capital.
Adjusted total tangible assets are total another party agrees to make a payment should the primary party not do so.
assets less derivative counterparty netting, assets under management on the balance sheet, settlement balances, goodwill and intangible assets.
Basis point One hundredth of a per cent 0.01%, so 100 basis points is See Tier 1 Capital below.
Used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
Alt-A Loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk CMBS Index Products CMBX The CMBX is a series of CMBS credit default characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
See Risk Management swap indices.
It allows investors to take diversified exposure long or short section Credit Market Exposures.
CMBX is administered by Markit, which serves as the calculation and marketing agent for CMBX.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR is the sensitivity of annual earnings to shocks in market rates, at approximately 99th percentile for change over CMBS IG Index An index compiled by Barclays Capital, which measures the one year.
For interest rates this equates to a 2% parallel shift in rates.
return for CMBS securities with an original deal size of $500m or greater, For equity indices, it equates to a 25% change from one-year end to combined with a required rating of Baa3 BBBor higher investment grade.
the next, or 15% from one-year end to the next years average.
In addition, maturity must be equal to or greater than one year and no floating rate certificates may be included.
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs Securities issued by a third party or overdue.
Such a customer is also said to be in a state of delinquency.
which reference Asset Backed Securities ABSs defined above and or When a customer is in arrears, his entire outstanding balance is said to be certain other related assets purchased by the issuer.
CDOs may feature delinquent, meaning that delinquent balances are the total outstanding exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
2 loans on which payments are overdue.
CDO securities represent investments in CDOs that have been securitised by a third party.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 339 Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO A security backed by the repayments Credit market exposures Relates to commercial real estate and leveraged from a pool of commercial loans.
The payments may be made to different finance businesses that have been significantly impacted by the continued classes of owners in tranches.
See Risk Management section Credit deterioration in the global credit markets.
The exposures include positions Market Exposures.
subject to fair value movements in the Income Statement, positions that are classified as loans and advances and available for sale.
Collateralised Synthetic Obligation CSO A form of synthetic collateralised debt obligation CDO that does not hold assets like bonds or loans but Other credit products As used in Note 50, these are products linked to the invests in credit default swaps CDSs or other non-cash assets to gain credit risk of a referenced entity, index or a basket.
This category includes exposure to a portfolio of fixed income assets.
collateralised synthetic obligations non-asset backed CDOs and OTC derivatives.
The OTC derivatives are namely, CDS single name: CDS index: Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS Securities that represent CDS index tranche and Nth to default basket swaps in which the payout is interests in a pool of commercial mortgages.
Investors in these securities linked to one in a series of defaults, such as first-, secondor third-to-default, have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest with the contract terminating at that point.
Credit Risk Loans CRLs A loan becomes a credit risk loan when evidence Commercial Real Estate Includes office buildings, industrial property, of deterioration has been observed, for example a missed payment or other medical centres, hotels, malls, retail stores, shopping centres, farm land, breach of covenant.
A loan may be reported in one of three categories: multifamily housing buildings, warehouses, garages, and industrial impaired loans, accruing past due 90 days or more or impaired and properties.
Commercial real estate loans are those backed by a package restructured loans.
These may include loans which, while impaired, are still of commercial real estate assets.
See Risk Management section performing but have associated individual impairment allowances raised Credit Market Exposures.
Commercial Paper An unsecured promissory note issued to finance Credit spread The yield spread between securities with the same coupon short-term credit needs.
It specifies the face amount paid to investors r ate and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks, with on the maturity date.
the yield spread rising as the credit rating worsens.
It is the premium over Commodity products As used in Note 50, these products are exchange the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower traded and OTC derivatives based on a commodity underlying e. g. metals, credit quality.
precious metals, oil and oil related, power and natural gas.
Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA The difference between the risk-free Compensation:income ratio Staff compensation based costs compared value of a portfolio of trades and the market value which takes into account to total income net of insurance claims.
the counterpartys risk of default.
The CVA therefore represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to Conduits A financial vehicle that holds asset-backed debt such as incorporate the credit risk of the counterparty due to any failure to perform mortgages, vehicle loans, and credit card receivables, all financed with on contractual agreements.
short-term loans generally commercial paper that use the asset-backed debt as collateral.
The profitability of a conduit depends on the ability to roll Customer deposits Money deposited by all individuals and companies that ar over maturing short-term debt at a cost that is lower than the returns e not credit institutions.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities in the Groups earned from asset-backed securities held in the portfolio.
See Risk balance sheet under Customer Accounts.
Management section Credit Market Exposures.
Daily Value at Risk DVaR An estimate of the potential loss which might Core Tier 1 capital Called-up share capital and eligible reserves plus equity arise from market movements under normal market conditions, if the non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and deductions relating to current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, the excess of expected loss over regulatory impairment allowance and measured to a confidence level.
securitisation positions as specified by the FSA.
Debit Valuation Adjustment DVA The opposite of credit valuation Core Tier 1 capital ratio Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk adjustment CVA.
It is the difference between the risk-free value of a weighted assets.
portfolio of trades and the market value which takes into account Barclays Groups risk of default.
The DVA, therefore, represents an estimate of the Cost:income ratio Operating expenses compared to total income net adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate of insurance claims.
the credit risk of Barclays Group due to any failure to perform on contractual Cost:net income ratio Operating expenses compared to total income net agreements.
The DVA decreases the value of a liability to take into account a reduction in the remaining balance that would be settled should Barclays of insurance claims less impairment charges.
Group default or not perform in terms of contractual agreements.
Coverage ratio CRL Impairment allowances as a percentage of CRL balances.
Debt restructuring This is when the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash Credit conversion factors CCFs The portion of an off-balance sheet flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering commitment drawn in the event of a future default.
The conversion factor the repayment schedule as well as reducing the debt or interest charged is expressed as a percentage.
The conversion factor is used to calculate on the loan.
the exposure at default EAD.
Credit Default Swaps CDS A credit derivative is an arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer Dividend payout ratio Yearly dividends paid per share as a fraction of to the seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the earnings per share.
protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return Economic capital An internal measure of the minimum equity and for contracting to make payments to the protection buyer in the event of a preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating based defined credit event.
Credit events normally include bankruptcy, payment upon its risk profile.
default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Economic profit Profit after tax and non-controlling interests excluding Credit Derivative Product Company CDPC A company that sells amortisation of acquired intangible assets less a capital charge representing protection on credit derivatives.
CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
adjusted average shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests However, unlike monoline insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
multiplied by the Group cost of capital.
340 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Glossary of terms continued Equity products As used in Note 50, these products are linked to equity Individually Collectively Assessed Impairment is measured individually markets.
This category includes listed equities, exchange traded for assets that are individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio derivatives, equity derivatives, preference shares and contract for comprises homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical difference CFD products.
Equity structural hedge An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce Interest rate products As used in Note 50, these are products with a payoff the impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on equity linked to interest rates.
This category includes interest rate swaps, positions on the balance sheet that do not reprice with market rates.
swaptions, caps and exotic interest rate derivatives.
Expected loss The Group measure of anticipated loss for exposures Investment grade A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument with captured under an internal ratings based credit risk approach for capital a credit rating measured by external agencies of AAA to BBB.
It is measured as the Barclays modelled view of Jaws The difference between the growth in cost and the growth in income.
anticipated loss based on Probability of Default PD, Loss Given Default LGD and Exposure at Default EAD, with a one-year time horizon.
LCDX Index The Loan Credit Default Swap Index, a generally accepted loan-only credit default swap index created by CDSIndexCo.
The LCDX index Exposure in the event of default EAD The estimation of the extent to is a tradeable index with 100 equally-weighted underlying single-name which Barclays may be exposed to a customer or counterparty in the event loan-only credit default swaps LCDS.
of, and at the time of, that counterpartys default.
At default, the customer may not have drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the Leveraged Finance Loans or other financing agreements provided to principal, so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
companies whose overall level of debt is high in relation to their cash flow net debt: EBITDA typically arising from private equity sponsor led FICO score A credit score, based on the Fair Isaac Corporation being the acquisitions of the businesses concerned.
US rating company that wrote the software that calculates the scores.
Liabilities margin Interest paid on customer liabilities relative to the average First Second Lien First lien: debt that places its holder first in line to collect internal funding rate, divided by average customer liabilities.
Expressed as compensation from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a an annualised percentage.
Second lien: debt that is issued against the same collateral as higher lien debt but that is subordinate to it.
In the case of Liquidity and Credit enhancements Credit enhancement facilities are used default, compensation for this debt will only be received after the first lien to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due has been repaid and thus represents a riskier investment than the first lien.
Two general types of credit enhancement are third-party loan See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
guarantees and self-enhancement through over collateralization.
Liquidity enhancement makes funds available if required, for other reasons than asset Full time equivalent Full time equivalent employee units are the on-job default, e. g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
hours paid for employee services divided by the number of ordinary-time hours normally paid for a full-time staff member when on the job or Liquidity pool buffer The Group liquidity pool comprises cash at central contract employee where applicable.
banks and highly liquid collateral specifically held by the Group as contingency to enable the bank to meet cash outflows in the event Funds and fund-linked products As used in Note 50, this category of stressed market conditions.
includes holdings in mutual funds, hedge funds, fund of funds and fund linked derivatives.
Loan loss rate Defined as total credit impairment charge excluding available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements divided by Funded unfunded Exposures where the notional amount of the gross loans and advances to customers and banks at amortised cost.
transaction is either funded or unfunded.
Represents exposures where a commitment to provide future funding has been made and the funds have Loan to deposit ratio The ratio of wholesale and retail loans and advances been released not released.
to customers net of impairment allowance divided by customer deposits.
FX products As used in Note 50, these products are derivatives linked to Loan funding ratio The ratio of wholesale and retail loans and advances the foreign exchange market.
This category includes FX spot and forward to customers net of impairment allowance, divided by the total of customer contracts: FX swaps: FX options.
accounts, long-term debt 1 yr and equity.
Gain on acquisition The amount by which the acquirers interest in the Loan to value ratio LTV The amount of a first mortgage lien as a net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, percentage of the total appraised value of real property.
The LTV ratio is recognised in a business combination, exceeds the cost of the combination.
used in determining the appropriate level of risk for the loan and therefore the price of the loan to the borrower.
LTV ratios may be expressed in a Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa The portion of Absas results number of ways, including origination LTV and mark to market MTM LTV.
that is reported within the Global Retail and Commercial Banking business.
Origination LTVs use the current outstanding loan balance and the value Home Loans A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used of the property at origination of the loan.
MTM LTVs use the current as collateral to guarantee repayment of the loan.
The borrower gives the outstanding loan value and the current value of the property which is lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose on the estimated using one or more external house price indices.
property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Loans past due Loans are past due when a counterparty has failed to make Also known as a residential mortgage.
Impaired loans Loans are reported as Credit Risk Loans defined above Loss Given Default LGD The fraction of Exposure at Default EAD and comprise loans where individual identified impairment allowance has defined above that will not be recovered following default.
LGD comprises been raised and also include loans which are fully collateralised or where the actual loss the part that is not expected to be recovered, together with indebtedness has already been written down to the expected realisable the economic costs associated with the recovery process.
The impaired loan category may include loans, which, while impaired, are still performing.
Markit LCDX Index An index compiled by Markit Inc, a specialist securities market researcher, compiled by reference to first lien loans issued by Impairment allowances A provision held on the balance sheet as a result 100 entities listed on the Markit Syndicated Secured List, widely used of the raising of a charge against profit for the incurred loss inherent in the in the industry.
An impairment allowance may either be identified or unidentified and individual or collective.
Medium Term Notes MTNs Corporate notes continuously offered by a company to investors through a dealer.
Investors can choose from differing Income Total income net of insurance claims, unless otherwise specified.
maturities, ranging from nine months to 30 years.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 341 Monoline An entity which specialises in providing credit protection to the Private equity investments As used in Note 50, private equity is equity holders of debt instruments in the event of default by a debt security securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
This protection is typically held in the form of derivatives such Investment in private equity often involves the investment of capital in as credit default swaps CDS referencing the underlying exposures held.
private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
the delisting of public equity.
Capital for private equity investment is raised by retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment strategies Monoline Wrapped Debt instruments for which credit enhancement or such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed protection by a monoline insurer has been obtained.
The wrap is credit investments and mezzanine capital.
protection against the notional and principal interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default in payment of these by Probability of default PD The likelihood that a loan will not be repaid the underlying counterparty.
Therefore, if a security is monoline wrapped and will fall into default.
PD may be calculated for each client who has a loan its payments of principal and interest are guaranteed by a monoline insurer.
normally applicable to wholesale customers clients or for a portfolio See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
of clients with similar attributes normally applicable to retail customers.
To calculate PD, Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other Mortgage Backed Securities MBS Securities that represent interests counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Multiple rating in a group of mortgages.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision on individual large received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
credits, such as internal and external models, rating agency ratings, and for See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
wholesale assets market information such as credit spreads.
For smaller credits, Mortgage vintage The year the mortgage was issued.
a single source may suffice such as the result from an internal rating model.
Mortgage related securities Securities which are referenced to underlying Product structural hedge An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce mortgages.
the impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on-balance sheet positions that can be matched to a specific product, e. g. customer Net Asset Value per Share Computed by dividing shareholders equity balances that do not reprice with market rates.
excluding non-controlling interests by the number of issued ordinary shares.
Renegotiated loans Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either Net Equity The change in shareholders equity between one period as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse and another.
change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation Net Interest Income The difference between interest received on assets can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans and interest paid on liabilities including the interest income on Group equity.
under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue Net Interest Margin The margin is expressed as annualised net interest and will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of income for GRCB and Barclays Wealth divided by the sum of the average interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the assets and average liabilities for GRCB and Barclays Wealth.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which Net Tangible Asset Value per Share Computed by dividing shareholders is treated as a new loan.
equity excluding non-controlling interests less goodwill and intangible Repo Reverse repo A repurchase agreement that allows a borrower to assets, by the number of issued ordinary shares.
use a financial security as collateral for a cash loan at a fixed rate of interest.
Non-asset backed debt instruments As used in Note 50, these products In a repo, the borrower agrees to sell a security to the lender subject to a are debt instruments.
This category includes government bonds: US agency commitment to repurchase the asset at a specified price on a given date.
bonds: corporate bonds: commercial paper: certificates of deposit: For the party selling the security and agreeing to repurchase it in the future convertible bonds: corporate bonds and issued notes.
it is a repo: for the party on the other end of the transaction buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase Non-investment grade A debt security, treasury bill or similar instrument agreement or reverse repo.
with a credit rating measured by external agencies of BB or below.
Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS Securities that represent Notional Collateral Collateral based on the notional amount of interests in a group of residential mortgages.
Investors in these securities a financial instrument.
have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest Over the counter derivatives OTC Contracts that are traded and privately and or principal.
negotiated directly between two parties, without going through an Restructured loans Impaired and restructured loans comprises loans exchange or other intermediary.
They offer flexibility because, unlike where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial standardised exchange-traded products, they can be tailored to fit difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not specific needs.
Where the concession results in the expected Own Credit The effect of the Groups own credit standing on the fair value cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate being less than of financial liabilities.
the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised.
PCRL Coverage ratio Impairment allowances as a percentage of total CRL Retail Loans Loans to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both credit risk loan & PPL potential problem loan balances.
secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
Potential Credit Risk Loans PCRLs Comprise the outstanding balances Return on average economic capital Profit for the year attributable to Potential Problem Loans defined below and the three categories of to equity holders of the Parent divided by average economic capital.
Credit Risk Loans defined above.
Return on average shareholders equity Calculated as profit for the year Potential Problem Loans PPLs Loans where serious doubt exists as to attributable to equity holders of the Parent divided by the average the ability of the borrowers to continue to comply with repayment terms shareholders equity for the year, excluding non-controlling interests.
Risk asset ratio A measure of the risk attached to the assets of a business Prime Loans of a higher credit quality and would be expected to satisfy using definitions of capital and risk weightings established in accordance the criteria for inclusion into Government programmes.
with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
Principal transactions Principal transactions comprise net trading income Risk weighted assets A measure of a banks assets adjusted for their and net investment income.
Risk weightings are established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord as implemented by the FSA.
342 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Glossary of terms continued Securitisation A process by which debt instruments are aggregated into a Subordination The state of prioritising repayments of principal and interest pool, which is used to back new securities.
A company sells assets to an SPV on debt to a creditor lower than repayments to other creditors by the same special purpose vehicle who then issues securities backed by the assets debtor.
That is, claims of a security are settled by a debtor to a creditor only based on their value.
This allows the credit quality of the assets to be after the claims of securities held by other creditors of the same debtor have separated from the credit rating of the original company and transfers risk been settled.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or SIV Lites Are SPEs Special Purpose Entities which invest in diversified liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and portfolios of interest earning assets to take advantage of the spread other creditors of the issuer.
differentials between the assets in the SIV and the funding cost.
Unlike SIVs Sub-Prime Defined as loans to borrowers typically having weakened credit they are not perpetual, making them look more like CDOs, which have fixed histories that include payment delinquencies and potentially more severe maturity dates.
problems such as court judgements and bankruptcies.
They may also Special Purpose Entities SPEs Entities that are created to accomplish a display reduced repayment capacity as measured by credit scores, high narrow and well defined objective.
There are often specific restrictions or debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria indicating heightened risk of default.
limits around their ongoing activities.
Transactions with SPEs take a number See Risk Management section Credit Market Exposures.
of forms, including: Tier 1 capital A measure of a bank's financial strength defined by the FSA.
The provision of financing to fund asset purchases, or commitments It captures Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, but is to provide finance for future purchases.
subject to a deduction in respect of material holdings in financial companies.
Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with a specified Tier 1 capital ratio The ratio expresses Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk exposure.
The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities which may be drawn upon Tier 2 capital Defined by the FSA.
Broadly, it includes qualifying subordinated if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties.
debt and other Tier 2 securities in issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised available for sale equity gains and revaluation Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs.
It is subject to deductions relating to the excess of expected loss Structural hedge An interest rate hedge which functions to reduce the over regulatory impairment allowance, securitisation positions and material impact of the volatility of short-term interest rate movements on positions holdings in financial companies.
that exist within the balance sheet that carry interest rates that do not Top-line income Income before own credit gains losses and credit market reprice with market rates.
See also equity structural hedge and product write-downs.
Total shareholder return TSR Defined as the value created for shareholders Structured Investment Vehicles SIVs SPEs Special Purpose Entities through share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments.
which invest in diversified portfolios of interest earning assets to take advantage of the spread differentials between the assets in the SIV and the Value at Risk VaR An estimate of the potential loss which might arise from funding cost.
market movements under normal market conditions, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence Structural liquidity The liquidity available from current positions principally level.
unpledged marketable assets and holdings of term liabilities with long remaining lives.
Whole loans A mortgage loan sold in its entirety when the buyer assumes the entire loan along with its rights and responsibilities.
A whole loan is Structured finance notes A structured note is an investment tool differentiated from investments in which the buyer becomes part owner of a which pays a return linked to the value or level of a specified asset or index pool of mortgages.
and sometimes offers capital protection if the value declines.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, interest rates, funds, commodities and Write-Down After an advance has been identified as impaired and is foreign currency.
subject to an impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write-downs will occur when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 343 Notes 344 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes Report Cover: Produced using 50% recycled fibre and pulp bleached using Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Report Text: Produced from 100% fide-inked post consumer waste.
The printer and both mills are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Barclays Bank PLC 2010 Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP Registered in England.
