328 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Shareholder information Dividends on the ordinary shares of Barclays PLC Barclays PLC has paid dividends on its ordinary shares every year since its incorporation in 1896.
As announced on 10th November 2009, the Board resumed dividend payments with an interim cash dividend of 1p per ordinary share paid on 11th December 2009.
A final cash dividend for the full-year ended 31st December 2009 of 1.5p per ordinary share was announced on 16th February 2010 for payment on 19th March 2010.
The dividends declared for each of the last five years were: Pence per 25p ordinary share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Interim 1.00 11.50 11.50 10.50 9.20 Final 1.50 22.50 20.50 17.40 Total 2.50 11.50 34.00 31.00 26.60 US Dollars per 25p ordinary share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Interim 0.02 0.20 0.23 0.20 0.16 Final 0.02 0.45 0.41 0.31 Total 0.04 0.20 0.68 0.61 0.47 The gross dividends applicable to an American Depositary Share ADS representing four ordinary shares, before deduction of withholding tax, are as follows: US Dollars per American Depositary Share 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Interim 0.07 0.82 0.93 0.80 0.65 Final 0.09 1.78 1.64 1.24 Total 0.16 0.82 2.71 2.44 1.89 For years prior to 2009, final dividends expressed in Dollars have been translated at the Noon Buying Rates in New York City for cable transfers in Pounds Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
From January 2009, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York discontinued the publication of Noon Buying Rates.
The final dividend for 2009 is expressed in Dollars translated at the closing spot rate for Pounds Sterling as determined by Bloomberg at 5pm in New York City the Closing Spot Rate on 5th March 2010 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
No representation is made that Pounds Sterling amounts have been, or could have been, or could be, converted into Dollars at these rates.
Trading market for ordinary shares of Barclays PLC The nominal capital of Barclays PLC is divided into 20,996,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, 0.4 million Sterling preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million Euro preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million Yen preference shares of 10,000 each and 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
At the close of business on 31st December 2009, 11,411,577,230 ordinary shares were outstanding.
The principal trading market for Barclays PLC ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary share listings were also obtained on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE with effect from 9th September 1986.
Trading on the NYSE is in the form of ADSs under the symbol BCS.
Each ADS represents four ordinary shares and is evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt ADR.
The ADR depositary is J P Morgan Chase Bank, N. A.
Details of trading activity are published in the stock tables of leading daily newspapers in the US.
There were 891 ADR holders and 1,595 recorded holders of ordinary shares with US addresses at 31st December 2009, whose shareholdings represented approximately 12.08% of total outstanding ordinary shares on that date.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of recorded holders in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 329 The following table shows the high and low sales price for the ordinary shares during the periods indicated, based on mid-market prices at close of business on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low sale price for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
It is emphasised that past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
330 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Shareholder information continued Articles of Association duty which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company, The Company was incorporated in England on 20th July 1896 under the unless the resolution relates to any proposal: Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by shares and was a to indemnify a Director or provide him her with a guarantee or security reregistered in 1982 as a public limited company under the Companies Acts in respect of money lent by him her to, or any obligation incurred by 1948 to 1980.
The Company is registered under company number 48839. him her or any other person for the benefit of or at the request of, The Company was reregistered as Barclays PLC on 1st January 1985. the Company or any other member of the Group : The objects of the Company are set out in full in clause 4 of its b to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any other member of the Group Memorandum of Association which provides, among other things, that the Companys objects are to carry on business as an investment and holding for which the Director has personally assumed responsibility: c to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors: company and the business of banking in all its aspects.
The Memorandum of Association is treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of d involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the Company Association as of 1st October 2009 by virtue of the Companies Act 2006. pursuant to an offer to existing holders of securities or to the public: e that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company The Company may, by Special Resolution, amend its Articles of Association.
or any of its subsidiaries : The Company is proposing to adopt new Articles of Association at its Annual f concerning any other company in which the Director is interested as an General Meeting AGM in 2010, to update its Articles of Association following officer or creditor or shareholder but, broadly, only if he she together implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006. with his her connected persons is directly or indirectly interested in less A summary of the proposed changes may be found in the Notice of Meeting than 1% of either any class of the issued equity share capital or of the that accompanies this report.
voting rights of that company: and The following is a summary of the current Articles of Association.
g concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of employees of the Company or any other member of the Group under which the Director Directors benefits or stands to benefit in a similar manner to the employees i The minimum number of Directors excluding alternate Directors is five.
concerned and which does not give the Director any advantage which There is no maximum limit.
There is no age limit for Directors.
the employees to whom the arrangement relates would not receive.
ii Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to x A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution remuneration for extra services including service on board committees which concerns his her own employment or appointment to any office of under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a rate determined the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
by the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all Directors shall not exceed 1,000,000 per annum or such higher amount as may be approved xi Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in subparagraphs ix and x may be relaxed or suspended by an ordinary by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Each Director is entitled to reimbursement for all travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred resolution of the members of the Company or any applicable governmental or other regulatory body.
by him her in or about the performance of his her duties.
iii No Director may act either himself herself or through his her firm xii A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having a as an auditor of the Company.
A Director may hold any other office of the nominal value of at least 500, which currently equates to 2,000 Ordinary Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such interest by any applicable law or regulation or any applicable governmental or other iv At each AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors rounded regulatory body.
A Director may act before acquiring those shares but down are required to retire from office by rotation and may offer themselves must acquire the qualification shares within two months from his her for re-election.
The Directors so retiring are those who have been longest in appointment.
Where a Director is unable to acquire the requisite number office and in the case of equality of service length are selected by lot.
Other of shares within that time owing to law, regulation or requirement of any than a retiring Director, no person shall unless recommended by the Board governmental or other relevant authority, he she must acquire the shares be eligible for election unless a member notifies the Company Secretary in as soon as reasonably practicable once the restriction s end.
advance of his her intention to propose a person for election.
xiii The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to borrow v The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property and uncalled capital vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any Director so appointed holds office until and to issue debentures and other securities.
the next AGM, when he she may offer himself herself for re-election.
Classes of share He she is not taken into account in determining the number of Directors retiring by rotation.
The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue.
However, the Company has authorised but unissued pr eference shares of 100, $100, $0.25, 100 and vi The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or 10,000 each together, the Preference Shares which may pursuant to a employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at the AGM be vii A Director may appoint either another Director or some other person issued by the Board from time to time in one or more series with such rights approved by the Board to act as his her alternate with power to attend Board and subject to such restrictions and limitations as the Board may determine.
meetings and generally to exercise the functions of the appointing Director The Company also has authorised but unissued staff shares of 1 each.
in his her absence other than the power to appoint an alternate.
The Articles of Association contain provisions to the following effect: viii The Board may authorise any matter in relation to which a Director has, i Dividends or can have, a direct interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with, the Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the Companys interests.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being Company in General Meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary Shares considered will be able to authorise the relevant matter and they may impose by ordinary resolution, but such dividend may not exceed the amount limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Board may also pay interim or final dividends if it appears they are justified by the Companys financial position.
ix A Director may hold positions with or be interested in other companies and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company and the FSAs Each Preference Share confers the right to a non-cumulative preferential requirements, may contract with the Company or any other company in dividend Preference Dividend payable in such currency at such rates which the Company is interested.
A Director may not vote or count towards whether fixed or calculated by reference to or in accordance with a specified the quorum on any resolution concerning any proposal in which he she or procedure or mechanism, on such dates and on such other terms as may any person connected with him her has a material interest other than by be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof.
virtue of his her interest in securities of the Company or if he she has a www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 331 The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividend in priority to iii Transfers the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the Company Ordinary Shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated form.
ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
Certificated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the Transfers of uncertificated Ordinary Shares shall be made in accordance with Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment in full the applicable regulations.
The Board may make any arrangements to regulate or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable on or in the and evidence the transfer of Ordinary Shares as they consider fit in accordance case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, before the relevant with applicable legislation and the rules of the FSA.
dividend payment date on any class of shares in the Company ranking pari passu with or in priority to the relevant series of Preference Shares as regards Registration of Ordinary Shares may be suspended, subject to applicable participation in the profits of the Company.
legislation, for such periods as the Board may determine but for not more than 30 days in any calendar year.
If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company available for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of Preference The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary Shares, Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent of the or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by the FSA.
The distributable profits on a pro rata basis.
Board may also decline to register an instrument of transfer of certificated Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and deposited at the prescribed Notwithstanding the above, the Board may, at its absolute discretion, place and accompanied by the share certificate s and such other evidence determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be payable as reasonably required by the Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
respect of one class of shares only, and it is in favour of not more than four If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, or transferees except in the case of executors or trustees of a member.
is only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of Preference Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or be in Shares will not have a claim in respect of such nonpayment.
If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply.
The by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Shares in registered form shall dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither the be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the Board Company nor Barclays Bank may a pay a dividend on, or b redeem, and executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Companys registrar shall purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective ordinary register such transfers of Preference Shares in registered form by making the shares, other preference shares or other share capital ranking equal or junior appropriate entries in the register of Preference Shares.
to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the earlier of such time as the Company next pays in full a dividend on the relevant series of Preference iv Return of Capital and Liquidation Shares or the date on which all of the relevant series of Preference Shares are In the event of any return of capital by reduction of capital or on liquidation, the redeemed.
holders o f Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive such capital in proportion to the amounts paid up or credited as paid up on the shares of each class.
All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be invested or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Company until Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any return claimed.
If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it becoming payable, of capital by reduction of capital other than, unless otherwise provided by it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the Company of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, the right to receive out of the The Board may although it currently does not, with the approval of an surplus assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the ordinary resolution of the Company, offer shareholders the right to choose members and in priority to the holders of the Ordinary Shares and any other to receive an allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of shares in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of Preference cash in respect of all or part of any dividend.
Shares and pari passu with any other class of Preference Shares, repayment ii Voting of the amount paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value Every member who is present in person or by proxy, or represented at any of the Preference Share together with any premium which was paid or general meeting of the Company and who is entitled to vote has one vote treated as paid when the Preference Share was issued in addition to an on a show of hands.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
has one vote for every share held.
Any joint holder may vote in respect of v Redemption and Purchase jointly owned shares, but the vote of the senior holder as determined by Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other shareholders, order in the share register shall take precedence.
If any sum payable any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option of the Company remains unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member is not or the holder of such share, redeemable.
While the Company currently has entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting no redeemable shares in issue, any series of Preference Shares issued in the of the Company unless the Board otherwise determine.
future will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of on a date not less than five years after the date on which such series of the Companys Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section 793 Preference Shares was first issued.
The Company may purchase its own of the Companies Act 2006 and does not supply the Company with the shares subject to the provisions of applicable legislation, the Articles and the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, approval of any class of convertible shares in issue by special resolution or may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any written consent of 75% of such class.
vi Calls on capital The Board may further direct that if the shares of the defaulting member The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any monies represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of the relevant class, that unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made remains liable dividends or other monies payable on those shares shall be retained by the even if the shares in respect of which the call is made have been transferred.
Company until the direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of those Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid amount called at a rate determined shares shall be registered other than certain specified approved transfers.
by the Board of not more than 20%.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received the information requested, or when the Company is notified that an approved transfer to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
332 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Shareholder information continued If a member fails to pay any call in full following notice from the Board In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares, such shares the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
including any dividends declared but not paid may be forfeited by a A member who having no registered address within the UK has not supplied resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the Company.
an address in the UK at which documents or information may be sent is not Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts payable by entitled to have documents or information sent to him her.
him her which may continue to accrue interest.
Alteration of share capital The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company for The Company may, by way of ordinary resolution: all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and liabilities of a member to the Company.
If any monies which are the subject of the increase its share capital by a sum to be divided into shares of an amount lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board demanding payment, the prescribed by the resolution: Company may sell such shares.
consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger vii Variation of Rights nominal amount: The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the sanction subject to legislation, sub-divide all or part of its shares into shares of of special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the a smaller nominal amount and may decide by that resolution that the shares of that class.
resulting shares have preference or other advantage or restrictions: and The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights cancel any shares which, at the date of the resolution, have not been attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further shares subscribed or agreed to have been subscribed for and diminish the ranking equally with them.
amount of its share capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled.
Annual and other general meetings The Company may also, by special resolution, reduce its share capital The Company is required to hold an AGM in addition to such other general or capital redemption reserve or any share premium account or other meetings as the Directors think fit.
The type of the meeting will be specified undistributable reserve in any manner authorised by legislation.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the AGM must be held within six months of the financial year end.
A general meeting The Company may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation of may be convened by the Board on requisition in accordance with the the Board capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the credit of applicable legislation.
a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that amounts from the share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any profits not In the case of an AGM, a minimum of 21 clear days notice is required.
The available for distribution should be applied only in paying up unissued shares notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and the hour issued to members and no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be transacted.
debentures of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution shall specify the capital of the Company.
intention to propose the resolution as such.
The accidental failure to give notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt of such notice will not Indemnity invalidate the proceedings at such meeting.
Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or other officer of the Company other than any person engaged by the company as Subject as noted above, all shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at auditor shall be indemnified by the Company against any liability in relation general meetings.
The Articles do, however, provide that arrangements may to the Company, other than broadly any liability to the Company or a be made for simultaneous attendance at a general meeting at a place other member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
than that specified in the notice of meeting, in which case shareholders may be excluded from the specified place.
Officers of the Group Date of appointment as officer Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend or vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 Preference Shares.
Peter Estlin Group Financial Controller 2008 Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary, Barclays Bank PLC 2002 Limitations on foreign shareholders Mark Harding Group General Counsel 2003 There are no restrictions imposed by the Companys Memorandum or Antony Jenkins Chief Executive of Articles of Association or subject to the effect of any economic sanctions Global Retail Banking 2009 that may be in force from time to time by current UK laws which relate only Tom Kalaris Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth 2009 to non-residents of the UK and which limit the rights of such non-residents Robert Le Blanc Group Risk Officer 2004 to hold or when entitled to do so vote the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Jerry del Missier President of Barclays Capital and Notices Co-Chief Executive of A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy form, Corporate and Investment Banking 2009 electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by another means Maria Ramos Group Chief Executive, Absa 2009 agreed with the recipient.
A document or information may only be sent in Rich Ricci Co-Chief Executive of electronic form to a person who has agreed to receive it in that form or, in Corporate and Investment Banking 2009 the case of a company, who has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant Cathy Turner Group Human Resources Director 2009 to applicable legislation.
A document or information may only be sent by being made available on a website if the recipient has agreed to receive it in that form or has been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation, and has not revoked that agreement.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 333 Taxation Taxation of shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan The following is a summary of the principal tax consequences for holders Where a shareholder elects to purchase shares using their cash dividend, of Ordinary Shares of Barclays PLC, Preference Shares of Barclays Bank PLC the individual will be liable for income tax on dividends reinvested in the the Bank, or ADSs representing such Ordinary Shares or Preference Shares, Dividend Reinvestment Plan on the same basis as if they had received the and who are citizens or residents of the UK or US, or otherwise who are cash and arranged the investment themselves.
They should accordingly subject to UK tax or US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect include the dividend received in their annual tax return in the normal way.
of such securities, that own the shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax The tax consequences for a UK individual are the same as described in purposes.
It is not, however, a comprehensive analysis of all the potential Taxation of dividends above.
tax consequences for such holders, and it does not discuss the tax Taxation of capital gains consequences of members of special classes of holders subject to special Where shares are disposed of by open market sale, a capital gain may result rules or holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of Barclays if the disposal proceeds exceed the sum of the base cost of the shares voting stock.
Investors are advised to consult their tax advisers regarding sold and any other allowable deductions such as share dealing costs and the tax implications of their particular holdings, including the consequences indexation relief up to 5th April 1998.
To arrive at the total base cost of any under applicable state and local law, and in particular whether they are Barclays PLC shares held, the amount subscribed for rights taken up in 1985 eligible for the benefits of the Treaty, as defined below.
and 1988 must be added to the cost of all other shares held.
For this purpose, A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is, for US federal current legislation permits the market valuation at 31st March 1982 to be income tax purposes, i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US domestic substituted for the original cost of shares purchased before that date.
corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US federal income The calculations required to compute chargeable capital gains may be tax regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US court can exercise primary complex.
Capital gains may also arise from the gifting of shares to connected supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are parties such as relatives although not spouses or civil partners and family authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
Shareholders are advised to consult their personal financial adviser holds the shares or ADSs, the United States federal income tax treatment if further information regarding a possible tax liability in respect of their of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax holdings of Barclays PLC shares is required.
A partner in a partnership holding the shares or ADSs should consult its tax adviser with regard to the United States Stamp duty federal income tax treatment of an investment in the shares or ADSs.
Stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% is normally payable on the purchase price of shares acquired.
Unless otherwise noted, the statements of tax laws set out below are based on the tax laws of the UK in force as at 5th March 2010 and are subject to Inheritance tax any subsequent changes in UK law, in particular any announcements made An individual may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer of ordinary in the Chancellors expected UK Budget in March 2010. shares or preference shares.
Where an individual is liable, inheritance tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of his or her estate is reduced This section is also based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other gratuitous transaction made its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and by them or treated as made by them.
court decisions the Code, and on the Double Taxation Convention between the UK and the US as entered into force in March 2003 the Treaty, all of Taxation of US holders which are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Taxation of dividends Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder is subject to US federal This section is based in part upon the representations of the ADR Depositary income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by Barclays PLC and the assumption that each obligation of the Deposit Agreement and any or Barclays Bank PLC, as applicable, out of its current or accumulated related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
For purposes of the Treaty, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention between the Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning United Kingdom and the United States, and the Code, the holders of ADRs before 1st January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be evidencing ADSs will be treated as owners of the underlying ordinary shares taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the or preference shares, as the case may be.
Generally, exchanges of shares holder has a holding period of the shares or ADSs of more than 60 days for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date or to UK capital gains tax.
or, in the case of preference shares or ADSs relating thereto, if the dividend is attributable to a period or periods aggregating over 366 days, provided Taxation of UK holders that the holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 90 days during the Taxation of dividends 181-day period beginning 90 days before the ex-dividend date and meets In accordance with UK law, Barclays pays dividends on ordinary shares and certain other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Barclays, with preference shares without any deduction or withholding tax in respect of respect to the ordinary or preference shares or ADSs will generally be any taxes imposed by the UK government or any UK taxing authority.
If the shareholder is a UK resident individual liable to income tax only at the A US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
The US holder will basic rate, then there will be no further tax liability in respect of the dividend include in gross income for US federal income tax purposes the amount received.
If, however, the individual shareholder is subject to income tax of the dividend actually received.
Dividends must be included in income at the higher highest rates currently 40% 50%, there will be a further when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of liability to tax.
Higher highest rate taxpayers are taxable on dividend income ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be eligible at a special rate currently 32.5% 42.5% against which can be offset a tax for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in credit of one-ninth of the cash dividend received.
Tax credits are not respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
For foreign tax repayable to shareholders with no tax liability.
credit purposes, dividends will generally be income from sources outside the 334 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Shareholder information continued United States and will, depending on a US holders circumstances, be either would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, for a US holder, such passive or general income for purposes of computing the foreign tax gain and certain excess distributions would be treated as having been credit allowable to a US holder.
realised rateably over the holding period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the The amount of the dividend distribution includable in income will be the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax US Dollar value of the Pound Sterling payments made, determined at the attributable to each such year.
With certain exceptions, a US holders shares spot Pound Sterling US Dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is or ADSs will be treated as stock in a PFIC if Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC includable in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted was a PFIC at any time during such holders holding period in their shares or into US Dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange ADSs.
Dividends that a US holder receives will not be eligible for the special fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Barclays PLC or Barclays includable in income to the date the payment is converted into US Dollars Bank PLC are treated as a PFIC with respect to such US holder either in the will be treated as ordinary income or loss and, for foreign tax credit limitation taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead purposes, from sources within the US and will not be eligible for the special will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
Stamp duty Distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits, as No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer of an ADS, provided that the determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a return sep arate instrument of transfer is not executed in, and remains at all times of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the shares or ADSs and outside, the UK.
Estate and gift tax Taxation of capital gains Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention between the United Kingdom and Subject to PFIC rules discussed below, generally, US holders will not be subject the United States, a US holder generally is not subject to UK inheritance tax.
to UK tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, preference shares or ADSs.
Generally, a US holder will recognise capital gain or loss for United States federal income Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time amount realised and a US holders tax basis, determined in US Dollars, in its to time, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations which would shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a noncorporate US holder that is recognised affect the transfer of capital or remittance of dividends, interest and other in taxable years beginning before 1st January 2011 is generally taxed at a payments to holders of Barclays securities who are not residents of the UK.
maximum rate of 15% where the holder has a holding period of greater There are also no restrictions under the Articles of Association of either than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC, or subject to the effect of any such within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
economic sanctions under current UK laws, which relate only to nonresidents of the UK, and which limit the right of such non-residents to hold Taxation of premium on redemption or purchase of shares Barclays securities or, when entitled to vote, to do so.
No refund of tax will be available under the Treaty in respect of any premium paid on a redemption of preference shares by Barclays Bank PLC or on a purchase by Barclays PLC of its own shares.
For US tax purposes, redemption Documents on display premium generally will be treated as an additional amount realised in the It is possible to read and copy documents that have been filed by calculation of gain or loss.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC with the US Securities and Exchange Commission at the US Securities and Exchange Commissions office of Taxation of passive foreign investment companies PFICs Investor Education and Advocacy located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC believe that their respective shares DC 20549.
Please call the US Securities and Exchange Commission at and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is their copy charges.
Filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If Barclays PLC or are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services, Barclays Bank PLC were to be treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to and from the website maintained by the US Securities and Exchange be taxed annually on a mark to market basis with respect to the shares or Commission at www.
ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of their shares or ADSs
