Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Beazley plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have engaged us to audit certain information in the Report of the Remuneration Committee the information that has been audited is highlighted within the report.
The directors have decided to prepare the report in addition to that required to be prepared as if the Company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to the UK Companies Act 2006, The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
410 and as if the Company were a continuation of the previous holding company Beazley Group plc.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report, on terms that have been agreed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report and reporting on corporate governance, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 72.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited has been properly prepared as if the Company were required to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 SI 2008 No.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the annual statement and financial review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2009: the financial statements have been properly prepared having regard to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report which we were engaged to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Companies Act 2006 The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as if those requirements were to apply to the company: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square, London EC4Y 8BB 9 February 2010 Beazley Annual Report 2009 73
