Operational update Beazleys entrepreneurial culture has always required underwriters to think, not just like underwriters, but more broadly like capable businessmen and women.
David Marock Chief operating officer Beazley has grown its premiums by more than 20% per Early in 2009 we took a hard look at how, as a company, annum over the past decade.
Our ability to grow we manage for performance.
Our goals were to ensure profitably in future will depend as it always has on that Beazley was recognised as: the quality of people we can attract to the company and An excellent employer that top quality people wish the opportunities we can offer them.
It will also depend to join: on the infrastructure that we put in place to ensure that, A true meritocracy that supports, rewards, advances for our clients and brokers, bigger truly means better.
and retains top performers: In the marketplace for talent, the Beazley brand remains Having a highly motivated, loyal and productive staff: strong.
Since the end of 2003, the number of London and based underwriting and claims staff has increased by Possessing a deeply-ingrained, performance-driven more than 80%, from 57 to 104.
staff in particular has grown significantly from 13 to 33 We looked at all areas of the business, including our over this period, as we see high quality claims service core values, compensation, career opportunities within as an important differentiator for Beazley.
In the US, the group, and training and development.
Beazleys where our physical presence is more recent, we have entrepreneurial culture has always required underwriters nevertheless had great success in attracting exceptional to think, not just like underwriters, but more broadly like individuals: our US underwriting and claims staff now capable businessmen and women.
As our business has numbers 121. grown in complexity, this has presented a growing Our non-hierarchical structure and entrepreneurial challenge and we have reviewed our approach to culture enable us to attract high calibre individuals who training to broaden the skills of our underwriters and are passionate about underwriting.
In many cases, they other key employees.
have been willing to move away from senior managerial For Beazley, attracting and retaining the best employees positions at other companies to focus at Beazley on is also about giving our people the tools to accomplish what they do best and enjoy most.
their work in a manner that satisfies our clients and Finding and recruiting talent is a key priority that brokers.
While our talented employees are the most receives close and continuous attention from our most critical source of our success, their remuneration is also senior employees.
Under the leadership of Penny Malik, our biggest expense.
So the more we can use technology our talent management team continually maps the intelligently to enhance their efficiency, the more talent in the markets we are interested in and we use competitive we become.
This is the responsibility our network of contacts and our internal team to of Philippe Mazas and his IT team.
approach the candidates we have identified.
Retaining the right people is, of course, equally important and our voluntary turnover rate across the company in 2009 of 3.7% is encouraging.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements We made important progress in this area in 2009, completing two major technology projects that will have wide ranging benefits for our clients and brokers, and will enhance the efficiency of our employees.
We launched the first phase of Beazley Pro, a new system for underwriting and policy administration for our specialty lines business in the US.
Beazley Pro will help our US underwriters manage their current workload more efficiently.
The month after Beazley Pro went live, we completed implementation of Guidewire ClaimCenter as the groups new claims handling system.
The web-based system will help ensure that superior claims service remains a key differentiator for Beazley as the company continues to grow, both at Lloyds and internationally.
Finally, under the direction of Munira Hirji, who leads our commercial management team, we have made good progress in sourcing well located new office space for our growing staff in New York and San Francisco.
We were able to take full advantage of property market conditions to negotiate leases on very attractive terms.
