Glossary Admitted carrier Deferred acquisition costs DAC An insurance company licensed by a particular US state, monitored by Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance policies the state for financial stability, covered by the states guaranty fund, and e. g. brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are subject to the states regulations for licensed insurance companies.
capitalised and amortised over the term of the contracts.
Aggregates aggregations Earnings per share EPS Basic Diluted Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result from Ratio, in pence, calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
tax by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted earnings Aggregate excess of loss per share the number of shares and profit or loss for the year is The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares like share options an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess of a specified granted to employees.
Excess per risk reinsurance A. M. Best A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information agency limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the amount of loss whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing in excess of a specified retention with respect of each risk involved in the financial strength of insurance related organisations, following a each loss.
rigorous quantitative and qualitative analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating performance and business profile.
Beazley Expense ratio Group plc obtained an A rating, while Beazley Insurance Company, Ratio, in percent, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance Inc. received a rating of A. contracts and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
Binding authority Facultative reinsurance A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a coverholder A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated under which the coverholder is authorised to enter into contracts of contract as opposed to one that is ceded under a reinsurance treaty.
insurance for the account of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms and conditions.
Gross premiums written Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes or duties levied Capacity on the premium, including any brokerage and commission deducted This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted by a by intermediaries.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the marketplace in general.
Hard market An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, with restrictive Catastrophe reinsurance terms and conditions offered by insurers.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the amount of loss in excess Horizontal limits of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
resulting from a catastrophic event or series of events.
Incurred but not reported IBNR Claims These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an insured Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.
event although no claims have been reported so far.
Claims ratio International accounting standards IAS International financial Ratio, in percent, of net insurance claims to net earned premiums.
reporting standards IFRS Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of achieving Combined ratio internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the Ratio, in percent, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for standards adopted by the IASB have been referred to as International acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses to net Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Until existing standards are earned premiums.
This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the renamed, they continue to be referred to as International Accounting claims ratio.
Coverholder managing general agent International accounting standards board IASB A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a An international panel of accounting experts responsible for managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to enter into developing IAS IFRS.
contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Lead underwriter Retrocessional reinsurance The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting the terms The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally has primary responsibility for Risk handling any claims arising under such a contract.
This term may variously refer to: a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: Line b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is accepted by c an insured peril.
an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Sidecar syndicate Managing agent Syndicate designed to provide additional capacity to another A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the underwriting of syndicate.
They operate by purchasing a portion or all of a group of a syndicate.
insurance policies, typically catastrophe exposures.
They have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle Managing general agent MGA to add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf of an insurer.
potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
Medium tail Short tail A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years after A type of insurance where claims are usually made during the term of the period of insurance has expired.
the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short tail business.
Net assets per share Ratio, in pence calculated by dividing the net assets total equity by Soft market the number of shares issued.
An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Net premiums written Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less outward Stamp capacity reinsurance premiums written.
The volume of business measured in gross written premiums net of acquisition costs underwritten by the group through its managed Provision for outstanding claims syndicates at Lloyds of London.
Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the balance sheet date but have either not yet been reported or not yet been fully Surplus lines insurer settled.
An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the US.
Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the US Rate except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured or limit of indemnity.
Total shareholder return The increase in the share price plus the value of any dividends paid Reinsurance to close RITC and proposed during the year.
A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of Treaty reinsurance account and any year of account closed into that year plus the right A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer and to buy any income due to the closing year of account into an open to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
year of account in return for a premium.
Unearned premiums reserve Retention limits The portion of premium income in the business year that is Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures by the attributable to periods after the balance sheet date is accounted group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
Return on equity ROE Ratio, in percent calculated by dividing the consolidated profit after tax by the average total equity.
Designed and produced by The Team www.
co. uk Beazley Annual Report 2009 121 122 www.
com Timeline Our business has diversi ed steadily over time and we have achieved a pro t every year since inception in 1986.
86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 9.1m 13.5m 13.9m 14.7m 16.5m 24.0m 33.2m 67.6m 70.3m 85.6m 79.6m 78.3m 101.7m 134.0m 168.5m 299.7m 450.4m 700.4m 751.3m 816.0m 957.6m 959.8m 1,072.9m 1,351.4m Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross Managed gross premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums premiums Lloyds Active UK windstorms European storms Lloyds Active Commercial Total Beazley Corporate capital Lloyds Beazley Recall, Marine Management Flotation raised members: US $3.5bn US $10bn members: Property syndicates introduced to Reconstruction Dedicated Contingency account buyout of 150m to set up 350.2m 402.3m 558.0m 745.1m 780.5m 875.7m 1,111.5m 28,242 26,539 account capacity Lloyds and Renewal established and Political Risk started minority Beazley Group plc Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Group share Capacity: Capacity: started introduced accounts started shareholders 8,291m 11,063m UK Bishopsgate US Northridge APUA, based European storms Raised 150m D&O Healthcare, Engineering Beazley MGA Beazley takes BICI begins Political Risk Syndicates: 370 Syndicates: 354 US hurricane explosion earthquake Lloyds Active in Hong Kong, US $12bn EPL and UK PI through rights Energy, Cargo and started in US full ownership writing US & Contingency Andrew US $750bn US $12.5bn members: forms a strategic accounts started issue to develop and Specie Construction of APUA and admitted Group formed as our business at Begin trading at US $17bn 13,062 partnership with accounts started account Beazley acquires renames it mid-market new division Lloyds and in the old 1958 Capacity: Beazley Furlonge Lloyds Active started Omaha P&C Beazley Limited commercial the US.
Lloyds building 9,994m members: SARS outbreak and renames property Acquisition of Acquisition in 1985 Syndicates: 167 Lloyds 3,746 in Asia it Beazley Expansion of Momentum of First State Reconstruction Capacity: US $3.5bn Insurance Construction & US hurricane Ike Underwriting Management Beazley Furlonge and Renewal 11,263m Company, Inc. Engineering team US $20bn Management.
Group, Inc. a and Hiscox concluded Syndicates: 122 BICI into Singapore Accident & Life US underwriting established manager focusing formed as a and takes US 9 11 terrorist on surplus lines US hurricane Beazley opens new division over managing attack commercial Katrina new of ce in property business Syndicate 623 US $20.3bn US $56.5bn Paris Beazley plc Specialty lines becomes the new Lloyds Active holding company and Treaty members: for the group, accounts started 2,211 incorporated in Capacity: Jersey and tax resident in Ireland 14,788m Syndicates: 65 Marine account started in 1999 Commercial Property Accident & Life formed account started as a new division APUA, based in in 1992 Hong Kong, forms a In 1986 Beazley Furlonge strategic partnership and Hiscox established with Beazley Furlonge and takes over managing This year we established in 1997 Syndicate 623 a local underwriting presence in the US Timeline Our business has diversi ed steadily over time and we have achieved a pro t every year since inception in 1986.
Group, Inc. a and Hiscox concluded Syndicates: 122 BICI into Singapore Accident & Life US underwriting established manager focusing formed as a and takes US 9 11 terrorist on surplus lines US hurricane Beazley opens new division over managing attack commercial Katrina new of ce in property business Syndicate 623 US $20.3bn US $56.5bn Paris Beazley plc Specialty lines becomes the new Lloyds Active holding company and Treaty members: for the group, accounts started 2,211 incorporated in Capacity: Jersey and tax resident in Ireland 14,788m Syndicates: 65 Marine account started in 1999 Commercial Property Accident & Life formed account started as a new division APUA, based in in 1992 Hong Kong, forms a In 1986 Beazley Furlonge strategic partnership and Hiscox established with Beazley Furlonge and takes over managing This year we established in 1997 Syndicate 623 a local underwriting presence in the US Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 86 09 On track In 2009 we took important steps to equip our underwriters to capture pro table market opportunities: Raised 150 million to develop our business at Lloyds and in the US Acquired First State Management Group, Beazley plc increasing our US commercial property 2 Northwood Avenue presence Northwood Park Santry Demesne, Santry Redomiciled the group to Ireland Dublin 9 Ireland Enhanced client and broker service through Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 targeted technology investments Registered Number: 102680 Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 Beazley plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 86 09 On track In 2009 we took important steps to equip our underwriters to capture pro table market opportunities: Raised 150 million to develop our business at Lloyds and in the US Acquired First State Management Group, Beazley plc increasing our US commercial property 2 Northwood Avenue presence Northwood Park Santry Demesne, Santry Redomiciled the group to Ireland Dublin 9 Ireland Enhanced client and broker service through Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 targeted technology investments Registered Number: 102680
