Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies Beazley plc is a company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Ireland.
The consolidated financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprise the parent company and its subsidiaries and the groups interest in associates.
Both the financial statements of the parent company, Beazley plc, and the consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The following accounting policies apply to both the group and parent company unless otherwise indicated.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of adopted IFRSs in issue that are effective or available for early adoption at 31 December 2009.
Based on these adopted IFRSs and interpretations, the directors have applied the accounting policies, as set out below.
The following new and amended standards have been adopted by the group during the period IFRS 7 Financial instruments Disclosures amendment effective 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of fair value measurement hierarchy.
As the change in accounting policy only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact on earnings per share.
Presentation of financial statements effective 1 January 2009.
The revised standard requires the group to present in the consolidated statement of changes in equity all owner changes in equity, whereas all non-owner changes in equity are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Comparative information has been re-presented so that it also is in conformity with the revised standard.
As the change in accounting policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings per share.
The following new standards and interpretations released by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB have not been early adopted but are expected to be of relevance to future financial years.
None of these are expected to have any significant impact on the future consolidated financial statements of the group: IFRS 5 amended Non-current Assets Held for Sale an Discontinued Operations IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet endorsed IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures IAS 27 amended Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issue IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2008 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Groups operations: The definition of a business has been broadened, which may result in more acquisitions being treated as business combinations.
Contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred.
Any pre-existing interest in an acquiree will be measured at fair value, with the related gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Any non-controlling minority interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquiree, on a  basis.
Revised IFRS 3, which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements, will be applied prospectively and therefore there will be no impact on prior periods in the Groups 2010 consolidated financial statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
New holding company Beazley plc was incorporated in Jersey on 20 February 2009 under the Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares and with registered number 102680.
With effect from 9 June 2009, under a scheme of arrangement involving a share exchange with the members of Beazley Group plc, the company became the new holding company of the Beazley group of companies.
Throughout the period from incorporation to 9 June 2009 Beazley plc was a shell company with no material revenues and assets and did not constitute a business as defined by IFRS 3 Business combinations.
Consequently, due to the relative values of both companies, the shareholders of Beazley Group plc immediately before the share exchange acquired, in effect, 100 per cent of the share capital of Beazley plc on completion of the transaction.
In order to appropriately reflect the substance of the transaction outlined above, the new holding company has been accounted for using the reverse acquisition principles outlined in IFRS 3.
Consequently, Beazley Group plc is deemed to be the acquirer for accounting purposes and the legal parent company, Beazley plc is treated as a subsidiary whose identifiable assets and liabilities are incorporated into the group at fair value.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The Groups consolidated financial statements are issued in the name of the legal parent company, Beazley plc.
However, as a consequence of applying reverse acquisition accounting, the results for the year period ended 31 December 2009 represent a continuation of the consolidated activities of the Beazley group of companies.
The consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009 reflects the issued share capital and reserves of Beazley plc.
The comparative figures are those of Beazley Group plc as originally reported for the relevant period.
The comparative figures for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 are extracted from the statutory accounts of Beazley Group plc for that financial year.
Those accounts have been reported on by the companys auditors and delivered to the registrar of companies.
The report of the auditors was i unqualified, ii did not include a reference to any matters to which the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their report, and iii did not contain a statement under section 237 2 of 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of presentation The consolidated financial statements are prepared using the historical cost convention except that investments and derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
All amounts presented are stated in sterling and millions, unless noted otherwise.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in notes 2 and 23 on risk management, insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets.
Consolidation a Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings, which are those entities in which the group, directly or indirectly, has the power to exercise control over financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities, have been consolidated.
They are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control ceases.
The group has used the purchase method of accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is measured as the fair value of assets given, shares issued or liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Financial investments made by the parent company in group undertakings are stated at cost and are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Certain group subsidiaries underwrite as corporate members of Lloyds on syndicates managed by Beazley Furlonge Limited.
In view of the several liability of underwriting members at Lloyds for the transactions of syndicates in which they participate, only attributable shares of transactions, assets and liabilities of those syndicates have been included in the financial statements.
b Associates Associates are those entities in which the group has power to exert significant influence but which it does not control.
Significant influence is generally presumed if the group has between 20% and 50% of voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, the groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements in the associates net assets are adjusted against the cost of the investment.
When the groups share of losses equals or exceeds the carrying amount of the associate, the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition for the losses is discontinued except to the extent that the group has incurred obligations in respect of the associate.
Equity accounting is discontinued when the group no longer has significant influence over the investment.
c Intercompany balances and transactions All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains or losses on transactions between group companies have been eliminated.
Transactions and balances between the group and associates are not eliminated.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of the parent and the subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the relevant entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the groups presentation currency.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using average exchange rates applicable to this period and which the group considers to be a reasonable approximation of the transaction rate.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from translation at the period end of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary items recorded at historical cost in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the initial transaction.
c Group companies The results and financial position of the group companies that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate ruling at the balance sheet date: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the reporting period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
The exchange differences on disposal of foreign entities are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Insurance contracts Insurance contracts including inwards reinsurance contracts are defined as those containing significant insurance risk.
Insurance risk is considered significant if, and only if, an insured event could cause an insurer to pay significant additional benefits in any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance.
Such contracts remain insurance contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or expire.
Financial guarantees provided by the parent company to subsidiaries are treated as insurance contracts under IFRS 4.
Net earned premiums a Premiums Gross premiums written represent premiums on business commencing in the financial year together with adjustments to premiums written in previous accounting periods and estimates for premiums from contracts entered into during the course of the year.
Gross premiums written are stated before deduction of brokerage, taxes, duties levied on premiums and other deductions.
b Unearned premiums A provision for unearned premiums gross of reinsurance represents that part of the gross premiums written that is estimated will be earned in the following financial periods.
It is calculated using the daily pro-rata method where the premium is apportioned over the period of risk.
Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise brokerage, premium levy and staff-related costs of the underwriters acquiring new business and renewing existing contracts.
The proportion of acquisition costs in respect of unearned premiums is deferred at the balance sheet date and recognised in later periods when the related premiums are earned.
Claims These include the cost of claims and claims handling expenses paid during the period, together with the movements in provisions for outstanding claims, claims incurred but not reported IBNR and claims handling provisions.
The provision for claims comprises amounts set aside for claims advised and IBNR.
The IBNR amount is based on estimates calculated using widely accepted actuarial techniques which are reviewed quarterly by the group actuary and annually by Beazleys independent syndicate reporting actuary.
The techniques generally use projections, based on past experience of the development of claims over time, to form a view on the likely ultimate claims to be experienced.
For more recent underwriting years, regard is given to the variations in the business portfolio accepted and the underlying terms and conditions.
Thus, the critical assumptions used when estimating provisions are that past experience is a reasonable predictor of likely future claims development and that the rating and business portfolio assumptions are a fair reflection of the likely level of ultimate claims to be incurred for the more recent years.
Liability adequacy testing At each balance sheet date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the claims liabilities net of DAC and unearned premium reserves.
In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and administration expenses as well as investment income from the assets backing such liabilities are used.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests unexpired risk provision.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Ceded reinsurance These are contracts entered into by the group with reinsurers under which the group is compensated for losses on contracts issued by the group and that meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Insurance contracts entered into by the group under which the contract holder is another insurer inwards reinsurance are included with insurance contracts.
Any benefits to which the group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as reinsurance assets.
These assets consist of balances due from reinsurers and include reinsurers share of provisions for claims.
These balances are based on calculated amounts of outstanding claims and projections for IBNR, net of estimated irrecoverable amounts having regard to the reinsurance programme in place for the class of business, the claims experience for the period and the current security rating of the reinsurer involved.
Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts and are recognised as an expense when due.
The group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment.
If there is objective evidence of impairment, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue consists of net earned premium, net investment income, profit commissions earned and managing agents fees.
Managing agents fees are recognised as the services are provided.
Profit commissions are recognised as profit is earned.
Dividends paid Dividend distribution to the shareholders of the group is recognised in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders in the groups annual general meeting.
Plant and equipment All plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Fixtures and fittings Three to ten years Computer equipment Three years These assets residual value and useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted if appropriate.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such condition exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of impairment and the difference is charged to the income statement.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite life and is annually tested for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to each cash generating unit being the groups operating segments for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill is impaired when the net present value of the forecast future cash flows is insufficient to support its carrying value.
On transition to IFRS at 1 January 2004, any goodwill previously amortised or written off was not reinstated.
b Syndicate capacity The syndicate capacity represents the cost of purchasing the groups participation in the combined syndicates.
The capacity is capitalised at cost in the balance sheet.
It has an indefinite useful life and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment.
It is annually tested for impairment by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned by Syndicate 2623 and provision is made for any impairment.
c Licences Licences have an indefinite useful life and are shown at fair value.
Licences are annually tested for impairment and provision is made for any impairment when the net present value of future cash flows is less than the carrying value.
d IT development costs Costs that are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique software products and that are anticipated to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs include external consultants fees, certain qualifying internal staff costs and other costs incurred to develop software programs.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful life three years on a straight line basis.
Other non-qualifying costs are expensed as incurred.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at such time that the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or where the financial assets have been transferred, together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the groups obligations specified in the contract expire, are discharged or cancelled.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, which is the date the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued The fair value option in IAS 39 has been used to eliminate measurement or recognition inconsistency that would result from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising gains or losses on them on different bases.
Financial assets On acquisition of a financial asset, the group is required to classify the asset into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held to maturity and available for sale.
The group does not make use of the held to maturity and available for sale classifications.
Financial assets at fair value through income statement This category has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through the income statement at inception.
Trading assets are those assets which are acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term, or which are held as part of a portfolio in which there is evidence of short-term profit taking or if it is designated so by management.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
A financial asset is designated as fair value through the income statement upon initial recognition if it is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Information about these financial assets is provided internally on a fair value basis to the groups key management.
The groups investment strategy is to invest and evaluate their performance with reference to their fair values.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction on the measurement date.
When available, the group measures the fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available and represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
If a market for a financial instrument is not active, the group establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using recent arms length transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties if available, reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analyses and option pricing models.
The chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as possible on estimates specific to the group, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Inputs to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk-return factors inherent in the financial instrument.
The group calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available observable market data.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the transaction but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
Assets and long positions are measured at a bid price: liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking price.
Where the group has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate.
Fair values reflect the credit risk of the instrument and include adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the group entity and counterparty where appropriate.
Fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties, to the extent that the Group believes a third-party market participant would take them into account in pricing a transaction.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
Net changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement exclude interest and dividend income.
Hedge funds The group participates in a number of hedge funds and related financial instruments for which there are no available quoted market prices.
The valuation of these hedge funds is based on fair value techniques as described above.
The fair value of our hedge fund portfolio is calculated by reference to the underlying net asset values NAVs of each of the individual funds.
Consideration is also given in valuing these funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the existence of side pocket provisions, and the timing of the latest available valuations.
Insurance receivables and payables Insurance receivables and payables are recognised when due.
These include amounts due to and from agents, brokers and insurance contract holders.
These are classified as loans and receivables as they are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
Insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairments.
Insurance payables are stated at amortised cost.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Statement of accounting policies continued Other receivables Other receivables principally consist of prepayments, accrued income and sundry debtors and are carried at amortised cost.
Investment income Investment income consists of dividends, interest, realised and unrealised gains and losses and foreign exchange gains and losses on financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
Interest is recognised on an accruals basis for financial assets at fair value through the income statement.
The realised gains or losses on disposal of an investment is the difference between the proceeds and the carrying value of the investment.
Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between the carrying value at the balance sheet date, and the carrying value at the previous period end or purchase value during the period.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently borrowings are stated at amortised cost and interest is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Finance costs comprise interest payable, fees paid for the arrangement of debt and letter of credit facility and commissions charged for the utilisation of letters of credit.
These costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Other payables Other payables are stated at amortised cost.
Hedge accounting and derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting fair value gains or losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques which include discounted cash flow models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as liabilities when fair value is negative.
The best evidence of fair value of a derivative at initial recognition is the transaction price.
The group designates certain derivatives as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are being used in hedging transactions are expected to be and have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
a Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for cash flow hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is discontinued and the amount recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects the income statement.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, then the hedge accounting is discontinued and the balance in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
b Fair value hedges When a derivative is designated as a hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognised immediately in the income statement together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the derivative expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for fair value hedge accounting, or the designation is revoked, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Any adjustment up to that point, to a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss as part of the recalculated effective interest rate of the item over its remaining life.
c Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within net fair value gains losses on financial investments through the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the assets and that event has an impact on the estimated cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 1 Statement of accounting policies continued If there is objective evidence that impairment exists, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, bank overdrafts and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Operating leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made for operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits a Pension obligations The group operates a defined benefit pension plan that is now closed to future service accruals.
The scheme is generally funded by payments from the group taking account of the recommendations of an independent qualified actuary.
All employees now participate in a defined contribution pension funded by the group.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors like age, years of service and compensation.
The pension costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method the costs of providing pensions are charged to the income statement so as to spread the regular costs over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the qualified actuary, who values the plans annually.
The pension obligation is measured at present value of the estimated future net cash flows and is stated net of plan assets.
Actuarial gains or losses arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the corridor method.
Actuarial gains or losses that exceed 10 per cent of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the present value of the gross defined benefit obligations in the scheme are recognised in the income statement over the average remaining working lives of employees participating in the scheme.
For the defined contribution plan, the group pays contributions to a privately administered pension plan.
Once the contributions have been paid, the group has no further obligations.
The groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
b Share-based compensation The group offers option plans over the groups ordinary shares to certain employees, including the SAYE scheme, details of which are included in the directors remuneration report.
The group accounts for share compensation plans that were granted after 7 November 2002.
The cost of providing share-based compensation is based on the fair value of the share options at grant date, which is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the share options and a corresponding entry is recognised in reserves.
The fair value of the share options is determined using the Black Scholes method.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at balance sheet date and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior periods.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax available to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to employees.
The shares held in the employee share options plan ESOP are excluded from both the calculations, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Where the group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Contingent liabilities are present obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to meet the liabilities or if the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 85 Notes to the financial statements continue 2 Risk management The group has identified the risks arising from its activities and has established policies and procedures to manage these items in accordance with its risk appetite.
The group categorises its risks into six areas: insurance, credit, market, liquidity, operational and group risk.
The sections below outline the groups risk appetite and explain how it defines and manages each category of risk.
2.1 Insurance risk The groups insurance business assumes the risk of loss from persons or organisations that are directly exposed to an underlying loss.
Insurance risk arises from this risk transfer due to inherent uncertainties about the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The four key components of insurance risk are underwriting, reinsurance, claims management and reserving.
Each element is considered below.
a Underwriting risk Underwriting risk comprises four elements that apply to all insurance products offered by the group: Cycle risk the risk that business is written without full knowledge as to the in adequacy of rates, terms and conditions: Event risk the risk that individual risk losses or catastrophes lead to claims that are higher than anticipated in plans and pricing: Pricing risk the risk that the level of expected loss is understated in the pricing process: and Expense risk the risk that the allowance for expenses and inflation in pricing is inadequate.
The groups underwriting strategy is to seek a diverse and balanced portfolio of risks in order to limit the variability of outcomes.
This is achieved by accepting a spread of business over time, segmented between different products, geography and size.
The annual business plans for each underwriting team reflect the groups underwriting strategy, and set out the classes of business, the territories in which business is to be written and the industry sectors to which the group is prepared to expose itself.
These plans are approved by the board and monitored by the monthly underwriting committee.
Our underwriters calculate premiums for risks written based on a range of criteria tailored specifically to each individual risk.
These factors include but are not limited to the financial exposure, loss history, risk characteristics, limits, deductibles, terms and conditions and acquisition expenses.
The group also recognises that insurance events are, by their nature, random, and the actual number and size of events during any one year may vary from those estimated using established statistical techniques.
To address this, the group sets out the exposure that it is prepared to accept in certain territories to a range of events such as natural catastrophes and specific scenarios which may result in large industry losses.
This is monitored through regular calculation of realistic disaster scenarios RDS.
The aggregate position is monitored at the time of underwriting a risk, and reports are regularly produced to highlight the key aggregations to which the group is exposed.
The group uses a number of modelling tools to monitor aggregation and to simulate catastrophe losses in order to measure the effectiveness of its reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run using these models.
The range of scenarios considered include natural catastrophes, marine, liability, political, terrorism and war events.
One of the largest types of event exposure relates to natural catastrophe events such as flood damage, windstorm or earthquake.
Where possible the group measures geographic accumulations and uses its knowledge of the business, historical loss behaviour and commercial catastrophe modelling software to assess the probable maximum loss PML.
Upon application of the reinsurance coverage purchased, the key gross and net exposures are calculated on the basis of extreme events at a range of return periods.
The groups high level catastrophe risk appetite is set by the board and the business plans of each team are determined within these parameters.
The board may adjust these limits over time as conditions change.
Currently, the group operates to catastrophe risk appetite for a probabilistic 1 in 250 year US event of US$510m net of reinsurance.
Lloyds has also defined its own specific set of RDS events for which all syndicates with relevant exposures must report.
Of these the three largest events which impact Beazley are: 2009 2008 Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML Modelled PML before after before after reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance reinsurance Lloyds prescribed natural catastrophe event $m $m $m $m San Francisco quake US$78bn, 2008: US$74bn 695.0 239.8 480.3 204.4 Gulf of Mexico windstorm US$112.5bn, 2008: US$113bn 456.0 236.5 418.0 189.8 Florida Pinellas windstorm US$125.0bn, 2008: US$119bn 493.3 237.3 387.7 172.5 The net exposure of the group to each of these modelled events at a given point in time is a function of assumptions made about how, where and the magnitude of the event that occurs, the amount of business written that is exposed to each event and the reinsurance arrangements in place.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued To manage underwriting exposures, the group has developed limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite and are specific to underwriters, classes of business and industry.
In 2009, the normal maximum gross PML line that any one underwriter could commit the managed syndicates to was US$100m.
In most cases, maximum lines for classes of business were much lower than this.
These authority limits are enforced through a comprehensive sign-off process for underwriting transactions including dual sign-off for all line underwriters and peer review for all risks exceeding individual underwriters authority limits.
Exception reports are also run regularly to monitor compliance.
All underwriters also have a right to refuse renewal or change the terms and conditions of insurance contracts upon renewal.
Rate monitoring details, including limits, deductibles, exposures, terms and conditions and risk characteristics are also captured and the results are combined to monitor the rating environment for each class of business.
Binding Authority contracts A proportion of the groups insurance risks are transacted by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities.
Each third party is thoroughly vetted by our coverholder approval group before it can bind risks, and is subject to rigorous monitoring to maintain underwriting quality and confirm ongoing compliance with contractual guidelines.
Operating Divisions In 2009, the groups business consisted of five operating divisions.
The following table provides a breakdown of premiums written by division and also provides a geographical split based on placement of risk.
UK US 2009 Lloyds Non Lloyds Total Marine 16% 16% Political risks and contingency 9% 9% Property 15% 3% 18% Reinsurance 8% 8% Specialty lines 36% 13% 49% Total 84% 16% 100% UK US 2008 Lloyds Non Lloyds Total Marine 14% 14% Political risks and contingency 7% 7% Property 15% 7% 22% Reinsurance 13% 13% Specialty lines 32% 12% 44% Total 81% 19% 100% b Reinsurance risk Reinsurance risk to the group arises where reinsurance contracts put in place to reduce gross insurance risk do not perform as anticipated, result in coverage disputes or prove inadequate in terms of the vertical or horizontal limits purchased.
Failure of a reinsurer to pay a valid claim is considered a credit risk which is detailed separately below.
The groups reinsurance programmes compliment the underwriting team business plans and seek to protect group capital from an adverse volume or volatility of claims on both a per risk and per event basis.
In some cases the group deems it more economic to hold capital than purchase reinsurance.
These decisions are regularly reviewed as an integral part of the business planning and performance monitoring process.
The reinsurance security committee RSC examines and approves all reinsurers to ensure that they possess suitable security.
The groups ceded reinsurance team ensures that these guidelines are followed, undertakes the administration of reinsurance contracts, monitors and instigates our responses to any erosion of the reinsurance programmes.
c Claims management risk Claims management risk may arise within the group in the event of inaccurate or incomplete case reserves and claims settlements, poor service quality or excessive claims handling costs.
These risks may damage the group brand and undermine its ability to win and retain business or incur punitive damages.
These risks can occur at any stage of the claims life-cycle.
The groups claims teams are focused on delivering quality, reliability and speed of service to both internal and external clients.
Their aim is to adjust and process claims in a fair, efficient and timely manner, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, the regulatory environment, and the business broader interests.
Prompt and accurate case reserves are set for all known claims liabilities, including provisions for expenses.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued d Reserving and ultimate reserves risk Reserving and ultimate reserves risk occurs within the group where established insurance liabilities are insufficient through inaccurate forecasting, or where there is inadequate allowance for expenses and reinsurance bad debts in provisions.
To manage reserving and ultimate reserves risk, our experienced actuarial team uses a range of recognised techniques to project gross premiums written, monitor claims development patterns and stress test ultimate insurance liability balances.
An external independent actuary also performs an annual review to produce a statement of actuarial opinion for reporting entities within the group.
The objective of the groups reserving policy is to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The estimates of gross premiums written and claims prepared by the actuarial department are used through a formal quarterly peer review process to independently test the integrity of the estimates produced by the underwriting teams for each class of business.
These meetings are attended by senior management, senior underwriters, actuarial, claims, and finance representatives.
2.2 Credit risk Credit risk arises where counterparties fail to meet their financial obligations in full as they fall due.
The primary sources of credit risk for the group are: Reinsurers whereby reinsurers may fail to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the group: Brokers and intermediaries whereby counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the group: and Investments whereby issuer default results in the group losing all or part of the value of a financial instrument.
The groups core business is to accept significant insurance risk and the appetite for other risks is low.
This protects the groups capital from erosion so that it can meet its insurance liabilities.
To assist in the understanding of credit risks, A. M. Best, Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P ratings are used.
These ratings have been categorised below as used for Lloyds reporting: A. M. Best Moodys S&P Tier 1 A to AAaa to A3 AAA to ATier 2 B to BBaa1 to Ba3 BBB to BBTier 3 C to CB1 to Caa B to CCC Tier 4 D, E, F, S Ca to C R, U, S 3 The following tables summarise the groups entire concentrations of credit risk: Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Deferred income tax 5.5 5.5 Financial investments 1,599.0 3.3 166.8 1,769.1 Derivative financial instruments 5.8 5.8 Insurance receivables 309.3 309.3 Reinsurance assets 718.1 718.1 Other receivables 15.9 15.9 Cash and cash equivalents 412.6 92.6 505.2 Total 2,756.9 3.3 568.7 3,328.9 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Tier 4 Unrated Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Deferred income tax 6.8 6.8 Financial investments 1,366.0 63.0 1.0 120.6 1,550.6 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Insurance receivables 287.8 287.8 Reinsurance assets 537.4 1.2 538.6 Other receivables 15.3 15.3 Cash and cash equivalents 441.9 1.7 443.6 Total 2,370.1 63.0 1.0 411.3 2,845.4 The valuation methodology of the financial investments are described in the accounting policies.
The carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date represents the maximum credit exposure.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued An analysis of the overall credit risk exposure indicates that the group has reinsurance assets that are impaired at the reporting date.
The total impairment provision made in respect of these assets at 31 December 2009 totals 9.8m 2008: 9.0m.
Insurance receivables, financial assets and all other asset balances held by the group have not been impaired, based on all evidence available, and no impairment provision has been recognised in respect of these assets.
Insurance receivables in respect of coverholder business are credit controlled by third party managers.
We monitor third party coverholders performance and their financial processes through the groups coverholder management team.
We are not aware of any items which are past due or potentially impaired.
The group has insurance receivables and reinsurance assets that are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
An aged analysis of insurance receivables that are past due but not impaired is presented below: Greater than Up to 30 days 30 60 days 60 90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2009 m m m m m Insurance receivables 5.0 1.5 0.4 1.6 8.5 Reinsurance assets 1.8 2.1 2.9 7.3 14.1 Greater than Up to 30 days 30 60 days 60 90 days 90 days past due past due past due past due Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m Insurance receivables 6.2 2.9 0.9 1.4 11.4 Reinsurance assets 0.1 1.8 0.8 2.9 5.6 These assets have been individually impaired after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the counterpartys financial position, pattern of historical payment information and disputes with counterparties.
The group has developed processes to formally examine all reinsurers before entering into new business arrangements.
New reinsurers are approved by the RSC, which also reviews arrangements with all existing reinsurers at least annually.
Vulnerable or slow-paying reinsurers are examined more frequently.
An approval system also exists for all new brokers, and broker performance is carefully monitored.
Regular exception reports highlight trading with non-approved brokers, and the groups credit control function frequently assesses the ageing and collectability of debtor balances.
Any large, aged items are prioritised and where collection is outsourced, incentives are in place to support these priorities.
The investments committee has established comprehensive guidelines for the groups investment managers regarding the type, duration and quality of investments acceptable to the group.
The performance of investment managers is regularly reviewed to confirm adherence to these guidelines.
2.3 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises where cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources, principally from claims arising from its insurance business.
In the majority of the cases, these claims are settled from the premiums received.
The groups approach is to manage its liquidity position so that it can reasonably survive a significant individual or market loss event details of the groups exposure to realistic disaster scenarios RDS are provided on page 86.
This means that the group maintains sufficient liquid assets, or assets that can be translated into liquid assets at short notice and without any significant capital loss, to meet expected cash flow requirements.
These liquid funds are regularly monitored using cash flow forecasting to ensure that surplus funds are invested to achieve a higher rate of return.
The group also makes use of loan facilities and borrowings, details of which can be found in note 24.
Further information on the groups capital resources is contained on page 41.
The sources and uses of funds table on page 42 shows the level of surplus capital that the group currently holds.
This is the surplus over expected working capital and regulatory capital requirements and represents a buffer that could be used to meet unforeseen costs or take advantage of new opportunities.
The following is an analysis by business segment of the estimated timing of the net cash flows based on the claims liabilities balance held at 31 December 2009: Weighted Within Greater than average term 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total to settlement 31 December 2009 m m m m m years Marine 57.7 53.2 17.8 1.3 130.0 1.6 Political risks and contingency 29.4 30.5 18.3 1.6 79.8 1.9 Property 77.7 52.5 10.1 4.0 144.3 1.4 Reinsurance 48.7 43.7 12.7 1.9 107.0 1.5 Specialty lines 206.8 383.6 243.2 103.3 936.9 2.6 Net insurance liabilities 420.3 563.5 302.1 112.1 1,398.0 Beazley Annual Report 2009 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Weighted Within Greater than average term 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total to settlement 31 December 2008 m m m m m years Marine 61.0 57.6 19.7 1.7 140.0 1.6 Political risks and contingency 20.6 22.3 12.6 2.0 57.5 1.9 Property 79.6 53.0 9.7 3.7 146.0 1.3 Reinsurance 46.8 40.8 10.1 1.4 99.1 1.5 Specialty lines 187.9 361.7 238.3 105.7 893.6 2.6 Net Insurance liabilities 395.9 535.4 290.4 114.5 1,336.2 The following table is an analysis of the net cash flows based on all the liabilities held at 31 December 2009: Within Greater than 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total 31 December 2009 m m m m m Net Insurance liabilities 420.3 563.5 302.1 112.1 1,398.0 Borrowings 173.1 173.1 Other payables 193.6 193.6 Deferred income tax 21.8 21.8 Current income tax liabilities 13.2 13.2 Within Greater than 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m Net Insurance liabilities 395.9 535.4 290.4 114.5 1,336.2 Borrowings 177.5 177.5 Other payables 115.7 115.7 Deferred income tax 37.1 37.1 Current income tax liabilities 7.8 7.8 2.4 Market risk Market risk arises where the value of assets and liabilities changes as a result of movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and market prices.
Foreign exchange risk The group is exposed to changes in the value of assets and liabilities due to movements in foreign exchange rates.
The group deals in four main currencies, US dollars, UK sterling, Canadian dollars and Euros.
Transactions in all other currencies are converted to UK sterling on initial recognition and revalued at the balance sheet date.
In 2009, the group managed its foreign exchange exposure by projecting forward US dollar profits for each calendar year and selling one twelfth of the expected amount each month.
The amounts sold are periodically validated against actual exposure and additional top up trades of US dollars are made if required.
The foreign exchange exposure to Canadian dollars and Euros is closely monitored by the group and a similar approach will be taken to manage the risk as our exposure grows in the future.
With effect from 1 January 2010 Beazley has taken the decision to match the groups underwriting capital by currency to the principal underlying currencies of its written premiums.
This will ensure that the groups capacity to underwrite business would be unaffected by any future movements in exchange rates.
To achieve this, the group has increased the US dollar component of its capital base by US$487m since the start of 2010 with an equivalent decrease in the sterling component.
The group also has investment in foreign subsidiaries with functional currencies that are different from the presentation currency.
This gives rise to a currency translation exposure to US dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Singapore dollars, although the exposures to Hong Kong dollars and Singapore dollars are minimal.
The US dollar translation exposure is managed by borrowing funds denominated in the same currency.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued The following table summarises the carrying value of total assets and total liabilities categorised by currency: US $ CAD $ EUR E Subtotal UK Total 31 December 2009 m m m m m m Total assets 2,568.9 84.0 194.4 2,847.3 658.3 3,505.6 Total liabilities 2,409.3 54.3 179.0 2,642.6 244.4 2,887.0 Net assets 159.6 29.7 15.4 204.7 413.9 618.6 US $ CAD $ EUR E Subtotal UK Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m m Total assets 2,439.4 81.3 204.8 2,725.5 272.0 2,997.5 Total liabilities 2,337.9 55.4 164.2 2,557.5 27.3 2,584.8 Net assets 101.5 25.9 40.6 168.0 244.7 412.7 The net assets have been stated excluding the effect of the cross-currency swap explained in note 25.
Sensitivity analysis Fluctuations in the groups main trading currencies would result in a change to net asset value.
The table below gives an indication of the impact on net assets of a % change in the relative strength of sterling against the value of the US dollar, Canadian dollar and Euro, simultaneously.
The analysis is based on the current information available and our assumptions in performing this analysis are: the analysis includes an estimate of the impact on our foreign borrowings and cross currency swaps: and the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items will be nil.
Impact on profit after tax for the year Impact on net assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Sterling weakens 30% against other currencies 26.5 13.0 49.0 30.9 Sterling weakens 20% against other currencies 17.6 8.0 32.7 20.0 Sterling weakens 10% against other currencies 8.8 4.3 16.3 10.3 Sterling strengthens 10% against other currencies 8.8 4.3 16.3 10.3 Sterling strengthens 20% against other currencies 17.6 8.6 32.7 20.6 Sterling strengthens 30% against other currencies 26.5 13.0 49.0 30.9 Interest rate risk Some of the groups financial instruments, including financial investments, cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, are exposed to movements in market interest rates.
The group manages interest rate risk by primarily investing in short duration financial investments and cash and cash equivalents.
The investment committee monitors the duration of these assets on a regular basis.
The following table shows the average duration of the financial instruments.
Duration is a commonly used measure of volatility and we believe gives a better indication than maturity of the likely sensitivity of our portfolio to changes in interest rates.
Duration 1 yr 1-2 yrs 2-3 yrs 3-4 yrs 4-5 yrs 5-10 yrs 10 yrs Total 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,000.8 436.9 129.8 9.1 25.6 1,602.2 Cash and cash equivalents 505.2 505.2 Derivative financial instruments 5.8 5.8 Borrowings 161.9 11.2 173.1 Total 1,506.0 436.9 129.8 9.1 25.6 156.1 11.2 1,940.1 Duration 1 yr 1-2 yrs 2-3 yrs 3-4 yrs 4-5 yrs 5-10 yrs 10 yrs Total 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m m Debt securities 1,013.2 179.0 132.4 60.0 30.6 14.3 0.4 1,429.9 Cash and cash equivalents 443.6 443.6 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Borrowings 165.0 12.5 177.5 Total 1,456.8 179.0 132.4 60.0 30.6 148.0 12.1 1,698.7 Beazley Annual Report 2009 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued The next two tables summarise the carrying amount of financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk by maturity at balance sheet date.
Further details are provided in notes 24 and 25.
Sensitivity analysis The group holds financial assets and liabilities that are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest yields, with all other variables constant, would result in a loss of capital on debt securities and a change in value of borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
This will affect net assets as indicated in the below table: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 m m m m Shift in yield basis points 150 basis point increase 17.1 18.7 17.1 18.7 100 basis point increase 11.4 12.6 11.4 12.6 50 basis point increase 5.7 6.3 5.7 6.3 50 basis point decrease 5.7 6.3 5.7 6.3 100 basis point decrease 11.4 12.6 11.4 12.6 Price risk Debt securities, equities and hedge funds that are recognised on the balance sheet at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in prices.
This is referred to as price risk.
Investments are made in debt securities, equities and hedge funds depending on the groups appetite for risk.
These investments are well diversified with high quality, liquid securities.
The investment committee has established comprehensive guidelines with investment managers setting out maximum investment limits, diversification across industries and concentrations in any one industry or company.
Listed investments are recognised on the balance sheet at quoted bid price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the group establishes fair value using valuation techniques.
This includes using recent arms length market transactions, reference to current fair value of other investments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 2 Risk management continued Sensitivity analysis The market price of debt securities have an inverse relationship to interest yields.
Sensitivity analysis on interest yields is provided above.
At 31 December 2009, the fair value of hedge funds recognised on the balance sheet was 166.8m 2008: 102.6m and the fair value of equities recognised on the balance sheet was nil 2008: 18.1m.
If the fair value of the groups hedge fund and equity portfolios were to change, then the overall pre-tax impact on net assets would be impacted as indicated in the below table: Impact on profit after income tax for the year Impact on net assets 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change in fair value of equity and hedge fund portfolios m m m m 30% increase in fair value 41.0 29.7 41.0 29.7 20% increase in fair value 27.4 19.8 27.4 19.8 10% increase in fair value 13.7 9.9 13.7 9.9 10% decrease in fair value 13.7 9.9 13.7 9.9 20% decrease in fair value 27.4 19.8 27.4 19.8 30% decrease in fair value 41.0 29.7 41.0 29.7 2.5 Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
There are a number of business activities for which the group uses the services of a third party company, such as investment management, data entry and credit control.
These service providers are selected against rigorous criteria and formal service level agreements are in place, and regularly monitored and reviewed.
The group also recognises that it is necessary for people, systems and infrastructure to be available to support our operations.
Therefore we have taken significant steps to mitigate the impact of business interruption which could follow a variety of events, including the loss of key individuals and facilities.
We operate a formal disaster recovery plan which, in the event of an incident, allows the group to move critical operations to an alternative location within 24 hours.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The group also regularly monitors the performance of its controls and adherence to these guidelines through the risk management reporting process.
Key components of the groups operational control environment include: ICA modelling of operational risk exposure and scenario testing: Management review of activities: Documentation of policies and procedures: Preventative and detective controls within key processes: Contingency planning: and Other systems controls.
2.6 Group risk Group risk occurs where business units fail to consider the impact of their activities on other parts of the group, as well as the risks arising from these activities.
There are four main components of group risk which are explained below.
Strategic This is the risk that the groups strategy is inappropriate or that the group is unable to implement its strategy.
There is no tolerance for any breach of guidance issued by the board, and where events supersede the group strategic plan this is escalated at the earliest opportunity through the groups monitoring tools and governance structure.
Reputation Reputation risk is the risk of negative publicity as a result of the groups contractual arrangements, customers, products, services and other activities.
Key sources of reputation risk include operation of a Lloyds franchise, interaction with capital markets since the groups IPO during 2002, and reliance upon the Beazley brand in the US, Europe and Asia.
The groups preference is to minimise reputation risks but where it is not possible or beneficial to avoid them, we seek to minimise their frequency and severity by management through public relations and communication channels.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Risk management continued Management stretch Management stretch is the risk that business growth might result in an insufficient or overly complicated management team structure, thereby undermining accountability and control within the group.
As the group expands its worldwide business in the UK, US, Europe and Asia, management stretch may make the identification, analysis and control of group risks more complex.
On a day-to-day basis, the groups management structure encourages organisational flexibility and adaptability, while ensuring that activities are appropriately coordinated and controlled.
By focusing on the needs of their customers and demonstrating both progressive and responsive abilities, staff, management and outsourced service providers are expected to excel in service and quality.
Individuals and teams are also expected to transact their activities in an open and transparent way.
These behavioural expectations reaffirm low group risk tolerance by aligning interests to ensure that routine activities, projects and other initiatives are implemented to benefit and protect resources of both local business segments and the group as a whole.
Capital management The group follows a risk based approach to determine the amount of capital required to support its activities.
Recognised stochastic modelling techniques are used to measure risk exposures, and capital to support business activities is allocated according to risk profile.
Stress and scenario analysis is regularly performed and the results are documented and reconciled to the boards risk appetite where necessary.
The group has several requirements for capital, including: 1 To support underwriting at Lloyds through syndicates 2623, 3623 and 3622.
This is based on the groups own individual capital assessment.
This may be provided in the form of either the groups cash and investments or debt facilities: 2 To support underwriting in Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. in the US: and 3 To make acquisitions, such as the First State Management Group, Inc. in 2009, of insurance companies or MGAs whose strategic goals are aligned with our own.
The capital structure section of the financial review along with the individual capital assessment and Solvency ll sections on pages 41 to 43 provide further background to the groups management of capital.
3 Segmental analysis a Reporting segments Segment information is presented in respect of reportable segments.
This is based on the groups management and internal reporting structures and represents the level at which financial information is reported to the Board, being the chief operating decision maker as defined in IFRS 8.
The operating segments are based upon the different types of insurance risk underwritten by the group as described below: Marine This segment underwrites a broad spectrum of marine classes including hull, energy, cargo & specie and war risks.
Political risks and contingency This segment underwrites terrorism, political violence, expropriation and credit risks as well as contingency and risks associated with contract frustration.
Property The property segment underwrites commercial, high-value homeowners and engineering property insurance on a worldwide basis.
Reinsurance This division specialises in writing property catastrophe, property per risk, aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata business.
It also includes our newly acquired accident and life insurance team.
Specialty lines This segment mainly underwrites professional lines, employment practices liability, specialty treaty, directors and officers liability and healthcare.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The reporting segments do not cross-sell business between each other and there are no individual policy holders that comprise greater than ten per cent of the groups total gross premiums written.
b Underlying profit Underlying profits are based on profit before income tax after the notional adjustment for foreign exchange differences on non-monetary items.
Foreign exchange differences on non-monetary items have been separately disclosed as management believes this provides a fairer representation of the operating ratios of the business.
Without this notional adjustment the operating divisions results would be distorted by the mismatch arising under IFRSs whereby unearned premium reserve, reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve and deferred acquisition costs DAC are treated as non-monetary items and claims reserves are treated as monetary items.
Non-monetary items are carried at historic exchange rates, while monetary items are translated at closing rates.
This imbalance creates volatility in our accounts which cannot be hedged as the mismatch is not monetary in nature.
Finance costs and taxation are not allocated to operating segments as these items are determined by entity level factors and do not relate to operating performance.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 3 Segmental analysis continued c Segment results Political risks & Total reportable Marine contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines segments Unallocated Total 2009 m m m m m m m m Segment results Gross premiums written 168.8 81.3 251.2 133.8 480.4 1,115.5 1,115.5 Net premiums written 145.8 62.8 180.3 115.1 344.0 848.0 848.0 Net earned premiums 152.8 71.9 173.5 97.1 363.9 859.2 22.5 836.7 Net investment income 5.4 2.6 6.9 4.1 37.1 56.1 56.1 Other income 1.5 0.7 4.0 1.1 5.2 12.5 12.5 Revenue 159.7 75.2 184.4 102.3 406.2 927.8 22.5 905.3 Net insurance claims 59.1 54.7 101.5 36.8 220.9 473.0 473.0 Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 42.5 18.3 56.9 21.6 82.4 221.7 3.5 218.2 Administrative expenses 11.8 7.5 20.6 11.9 30.9 82.7 82.7 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.9 0.4 1.3 0.7 2.4 5.7 27.6 21.9 Expenses 112.5 80.1 177.7 69.6 331.8 771.7 24.1 795.8 Segments result 47.2 4.9 6.7 32.7 74.4 156.1 46.6 109.5 Finance costs 8.8 8.8 Profit before income tax 147.3 100.7 Income tax expense 12.3 Profit after income tax 88.4 Claims ratio 39% 76% 58% 38% 61% 55% Expense ratio 35% 36% 45% 34% 31% 35% Combined ratio 74% 112% 103% 72% 92% 90% Underlying profit comprises profit before income tax after the notional adjustment on foreign exchange in non-monetary items see detailed explanation in note 3b to the financial statements.
This adjustment is not allocated by segment.
UK earned premium in the analysis below represents all risks placed at Lloyds and US earned premium represents all risks placed at the groups US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company Inc. An analysis of earned premium split geographically by segment is provided in note 2 on page 87.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 3 Segmental analysis continued Segment assets are allocated based on where the assets are located.
Capital expenditure 2009 2008 m m UK Lloyds 25.7 24.1 US Non-Lloyds 25.7 24.1 4 Net investment income 2009 2008 m m Investment income at fair value through income statement 40.6 65.1 Realised gains losses on financial investments at fair value through income statement 14.8 49.5 Net fair value gains losses on financial investments through income statement 6.6 38.1 Investment management expenses 5.9 3.3 56.1 25.8 5 Other income 2009 2008 m m Profit commissions 5.1 5.0 Agency fees 1.0 1.0 Other income 6.4 4.1 12.5 10.1 6 Operating expenses 2009 2008 m m Fees payable to the companys auditor for the audit of the groups annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.2 Tax services 0.1 Fees in respect of rights issue and redomiciliation to Ireland 0.2 Actuarial services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.4 0.2 Operating leases 4.0 2.4 7 Employee benefit expenses 2009 2008 m m Wages and salaries 46.5 34.6 Short-term incentive payments 22.3 10.5 Social security 5.7 4.4 Share-based remunerations 5.2 4.7 Pension costs 3.8 3.0 83.5 57.2 Recharged to syndicate 623 8.3 7.8 75.2 49.4 Pension costs refer to the contributions made under the defined contribution scheme, further information on the defined benefit pension scheme can be found in note 27.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Finance costs 2009 2008 m m Interest expense 8.8 12.2 Arrangement fees 0.4 8.8 12.6 9 Income tax expense 2009 2008 m m Current tax expense Current year 29.1 20.7 Prior year adjustments 2.2 0.7 26.9 20.0 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 17.2 3.0 Prior year adjustments 2.6 0.2 14.6 2.8 Income tax expense 12.3 22.8 Profit before income tax 100.7 87.2 Tax calculated at Irish rate 2008: UK rate 12.6 24.9 Rates applied 12.5% 28.5% Effects of: Tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 4.5 0.2 Retranslation of deferred tax balances on redomiciliation 7.3 Non-deductible expenses 0.3 1.5 Tax relief on share-based payments current and future years 1.8 2.9 Under over provided in prior years 0.4 0.9 Tax charge for the period 12.3 22.8 The effective tax rate was 12.2% 2008: 26.1%.
10 Earnings per share 2009 2008 Basic 18.4p 18.8p Diluted 17.8p 18.0p Basic Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of 88.4m 2008: 64.4m by the weighted average number of issued shares during the year of 479.5m 2008: 342.6m.
The shares held in the Employee Share Options Plan ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax of 88.4m 2008: 64.4m by the adjusted weighted average number of shares of 497.4m 2008: 358.7m.
The adjusted weighted average number of shares assumes conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares, being shares from the SAYE, retention and deferred share schemes.
The shares held in the ESOP have been excluded from the calculation, until such time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
11 Dividends per share The second interim dividend of 4.7p 2008: 4.4p per ordinary share, will be payable on 30 March 2010 to shareholders registered at 5.00pm on 5 March 2010 in respect of the six months ended 31 December 2009.
These financial statements do not provide for the second interim dividend as a liability.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.3p 2008: 2.2p, this gives a total dividend for the year of 7.0p 2008: 6.6p.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 12 Intangible assets Syndicate IT development Goodwill capacity Licences costs Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2008 15.5 4.4 4.6 8.0 32.5 Acquired through business combinations 17.9 17.9 Other additions 0.5 3.3 3.8 Foreign exchange gain 3.8 1.8 5.6 Amounts written off 1.3 1.3 Balance at 31 December 2008 35.9 4.9 6.4 11.3 58.5 Balance at 1 January 2009 35.9 4.9 6.4 11.3 58.5 Acquired through business combinations 14.8 14.8 Other additions 1.1 6.9 8.0 Foreign exchange loss 2.8 0.6 3.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 47.9 6.0 5.8 18.2 77.9 Amortisation Balance at 1 January 2008 3.8 3.8 Amounts written off during the year Amortisation for the year 2.2 2.2 Balance at 31 December 2008 6.0 6.0 Balance at 1 January 2009 6.0 6.0 Amortisation for the year 1.4 1.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 7.4 7.4 Carrying amount 31 December 2009 47.9 6.0 5.8 10.8 70.5 31 December 2008 35.9 4.9 6.4 5.3 52.5 Impairment tests Goodwill, syndicate capacity and licences are deemed to have indefinite life as they are expected to have value in use that does not erode or become obsolete over the course of time.
Consequently, they are not amortised but annually tested for impairment.
They are allocated to the groups cash generating units CGUs as follows: Political risks and Specialty Marine contingency Property Reinsurance Lines Total 2009 m m m m m m Goodwill 1.4 0.6 15.0 18.6 12.3 47.9 Licences 1.2 4.6 5.8 Capacity 0.9 0.5 1.4 0.5 2.7 6.0 Total 2.3 1.1 17.6 19.1 19.6 59.7 Political risks and Specialty Marine contingency Property Reinsurance Lines Total 2008 m m m m m m Goodwill 1.5 0.7 1.7 18.6 13.4 35.9 Licences 1.6 4.8 6.4 Capacity 0.9 0.4 1.0 0.4 2.2 4.9 Total 2.4 1.1 4.3 19.0 20.4 47.2 Beazley Annual Report 2009 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets continued When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated using projected cash flows based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period taking into account historic growth rates and expected future market conditions.
A discount rate of 9% 2008: 6% has been used to discount the projected cash flows.
The same discount rate has been applied to all operating segments as these segments all undertake underwriting activities supported by the same capital base.
The discount rate of 9% is the groups weighted average cost of capital.
It has been calculated using independent measures of the risk free rate of return and the groups risk profile relative to the risk free and market rates of return.
The impairment test has been performed assuming the groups operating segments are the cash generating units to which the intangible assets have been allocated.
The test indicated that there is significant headroom in respect of the value in use of all the groups intangible assets, and it is not expected that any realistic change in market conditions would give rise to an impairment.
13 Plant and equipment Company Group Fixtures Fixtures Computer & fittings & fittings equipment Total m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2008 8.2 1.8 10.0 Additions 1.0 1.4 2.4 Foreign exchange gain 0.8 0.3 1.1 Balance at 31 December 2008 10.0 3.5 13.5 Balance at 1 January 2009 10.0 3.5 13.5 Additions 0.3 2.0 1.1 3.1 Foreign exchange loss 0.4 0.2 0.6 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.3 11.6 4.4 16.0 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 January 2008 2.2 0.6 2.8 Depreciation charge for the year 1.5 0.8 2.3 Foreign exchange loss 0.2 0.1 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2008 3.9 1.5 5.4 Balance at 1 January 2009 3.9 1.5 5.4 Depreciation charge for the year 1.7 1.5 3.2 Foreign exchange gain 0.2 0.1 0.3 Balance at 31 December 2009 5.4 2.9 8.3 Carrying amounts 31 December 2009 0.3 6.2 1.5 7.7 31 December 2008 6.1 2.0 8.1 14 Investment in associates 2009 2008 m m As at 1 January 1.3 Acquisition of subsidiary 1.3 Acquisition of associate 0.9 As at 31 December 0.9 100 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 14 Investment in associates continued On 8 October 2009, the group acquired 25.0% of the ordinary share capital of Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited.
Summary of the financial information of the associate unlisted 100% Country of Assets Liabilities Equity Profit incorporation m m m m 2009 Falcon Money Management Holdings Limited and subsidiaries Malta 2.6 1.8 0.8 The company was incorporated in 2009.
15 Deferred acquisition costs 2009 2008 m m Balance at 1 January 91.5 82.0 Additions 223.3 192.1 Amortisation charge 218.2 182.6 Balance at 31 December 96.6 91.5 16 Financial investments 2009 2008 m m Financial investments at fair value through income statement Equity securities-listed 18.1 Hedge funds 166.8 102.6 Debt securities Fixed interest 1,230.2 1,089.8 Floating interest 372.1 340.1 Total financial investments at fair value through income statement 1,769.1 1,550.6 Current 734.0 795.2 Non-current 1,035.1 755.4 1,769.1 1,550.6 A further breakdown of the groups investment portfolio is provided on pages 37 and 38.
As noted on page 83 consideration is also given when valuing these funds to any restriction applied to distributions, the evidence of side pocket provisions and the timing of the latest valuations.
The adjustment to the underlying net asset value of the funds as a result of these considerations was nil at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
The group has given a fixed and floating charge over its investments and other assets to secure obligations to Lloyds in respect of its corporate member subsidiary.
Further details are provided in note 32.
Fair value measurement The table below summarises financial assets carried at fair value using a valuation hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the instrument occur with sufficient frequency and volume on an ongoing basis such that quoted prices reflect prices at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
Included within Level 1 are bonds and treasury bills of major G-8 government and government agencies.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, or based on pricing models for which significant inputs can be corroborated by observable market data e. g. interest rates, exchange rates.
Included within Level 2 are non-G8 government bonds and treasury bills, corporate bonds, asset backed securities and mortgage backed securities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable or for which there is limited market activity on which to measure fair value.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial investments continued The availability of financial data can vary for different financial assets and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the market place, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment.
Accordingly the degree of judgment exercised by management in determining fair value is greatest for instruments classified in Level 3.
The Group uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date for valuation of these instruments.
Included within Level 3 are investments in capital growth assets such as hedge funds.
The table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value at 31 December 2009, based on the level in the fair value hierarchy into which the financial instrument is categorised: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Government and Government Agencies 893.7 79.9 973.6 Other fixed income core portfolio 628.7 628.7 Capital Growth assets 166.8 166.8 Total assets at fair value 893.7 708.6 166.8 1,769.1 The table below shows the movement in level 3 assets during the year: m Level 3 balance at 1 January 2009 102.6 Purchases 124.3 Settlements 72.4 Fair value gains reflected in the income statement 12.3 Level 3 balance at 31 December 2009 166.8 There were no transfers between fair value hierarchies during the year.
17 Insurance receivables 2009 2008 m m Insurance receivables 309.3 287.8 309.3 287.8 These are receivable within one year and relate to business transacted with brokers and intermediaries.
All insurance receivables are designated as loans and receivables.
18 Reinsurance assets 2009 2008 m m Reinsurers share of claims 566.5 461.7 Impairment provision 9.8 9.0 556.7 452.7 Reinsurers share of unearned premium reserve 161.4 85.9 718.1 538.6 Further analysis of the reinsurance asset is provided in note 23.
19 Cash and cash equivalents 2009 2008 m m Cash at bank and in hand 155.3 124.4 Short-term deposits 313.8 212.9 Overseas deposits 36.1 106.3 Cash and cash equivalents 505.2 443.6 102 www.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 20 Share capital 2009 2008 No.
of shares m m shares m m Ordinary shares of 5p each Authorised 700.0 35.0 450.0 22.5 Issued and fully paid 533.8 26.7 369.5 18.5 Balance at 1 January 369.5 18.5 367.1 18.4 Issue of shares 164.3 8.2 2.4 0.1 Balance at 31 December 533.8 26.7 369.5 18.5 On 3 April 2009 the group raised 150m of additional equity capital net of fees was raised.
This was achieved through a fully underwritten 9 for 19 rights issue and a placement.
21 Reserves Foreign Employee Employee currency share share Share Merger translation options Treasury trust premium reserve reserve reserve shares reserve Total m m m m m m m Group Balance at 1 January 2008 234.8 1.6 2.5 5.0 5.1 10.7 223.1 Issue of shares 0.8 0.8 Share-based payments 4.6 4.6 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 7.1 7.1 Purchase of treasury shares 24.9 24.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 11.6 11.6 Transfer of shares to employees 1.2 1.2 Balance at 31 December 2008 235.6 1.6 9.1 8.4 30.0 16.6 208.1 Issue of shares 141.6 141.6 Share-based payments 5.2 5.2 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 3.9 3.9 Cancellation of treasury shares 29.1 30.0 0.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 7.7 7.7 Transfer of shares to employees 3.2 3.2 Transfer on scheme of arrangement and reverse acquisition 347.8 5.8 4.3 9.1 358.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.3 4.2 5.7 1.3 17.3 14.2 The above movements in reserves are stated net of any related taxation.
As part of the scheme of arrangement, described in note 1 of the financial statements, the reserves of the group were consolidated and transferred to retained earnings, at which point they became distributable reserves of the group.
Employee Employee share share Share Merger options trust premium reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m Company Balance on incorporation at 9 June 2009 Transfer on scheme of arrangement and reverse acquisition 22.1 22.1 Issue of shares 0.3 0.3 Share-based payments 2.8 2.8 Acquisition of own shares held in trust 2.6 2.6 Transfer of shares to employees 1.2 1.2 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.3 22.1 1.6 1.4 21.6 Beazley Annual Report 2009 103 Notes to the financial statements continue 22 Equity compensation plans 22.1 Employee share trust 2009 2008 Number m m Number m m Costs debited to employee share trust reserve Balance at 1 January 12.6 16.6 8.4 10.7 Additions 4.2 3.9 5.1 7.1 Transfer of shares to employees 2.6 3.2 0.9 1.2 Balance at 31 December 14.2 17.3 12.6 16.6 The shares are owned by the employee share trust to satisfy awards under the groups deferred share plan and retention plan.
These shares are purchased on the market and carried at cost.
On the third anniversary of an award the shares under the deferred share plan are transferred from the trust to the employees.
Under the retention plan, on the third anniversary, and each year after that, 25.0% of the shares awarded are transferred to the employees.
The deferred share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, while the retention share plan is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over a period of six years.
22.2 Employee share option plans The group has a long term incentive plan LTIP, approved share option plan, unapproved share option plan, phantom share option and SAYE that entitle employees to purchase shares in the group.
In accordance with these plans, options are exercisable at the market price of the shares at the date of the grant.
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows: Share option plan Grant date No.
of options m Vesting conditions Contractual life of options LTIP 21 03 2005 0.4 Three years service NAV TSR comparator 10 years 21 03 2006 0.2 21 03 2007 0.7 21 03 2008 0.6 16 02 2009 1.6 27 04 2009 0.1 Approved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years Unapproved share option plan 29 03 2004 0.1 Three years service NAV 10 years 06 12 2004 0.1 SAYE UK 13 04 2007 0.3 Three years service n a 18 04 2008 0.1 01 07 2009 1.6 SAYE US 18 04 2008 0.1 Two years service n a 15 05 2009 0.3 Total share options outstanding 6.3 Vesting conditions In summary the vesting conditions are defined as: Two years service An employee has to remain in employment until the second anniversary from the grant date.
Three years service An employee has to remain in employment until the third anniversary from the grant date.
NAV The NAV growth is greater than the risk-free rate of return plus a premium per year.
TSR comparator The groups TSR growth is compared with that of members of the comparator group over a three-year period starting with the year in which the award is made.
Further details of equity compensation plans can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 69.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 22 Equity compensation plans continued The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise price pence No.
of options price pence No.
of options per share m per share m Outstanding at 1 January 37.6 5.0 33.8 6.9 Rights issue 26.9 0.3 Forfeited during the year 23.4 1.4 25.8 0.7 Exercised during the year 37.4 1.2 33.5 2.4 Granted during the year 39.7 3.6 47.6 1.2 Outstanding at 31 December 35.7 6.3 37.6 5.0 Exercisable at 31 December 0.9 0.8 The share option programme allows group employees to acquire shares of the company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in employee share options reserve.
The fair value of the options granted is measured at grant date and spread over the period in which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest, except where forfeiture is due to the share option achieving the vesting conditions.
The following is a summary of the assumptions used to calculate the fair value: 2009 2008 m m Share options charge to income statement 5.2 4.7 Weighted average share price pence per option 114.4 123.8 Weighted average exercise price pence per option 35.7 37.6 Weighted average expected life of options 5.5yrs 5.6yrs Expected volatility 25.0% 25.0% Expected dividend yield 4.0% 4.0% Average risk-free interest rate 4.2% 4.3% The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over a period of at least two years.
23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2009 2008 m m Gross Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 552.0 497.3 Claims incurred but not reported 1,402.7 1,291.6 Gross claims liabilities 1,954.7 1,788.9 Unearned premiums 544.5 457.8 Total insurance liabilities, gross 2,499.2 2,246.7 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 158.6 109.4 Claims incurred but not reported 398.1 343.3 Reinsurers share of claims liabilities 556.7 452.7 Unearned premiums 161.4 85.9 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 718.1 538.6 Beazley Annual Report 2009 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 2009 2008 m m Net Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 393.4 387.9 Claims incurred but not reported 1,004.6 948.3 Net claims liabilities 1,398.0 1,336.2 Unearned premiums 383.1 371.9 Total insurance liabilities, net 1,781.1 1,708.1 The gross claims reported, the loss adjustment liabilities and the liabilities for claims incurred but not reported are net of expected recoveries from salvage and subrogation.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued 23.2 Assumptions, changes in assumptions and sensitivity a Process used to decide on assumptions The peer review reserving process Beazley uses a quarterly dual track process to set its reserve: The actuarial team uses several actuarial and statistical methods to estimate the ultimate premium and claims costs.
The most appropriate methods are selected depending on the nature of each class of business: and The underwriting teams concurrently review the development of the incurred loss ratio over time, work with our claims managers to set specific reserve estimates for identified claims and utilise their detailed understanding of the risks underwritten to establish an alternative estimate of ultimate claims cost which are compared to the actuarially established figures.
A formal internal peer review process is then undertaken to determine the reserves held for accounting purposes which, in totality, are not lower than the actuarially established figure.
The group also commissions an annual independent review to ensure that the reserves established are reasonable.
Actuarial assumptions Chain-ladder techniques are applied to premiums, paid claims and incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years that are still at immature stages of development where there is a higher level of assumption volatility.
The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims observed to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique has been used in situations where developed claims experience was not available for the projection i. e. recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The expected loss ratio method uses a benchmark market-based estimate applied to the expected premium and is used for classes with little or no relevant historical data.
The choice of selected results for each underwriting year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for individual underwriting years or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
As such, there are many assumptions used to estimate general insurance liabilities.
We also review triangulations of the paid outstanding claim ratios as a way of monitoring any changes in the strength of the outstanding claim estimates between underwriting years so that adjustment can be made to mitigate any subsequent over or under reserving.
To date, this analysis indicates no systematic change to the outstanding claim strength across underwriting years.
Where a significantly large loss impacts an underwriting year e. g. the events of 11 September 2001 and the hurricanes in 2004, 2005 and 2008, its development is usually very different from the attritional losses.
In these situations, the large loss is extracted from the remainder of the data and analysed separately by the respective claims managers using exposure analysis of the policies in force in the areas affected.
Further assumptions are required to convert gross of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims cost to a net of reinsurance level and to establish reserves for unallocated claims handling expenses and reinsurance bad debt.
b Major assumptions The main assumption underlying these techniques is that the groups past claims development experience with appropriate adjustments for known changes can be used to project future claims development and hence ultimate claims costs.
As such these methods extrapolate the development of premiums, paid and incurred losses, average costs per claim and claim numbers for each underwriting year based on the observed development of earlier years.
Throughout, judgement is used to assess the extent to which past trends may not apply in the future, for example, to reflect changes in external or market factors such as economic conditions, public attitudes to claiming, levels of claims inflation, premium rate changes, judicial decisions and legislation, as well as internal factors such as portfolio mix, policy conditions and claims handling procedures.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued c Changes in assumptions As already discussed, general insurance business requires many different assumptions.
The diagram below illustrates the main categories of assumptions used for each underwriting year and class combinations.
Marine Political risks and contingency Premium rate change Property Claims inflation Reinsurance Mix of business Specialty lines Reporting patterns Settlement patterns Judicial decisions Professional judgment Underwriting years 1993 1994... 2008 2009 Given the range of assumptions used, the groups profit or loss is relatively insensitive to changes to a particular assumption used for an underwriting year class combination.
However, the groups profit or loss is potentially more sensitive to a systematic change in assumptions that affect many classes, such as judicial changes or when catastrophes produce more claims than expected.
The group uses a range of risk mitigation strategies to reduce the volatility including the purchase of reinsurance.
In addition, the group holds additional capital as ICA.
The net of reinsurance estimates of ultimate claims costs on the 2008 and prior underwriting years has improved by 65.9m during 2009 2008: 72.8m.
This movement has arisen from a combination of better than expected claims experience coupled with small changes to the many assumptions reacting to the observed experience and anticipating any changes as a result of the new business written.
d Sensitivity analysis The estimation of IBNR reserves for future claim notifications is subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than the estimation of the outstanding claims already notified.
This is particularly true for the specialty lines business, which will typically display greater variations between initial estimates and final outcomes as a result of the greater degree of difficulty in estimating these reserves.
The estimation of IBNR reserves for other business written is generally subject to less variability as claims are generally reported and settled relatively quickly.
As such, our reserving assumptions contain a reasonable margin for prudence given the uncertainties inherent in the insurance business underwritten, particularly on the longer tailed specialty lines classes.
Since year end 2004, we have identified a range of possible outcomes for each class and underwriting year combination directly from our ICA process.
Comparing these with our pricing assumptions and reserving estimates gives our management team increased clarity into our perceived reserving strength and relative uncertainties of the business written.
To illustrate the robustness of our reserves, the loss development tables below provide information about historical claims development by the five segments marine, political risks and contingency, property, reinsurance and specialty lines.
The tables are by underwriting year which in our view provides the most transparent reserving basis.
We have supplied tables for both ultimate gross claims and ultimate net claims.
The top part of the table illustrates how the groups estimate of claims ratio for each underwriting year has changed at successive year-ends.
The bottom half of the table reconciles the gross and net claims to the amount appearing in the balance sheet.
While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of the claims liabilities established in previous years, users of these financial statements are cautioned against extrapolating past redundancies or deficiencies on current claims liabilities.
The group believes that the estimate of total claims liabilities as at 31 December 2009 are adequate.
However, due to inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Analysis of movements in loss development tables We have updated our loss development tables to show the ultimate loss ratios as at 31 December 2009 for each underwriting year.
Generally, the claims experience has been less than an average year, particularly given the low incidence of natural catastrophes and the relatively stable claims frequency on our specialty lines classes.
Following a review of the hurricane claims, we have partially released reserves held on hurricanes Katrina and Ike.
This illustrates our reserving philosophy of establishing cautious initial reserves with reductions over time as the uncertainty reduces.
The level of paid claims for the 2004, 2005 and 2008 hurricanes has now reached 96%, 93% and 50% of the updated estimate of ultimate claims costs respectively.
Marine All years have exhibited a stable or reducing trend.
This team continues to report profitable loss ratios on all underwriting years despite the significant impact that the 2005 and 2008 hurricanes had on the energy market.
Political risks and contingency As highlighted during this year, the ultimate claims on the 2006, 2007 and 2008 underwriting years have increased as a result of the deterioration in the claims environment of our political class, particularly from trade credit related contracts.
Nevertheless, the claim estimates announced in our third quarter 2009 interim management statement have remained robust through the fourth quarter.
We continue to monitor claim frequency on a calendar month basis as an early indicator for future development.
Property The late development on the 2003 underwriting year, albeit of relatively low quantum, has arisen from an unexpected court ruling on our homeowners account.
The increase in ultimate claims on the 2006 underwriting year arose on our engineering class from a fire at a desulphurisation plant.
It has taken some time to gain access to the site in order to establish an appropriate reserve.
The reduction in gross ultimate loss ratio on the 2008 underwriting year without a corresponding net reduction has arisen from premium movements rather than changes to the claims.
Whilst the gross premium has increased, increases to reinsurance premiums has resulted in a relatively unchanged net premium.
Reading across the top row of the loss development table, we note that the initial ultimate loss ratio for the 2009 underwriting year is less than that initially established for prior catastrophe-free years.
This has arisen because the introduction of First State has improved the portfolio level ultimate loss ratio.
Reinsurance All years have continued to reduce.
The reserves for hurricanes Katrina and Ike have been reassessed and reduced during 2009.
For hurricane Katrina this is a continuation of the release made in 2008 and for hurricane Ike this is the first release from the cautious estimates initially established.
The accident & life business is included in this team on the 2009 underwriting year.
Whilst it is too early to make any releases, the claims development to date has been in line with or better than that experienced historically by the team.
Specialty lines The trend of consistent releases across underwriting years has continued.
The improvement of the 2004 underwriting year has continued and the gap to the 2003 underwriting year has closed slightly.
We have mentioned in previous commentaries that the differential between 2004 and 2003 was partially caused by the timing of the reduction in uncertainty on 2004 which we expected to unwind over time.
We continue to take a more conservative view on the 2006 underwriting year by not releasing reserves at 31 December 2009.
However, the incurred claims development continues to track prior underwriting years.
The 2007 underwriting year has seen early incurred development from a small number of large losses.
We have observed that the development of this underwriting year has stabilised during 2009 as the development has been more in line with prior underwriting years during this period.
Despite this stabilisation we have continued to maintain our initial loss ratios.
The early claims experience of the 2008 and 2009 underwriting years continues to be in line with the 2006 & prior underwriting years.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets continued Claim releases The table below analyses our net claims between current year claims and adjustments to prior year net claims reserves.
These have been broken down by department and period.
When quoted market prices are not available, a discounted cash flow model is used based on a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining term to maturity.
The discount rates used in the valuation techniques are based on the borrowing rates.
In November 2004, the group issued subordinated debt of US $18m to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A JPMorgan.
The loan was unsecured and interest was payable at the US London interbank offered rate LIBOR plus a margin of 3.65% per annum.
The subordinated notes are due in November 2034.
In October 2006, the group issued 150m of unsecured fixed floating rate subordinated notes that are due in October 2026 with a first callable date of October 2016.
Interest of 7.25% per annum is paid annually in arrears for the period up to October 2016.
From October 2016, the notes will bear annual interest at the rate of 3.28% above LIBOR.
The notes were assigned a credit rating of BBBby S&Ps rating services.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 24 Borrowings continued The group entered into a cross currency swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
In exchange for 42.3m the group received US$40m from each party which will be finally exchanged on termination of the contract, being October 2016.
Lloyds Banking Group charges interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.25%, while JPMorgan charges interest at US three-month LIBOR plus 2.23%.
As part of the agreement, the group receives interest at 7.25% from both parties.
There is an option, exercisable by both parties, to terminate the swaps in October 2011 and annually thereafter until October 2016.
The group also entered into an interest rate swap transaction with Lloyds Banking Group and JPMorgan in October 2006.
Under this agreement, the fixed interest rate of 7.25% on the balance of 107.7m 53.8m from each party is exchanged for floating interest rate of UK LIBOR plus 2.24% with Lloyds Banking Group and UK LIBOR plus 2.23% with JPMorgan.
This agreement terminates on 17 October 2016 with an optional early termination in October 2011 and annually thereafter, exercisable by both parties.
In addition to these borrowings we operate a 100m syndicated short-term banking facility, managed through Lloyds Banking Group.
The facility was successfully renegotiated for three years in July 2008 if funds are drawn the charge is 1.25% above UK LIBOR: letters of credit raised against the facility are charged at 1.25%.
At the end of 2008, no drawings had been made against this facility.
25 Derivative financial instruments The group uses fair value interest rate hedges and net investment hedges to manage some of its exposures.
The group entered into derivative financial instruments to manage this risk.
2009 2008 m m Fair value Interest rate swap 13.5 16.7 Cross currency swap 7.7 14.0 5.8 2.7 a Fair value hedges As described in note 24, the group has hedged its fixed rate borrowing using fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps.
In 2009, the hedge was effective and therefore the group did not recognise any gain or loss in the income statement in respect of the hedge.
The loss on the hedging instrument, being the interest rate swap, was 3.2m in the period.
This was matched by a gain of 3.2m arising on the revaluation of the 150m borrowing.
b Hedge of net investment in foreign entity The groups US dollar denominated borrowing along with the cross currency swap are designated as a hedge of the net investment in the groups US subsidiaries.
The foreign exchange loss of 7.6m on translation of the borrowing and currency swap at the balance sheet date was recognised in foreign currency translation reserve.
This offsets the gain or loss on translation of the net investment in the groups US based subsidiaries.
26 Other payables 2009 2008 m m Reinsurance premiums payable 117.0 54.8 Accrued expenses including staff bonuses 41.0 30.4 Other payables 13.3 11.9 Amounts due to subsidiaries Deferred consideration payable on acquisition of MGAs 8.4 8.5 Due to syndicate 623 and associates 10.1 179.7 115.7 All other payables are payable within one year of the balance sheet date other than deferred consideration which is payable after one year.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Retirement benefit obligations 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m Retirement benefit obligations 0.9 1.9 2.9 Present value of funded obligations 15.4 10.3 17.5 16.0 14.1 Fair value of plan assets 12.9 10.0 15.5 13.4 10.1 Experience gains losses on scheme liabilities 0.3 1.1 0.1 1.3 0.2 Beazley Furlonge Limited operates a defined benefit pension scheme the Beazley Furlonge Limited Pension Scheme providing benefits based on final pensionable pay, with contributions being charged to the income statement so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the company.
The contributions are determined by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method and the most recent valuation was at 31 December 2009.
Pension benefits Amount recognised in the balance sheet 2009 2008 m m Present value of funded obligations 15.4 10.3 Fair value of plan assets 12.9 10.0 2.5 0.3 Unrecognised actuarial losses 3.5 0.3 Asset liability in the balance sheet 1.0 The asset in the pension scheme arose due to a prepayment of 1.0m in 2009.
Amounts recognised in the income statement Current service cost Interest cost 0.6 1.0 Expected return on plan assets 0.6 0.9 0.1 Movement in present value of funded obligations recognised in the balance sheet Balance at 1 January 10.3 17.5 Current service cost 0.3 Interest cost 0.6 1.0 Actuarial losses gains 4.2 8.2 Balance at 31 December 15.4 10.3 Movement in fair value of plan assets recognised in the balance sheet Balance at 1 January 10.0 15.5 Expected return on plan assets 0.6 0.9 Actuarial gains losses 1.3 3.0 Employer contributions 1.0 0.9 Benefits paid 4.3 Balance at 31 December 12.9 10.0 Plan assets are comprised as follows: Equities 8.4 6.9 Bonds 4.5 3.1 Total 12.9 10.0 The actual gain on plan assets was 1.9m 2008: 2.2m loss.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 27 Retirement benefit obligations continued 2009 2008 m m Principal actuarial assumptions Discount rate 5.7% 6.2% Inflation rate 3.7% 2.7% Expected return on plan assets 5.9% 5.3% Future salary increases 6.5% 5.5% Future pensions increases 3.2% 2.3% Life expectancy 88 years 84 years 28 Deferred income tax 2009 2008 m m Deferred income tax asset 5.5 6.8 Deferred income tax liability 21.8 37.1 16.3 30.3 The movement in the net deferred income tax is as follows: Balance at 1 January 30.3 29.5 Income tax charge 14.6 2.8 Foreign exchange translation differences 0.6 2.0 Balance at 31 December 16.3 30.3 Balance Recognised Recognised Balance 1 Jan 09 in income in equity 31 Dec 09 m m m m Plant and equipment 0.1 0.2 0.1 Intangible assets 0.3 0.2 0.5 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 2.3 0.5 1.8 Underwriting profits 39.1 15.8 23.3 Tax losses 6.8 0.7 0.6 5.5 Net deferred income tax account 30.3 14.6 0.6 16.3 Balance Recognised Recognised Balance 1 Jan 08 in income in equity 31 Dec 08 m m m m Plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 0.1 Intangible assets 0.7 0.4 0.3 Other receivables 0.2 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 2.3 2.3 Underwriting profits 34.1 5.0 39.1 Retirement benefit obligations 0.3 0.3 Tax losses 4.5 0.3 2.0 6.8 Net deferred income tax account 29.5 2.8 2.0 30.3 The group has recognised deferred tax assets on unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which unused tax losses can be utilised, as supported by financial projections.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Operating lease commitments The group leases land and buildings under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement.
The future minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable operating lease are as follows: 2009 2008 m m No later than 1 year 3.5 2.5 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 12.2 9.5 Later than 5 years 4.7 3.0 20.4 15.0 30 Related party transactions The group and company have related party relationships with syndicate 623, its subsidiaries, associates and its directors.
30.1 Syndicate 623 Beazley Furlonge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, received management fees and profit commissions for providing a range of management services to syndicate 623 in which the corporate member subsidiaries participated.
The value of the services provided and the balances with the syndicate are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Services provided: Syndicate 623 12.7 13.6 Balances due: Due from to syndicate 623 4.9 10.1 30.2 Key management compensation 2009 2008 m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 9.7 6.5 Post employment benefits 0.4 0.3 Share-based remuneration 2.6 2.3 12.7 9.1 Key management include executives and non-executive directors and other senior management.
Further details of directors shareholdings and remuneration can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to 69.
30.3 Other related party transactions At 31 December 2009, the group had a balance payable to the associate Falcon Money Management Limited of 0.1m 2008: nil and purchased services from the associate of 1.9m 2008: nil throughout the year.
All transactions with the associate and subsidiaries are priced on an arms length basis.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 31 Parent company and subsidiary undertakings Beazley plc is the ultimate parent and the ultimate controlling party within the group.
The following is a list of all the subsidiaries: Country of Ownership incorporation interest Nature of business Beazley Group Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Furlonge Holdings Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Furlonge Limited England 100% Lloyds underwriting agents BFHH Limited England 100% Dormant Beazley Investments Limited England 100% Investment company Beazley Corporate Member Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Dedicated No.
2 Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Global Two Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Management Limited England 100% Intermediate management company Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Solutions Limited England 100% Insurance services Beazley Corporate Member No.
2 England 100% Dormant Beazley Corporate Member No.
3 England 100% Dormant Deltaland Limited England 100% Dormant Beazley Finance Limited England 100% Intermediate holding company Beazley Dedicated Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Capital Management Limited England 100% Investment services Beazley Underwriting Services Limited England 100% Insurance services Beazley DAS Limited England 100% Dividend access scheme Beazley Re Limited Ireland 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Underwriting Proprietary Limited Australia 100% Insurance services Beazley USA Services, Inc. USA 100% Insurance services Beazley Holdings, Inc. USA 100% Holding company Beazley Group USA General Partnership USA 100% General partnership Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. USA 100% Underwrite admitted lines Beazley Limited Hong Kong 100% Insurance services Tasman Corporate Limited England 100% Underwriting at Lloyds Beazley Pte.
Limited Singapore 100% Underwriting at Lloyds 32 Contingencies 32.1 Funds at Lloyds The following amounts are subject to a deed of charge in favour of Lloyds to secure underwriting commitments: Underwriting Underwriting Underwriting year year year 2010 2009 2008 m m m Company Debt securities and other fixed income securities 492.2 494.4 360.8 492.2 494.4 360.8 32.2 Financial guarantee The parent company has provided a financial guarantee in favour of its subsidiary Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. which unconditionally guarantees the payment of amounts due to third party reinsurers in the event of the inability of the subsidiary company to meet its obligations.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Foreign exchange rates The group used the following exchange rates to translate foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenses into the groups presentation currency: 2009 2008 Average Year end spot Average Year end spot US dollar 1.57 1.61 1.85 1.44 Canadian dollar 1.78 1.69 1.96 1.77 Euro 1.12 1.13 1.26 1.03 34 Business combinations 34.1 Acquisition of business portfolio On 1 April, the group acquired an underwriting agent from Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. which specialises in US commercial property underwriting.
This business has now been integrated and forms a part of Beazleys core US operations and does not report results on an independent basis.
The acquisition had the following effect on the groups assets and liabilities: m Consideration paid Cash paid 21.1 Direct costs relating to the acquisition 0.8 Consideration paid 21.9 Fair value of net assets on acquisition Fixed assets 0.3 Other receivables 6.5 Other payables 5.9 Pipeline profits acquired 3.2 Contribution receivable from syndicate 623 4.6 Goodwill 13.2 Consideration paid 21.9 Other than the goodwill arising on acquisition, no other significant intangible assets formed part of the assets acquired.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements 34.2 Beazley Re Limited On 2 June 2009, the group acquired 100% of the share capital of Beazley Re Limited.
m Consideration paid Cash paid Direct costs relating to the acquisition 1.6 Consideration paid 1.6 Fair value of net assets on acquisition Fixed assets Other receivables Other payables Goodwill 1.6 Consideration paid 1.6 35 Events after the balance sheet date There are no events that are material to the operations of the group that have been announced since the balance sheet date.
