Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors have delegated responsibility to the Investment and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Manager for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to corporate and financial information included on the Investment prepare financial statements for each financial period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors, whose names are listed on page 16, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the Group as at the end of each financial year and of the profit the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of or loss of the Company and the Group for that period.
the Company and Group: and In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are the annual report includes a fair review of the development required to: and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
consistently: By order of the Board present information, including accounting policies, in a A W Lea manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Chairman understandable information: 18 February 2010 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
30 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
