Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
The principal activity of the subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
The other subsidiary, BlackRock Gold Limited, is no longer trading.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and Company are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Insofar as the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, revised in January 2009 is compatible with IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the SORP.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned trading subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, which are registered and operate in England and Wales.
c Presentation of the Consolidated Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and a capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Interest income and expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Option premium income is recognised as revenue and included in the revenue column of the Consolidated Income Statement unless the option has been written for the maintenance and enhancement of the Companys investment portfolio and represents an incidental part of a larger capital transaction, in which case any premia arising are allocated to the capital column of the Consolidated Income Statement.
f Expenses All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been treated as revenue except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of the investment.
Details of transaction costs on the purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in note 10 on page 43. expenses are treated as capital where a connnection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 37 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued g Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
h Investments held at fair value through profit or loss The Companys investments are classified as held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy.
All investments are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis.
The sale of assets are recognised at the trade date of the disposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial investments is based on their quoted bid price at the balance sheet date, without deduction for the estimated selling costs.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors at fair value based on recommendations from BlackRocks Pricing Committee and International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Guidelines.
This policy applies to non current asset investments held by the Group.
In order to improve the disclosure of how companies measure the fair value of their financial investments, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 7 have been extended to include a fair value hierarchy.
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data Under IFRS, the investments in the trading subsidiary are fair valued which is deemed to be the sum of the balance sheet values.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this heading are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments.
i Other receivables and other payables Other receivables and other payables do not carry any interest and are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value.
j Dividends payable Final dividends are only recognised after they have been approved by shareholders.
Special dividends are recognised when paid to shareholders.
k Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
l Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
38 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
