Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
The principal activity of the subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
The other subsidiary, BlackRock Gold Limited, is no longer trading.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and Company are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
Insofar as the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, revised in January 2009 is compatible with IFRS, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the SORP.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned trading subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, which are registered and operate in England and Wales.
c Presentation of the Consolidated Income Statement In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Income Statement between items of a revenue and a capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Income Statement.
In accordance with the Companys status as a UK investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, net capital returns may not be distributed by way of dividend.
d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Interest income and expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Option premium income is recognised as revenue and included in the revenue column of the Consolidated Income Statement unless the option has been written for the maintenance and enhancement of the Companys investment portfolio and represents an incidental part of a larger capital transaction, in which case any premia arising are allocated to the capital column of the Consolidated Income Statement.
f Expenses All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been treated as revenue except as follows: expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of the investment.
Details of transaction costs on the purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in note 10 on page 43. expenses are treated as capital where a connnection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 37
