Shareholder Information Financial calendar Share price The timing of the announcement and publication of the The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily Companys results may normally be expected in the months in The Financial Times under Investment Companies and in shown below: The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment Trusts.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock Investment February Management UK Limited BlackRock website at Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
Annual report and financial statements published.
ISIN SEDOL numbers The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the April Companys shares are: Annual General Meeting.
ISIN GB0005774855 SEDOL 0577485 August Reuters code BRWM.
L Bloomberg code BRWM LN Half yearly figures announced and half yearly financial report published.
Dividend 2009 Share dealing The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or 31 December 2009 is 4.75p per share.
sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through a stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Ex-dividend date For existing shareholders, the Companys registrar, shares transferred without the dividend 17 March 2010 Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet Record date last date for registering transfers and telephone share dealing services.
The telephone to receive the dividend 19 March 2010 share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
Last date for registering DRIP instructions 7 April 2010 To access the internet share dealing log on to Dividend payment date 28 April 2010 www-uk.
To use these services, you will need your shareholder Payment of dividends reference number, which is detailed on your share certificate.
Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also CREST be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom system for uncertificated securities trading.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates on 0870 707 1187 or by completing the Mandate Instructions and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are section on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and sending able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers prior to the introduction of CREST, although there may be will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, differences in dealing charges.
unless other instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
Electronic communications Computershare provides a service to enable shareholders to Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP receive correspondence electronically including annual and Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to half yearly financial reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend to receive documents in this way, paper documents will only be reinvestment forms may be obtained from Computershare available on request unless electronic submission fails, in Investor Services PLC on 0870 707 1187.
Shareholders who which case a hard copy will be mailed to the investors last have already opted to have their dividends reinvested do not known address.
The last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 7 April 2010.
Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed and printed.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 57 Shareholder Information continued For more information, to view the terms and conditions and to Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life of register for this service, please visit Computershares internet the Company for a further twelve months.
com investor you will need your shareholder reference number, which is given on your Nominee code share certificate or tax voucher.
Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company undertakes: Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of electronically via Computershares internet site at shareholder communications, so long as an indication of www.
com using their shareholder reference quantities has been provided in advance: number, control number and a unique identification PIN and SRN which will be provided with voting instructions and the to allow investors holding shares through a nominee Notice of Annual General Meeting.
company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: and CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings appointment service may do so by using the procedures Plan and ISA are automatically sent shareholder described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in the communications, including details of general meetings, notes on the Form of Proxy and the Notice of Annual General together with a form of direction to facilitate voting and to Meeting.
Risk factors Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys is also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
The price at which the Companys shares trade on the Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis London Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is value although they are related and therefore you may calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments and realise returns which are lower or higher than NAV performance being published monthly.
The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released A lack of growth in world industrial production may through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service adversely affect metal prices.
and are available on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may Service under the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly production potentially leading to price reductions.
There may be exposure to significant currency, political and Internet nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of Other details about the Company are also available companies in which the Company may invest.
on the BlackRock website at www.
co. uk its and shareholders can check details of their holdings on Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile Computershares website at and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
Any investment in the Company will involve an above The financial statements and other literature are published on average risk and is suitable only for financially the BlackRock website.
Visitors to the website need to be sophisticated investors.
aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
The value of your investment in the Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the Savings Plan underlying investments fluctuate.
The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly Duration of the Company investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like 58 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free on 0800 44 55 22.
Stocks and shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
From 6 October 2009, the over 50s are able to invest 10,200 into an ISA.
The annual allowance for savers under the age of 50 will remain 7,200 until the next tax year, which starts on 6 April 2010, when it will also increase to 10,200.
Details are available from BlackRock by calling free on 0800 44 55 22.
Shareholder enquiries The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, please contact the registrar on 0870 707 1187.
Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked through the Computershare investor centre website.
As a security check, specific information needs to be input accurately to gain access to an individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, available from either your share certificate or tax voucher.
The address of the Computershare website is www-uk.
General enquiries Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: The Secretary BlackRock World Mining Trust plc 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Telephone: 020 7743 2427 Enquiries about the Savings Plan and ISA should be directed to: Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited PO Box 9036 Chelmsford CM99 2XD Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 59
