54 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Responsibility Statement The following statement, which should be The Directors remain satisfied that the Group The statement from the Chairman and the read in conjunction with the Independent has adequate resources to continue in Chief Executive on pages 6 to 7 and 8 to 11 Auditors Report, is made with a view to business and, accordingly, that the Financial respectively and the Business Review on pages distinguishing for shareholders the respective Statements should be drawn up on a going 12 to 29, which form part of the Directors responsibilities of the Directors and the concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting Report, contain certain forward-looking auditors in relation to the Annual Report and policies consistently applied and supported statements with respect to the financial the Financial Statements contained within.
by reasonable and prudent judgements and condition, and results of, operations and estimates have been used in the preparation businesses of the Group.
These statements The Directors are responsible for preparing of these Financial Statements and applicable and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration accounting standards have been followed.
because they relate to events and depend Report and the Financial Statements in These policies and standards, for which the on circumstances that may occur in the accordance with applicable laws, and Directors accept responsibility, have been future.
There are a number of factors that International Financial Reporting Standards discussed with the auditors.
The Directors, could cause actual results or developments IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Company having prepared the Financial Statements, to differ materially from those expressed or law requires the Directors to prepare financial have requested the auditors to take whatever implied by these forward-looking statements statements for each financial year and to steps and to undertake whatever inspections and forecasts.
Forward-looking statements ensure these give a true and fair view of the they consider appropriate for the purpose and forecasts are based on the Directors state of affairs of the Company and the Group of giving their report.
current view and information known to them and of the profit or loss of the Group for at the date of this report.
The Directors do not that period.
The Directors have responsibility Disclosure of information to auditors make any undertaking to update or revise any for ensuring that the Group keeps proper Each Director has responsibility for ensuring forward-looking statements, whether as a accounting records which enable them to that, as far as he is aware, there is no relevant result of new information, future events or ensure the Financial Statements and Directors audit information of which the auditors are otherwise.
Nothing in this document should Remuneration Report comply with the unaware, and that he has taken all the steps be construed as a profit forecast.
Companies Act 2006 and as regards the that he ought to have taken to make himself Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the aware of any relevant audit information that The Financial Statements for the year ended IAS Regulations and are able to disclose with is, relevant to the preparation of the auditors 30 June 2009 are included in the Annual reasonable accuracy at any time the financial reports and to establish that the Groups Report 2009, which is published in hard copy position of the Company and the Group.
auditors are aware of that information.
form and made available on the Groups They are also responsible for taking reasonable This confirmation is given and should be website.
The Directors are responsible for steps to safeguard the assets of the Group interpreted in accordance with the provisions the maintenance and integrity of the Annual and to prevent and detect fraud and of the Companies Act 2006.
Report on the Groups website in accordance other irregularities.
with UK legislation governing the preparation Other disclosures and dissemination of Financial Statements.
The Directors are also required by the Pages 32 to 33 inclusive contain the Directors It should be noted that information published Disclosure and Transparency Rules of Report and pages 41 to 49 inclusive contain on the Internet is accessible in many the Financial Services Authority to include the Remuneration Report, both of which have countries, some of which have different legal a management report containing a fair been drawn up and presented in accordance requirements relating to the preparation review of the performance and development with and in reliance upon applicable English and dissemination of Financial Statements.
of the business and position of the Group company law, and the liabilities of the The work carried out by the auditors does and a description of the principal risks and Directors in connection with those reports not involve consideration of these matters uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
shall be subject to the limitations and and, accordingly, the auditors accept no restrictions provided by such law.
responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
By order of the Board James Brace Company Secretary 17 September 2009 F Fiin na anc nciia all St Sta at te em me ent nts s 55 56 Independent Auditors Report 58 Group Income Statement 59 Group Balance Sheet 60 Group Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 61 Group Cash Flow Statement 62 Significant Accounting Policies 67 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 88 Company Balance Sheet 89 Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 90 Company Cash Flow Statement 91 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
