BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued b Going concern As described in note 9, should the average 12 month discount at which the Shares of any class trade to their net asset value exceed 5% of net asset value per Share, the Company will be obliged to offer a continuation vote to the relevant class of shareholders.
The Company triggered its rolling 12 month discount floor provision for each Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Share classes, by reference to the final NAV as at 30 April 2009, 27 February 2009 and 31 March 2009, respectively, although it is not expected to trigger the discount provisions in 2010.
In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, continuation votes were proposed for all three classes of Shares by way of ordinary resolutions at separate class meetings held on 12 August 2009 and each continuation vote was passed.
The Company has adequate financial resources and as a consequence, the directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current economic climate.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Share issue costs The Share issue costs borne by the Company are recognised in the statement of changes in net assets attributable to shareholders, as the Companys Ordinary Shares have no fixed redemption date.
g Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits, short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
