BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: Ordinary Resolution: To be passed this type of resolution requires a simple majority of the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the Meeting to be voted in favour of the resolution.
Special Resolution: To be passed, this type of resolution requires that a majority of not less than three-quarters of all the votes cast by those shareholders voting in person or by proxy at the Meeting to be cast in favour of the resolution.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to speak and vote instead of them.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude members from attending or voting at the Meeting if they so wish.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The Form of Proxy should be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach the Companys agent, for this purpose being, Anson Registrars Limited, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1EJ, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the Meeting.
All persons recorded on the register of shareholders as holding shares in the Company as at 10.00 a. m. on 12 July 2010 or, if the Meeting is adjourned, as at 48 hours before the time of any adjourned Meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote either in person or by proxy at the Meeting and shall be entitled to one vote per share held.
Where there are joint registered holders of any shares such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such shares but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the person whose name stands first on the register of shareholders shall alone be entitled to vote.
Where there are joint participants in respect of any share such persons shall not have the right of voting individually in respect of such share but shall elect one of their number to represent them and to vote whether in person or by proxy in their name.
In default of such election the participant whose interests are first notified to the Company shall alone be entitled to vote.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy and a shareholder entitled to more than one vote need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Any corporation which is a shareholder may by resolution of its directors or other governing body authorise such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at the Meeting.
Any person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the corporation which he represents the same powers other than to appoint a proxy as that corporation could exercise if it were an individual shareholder.
None of the Directors has a Contract of Service with the Company.
82 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company 83 Do not affix Postage Stamps if posting in Gt.
Britain, Channel Islands or N. Ireland THIRD FOLD AND TUCK IN BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
GU 170 Anson Registrars Limited PO Box 426 Anson Place Mill Court La Charroterie St Peter Port Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 3WX SECOND FOLD FIRST FOLD
