BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued a Price Risk continued If the net asset value of AllBlue had been 10% lower with all other variables held constant, the net assets attributable to shareholders for the year would have been 43,976,086 2008: 28,141,240 lower, arising due to the decrease in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The sensitivity is higher in 2009 than in 2008 because of an increase in the net financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at the statement of financial position date.
b Credit Risk The nature of commercial arrangements made in the normal course of business between many prime brokers and custodians means that in the case of any one prime broker or custodian defaulting on its obligations to AllBlue or any of the underlying funds, the effects of such a default may have negative effects on other prime brokers with whom AllBlue or such underlying fund deals.
The underlying funds and, by extension, AllBlue and the Company may, therefore be exposed to systemic risk when AllBlue or an underlying fund deals with prime brokers and custodians whose creditworthiness may be interlinked.
The assets of AllBlue and the underlying funds may be pledged as margin with prime brokers or other counterparties or held with prime brokers or banks.
In the event of the default of any of these prime brokers, banks or counterparties, AllBlue or the underlying funds may not receive back all or any of the assets pledged or held with the defaulting party.
The maximum credit risk to which the Company was exposed at the year end was 440,591,790 2008: 282,292,472.
The main concentration of risk for the Company relates to the investments in AllBlue, as these are the only investments the Company has.
c Liquidity Risk In some circumstances, investments may be relatively illiquid making it difficult to acquire or dispose of them at the prices quoted on the various exchanges.
Accordingly, an underlying funds ability to respond to market movements may be impaired and, consequently, the underlying fund may experience adverse price movements upon liquidation of its investments which may in turn affect the value of AllBlue and hence the Companys investment in AllBlue.
Settlement of transactions may be subject to delay and administrative formalities.
71 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued c Liquidity Risk continued There can be no assurance that the liquidity of the investments of AllBlue and the underlying funds will always be sufficient to meet redemption requests as, and when, made.
Any such lack of liquidity may affect the ability of the Company to realise its shares in AllBlue and the value of Shares in the Company.
For such reasons AllBlues treatment of redemption requests may be deferred in exceptional circumstances including if a lack of liquidity may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value and the net asset value per share in AllBlue.
This in turn would limit the ability of the directors to realise the Companys investments in AllBlue should they consider it appropriate to do so and may result in difficulties in determining the net asset value of a Share in the Company.
The market prices, if any, for such illiquid investments tend to be volatile and may not be readily ascertainable and the relevant underlying fund may not be able to sell them when it desires to do so or to realise what it perceives to be their fair value in the event of a sale.
The size of the underlying funds positions may magnify the effect of a decrease in market liquidity for such instruments.
Changes in overall market leverage, deleveraging as a consequence of a decision by the counterparties with which the underlying funds enter into repurchase reverse repurchase agreements or derivative transactions, to reduce the level of leveraging, or the liquidation by other market participants of the same or similar positions, may also adversely affect the underlying funds portfolios.
The sale of restricted and illiquid securities often requires more time and results in higher brokerage charges or dealer discounts and other selling expenses than does the sale of securities eligible for trading on national securities exchanges or in the over-the-counter markets.
The underlying funds may not be able readily to dispose of such illiquid investments and, in some cases, may be contractually prohibited from disposing of such investments for a specified period of time.
Restricted securities may sell at a price lower than similar securities that are not subject to restrictions on resale.
The Companys Shares in issue are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Main Market for Listed Securities the LSE.
However, in certain circumstances there may be a limited market for the Shares and it may not be possible for investors to achieve a disposal of their holding within a short time period or for the investor to realise the full anticipated value of the Shares.
