BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited - FORM OF PROXY Registered in Guernsey No.
44704 FOR USE BY HOLDERS OF SHARES AT THE GENERAL MEETING OF BLUECREST ALLBLUE FUND LIMITED THE COMPANY CONVENED FOR WEDNESDAY, 14 JULY 2010 AT 10.00 A. M. AT ANSON PLACE, MILL COURT, LA CHARROTERIE, ST PETER PORT, GUERNSEY GY1 1EJ AND AT ANY ADJOURNMENT THEREOF: I We.
Block Capitals being a shareholder s of the Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting or.. as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the general meeting of the Company the Meeting to be held on Wednesday 14 July 2010 at 10.00 a. m. and at any adjournment thereof.
Note: If it is desired to appoint as proxy any person other than the Chairman of the Meeting, his her name and address should be inserted in the relevant place and reference to the Chairman of the meeting deleted and the alteration initialled.
I WE direct the proxy to vote on the Resolutions as follows: Ordinary Resolutions FOR AGAINST WITHHELD 1.
To receive the annual financial report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Dodd a director.
To resolve as an ordinary resolution that the Company be authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of no par value each, whether denominated in Sterling, Euros or US Dollars, Shares on the terms set out in the notice of meeting.
Special Resolution FOR AGAINST WITHHELD 5.
THAT the pre-emption rights granted to shareholders pursuant to article 12 2 of the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles be disapplied in respect of up to 500,000,000 Shares on the terms set out in the notice of meeting.
Please indicate with an X in the appropriate space how you wish your vote to be cast.
On receipt of the form duly executed and in the absence of a specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he or she thinks fit on the resolutions.
If the shareholder is a Corporation, this form must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its duly authorised officer or attorney.
In the case of joint members, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person, or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of shareholders in respect of the joint holding.
Any alterations to this form of proxy should be initialled by the person who signs it.
The form of proxy should be sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Anson Registrars Limited, P. O.
Box 426, Anson Place, Mill Court, La Charroterie, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY13WX not later than 10.00 a. m. on 12 July 2010.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending in person at the meeting and voting should he or she so wish.
In the event that a form of proxy is returned without an indication as to how the proxy shall vote on the resolutions, the proxy will exercise his discretion as to whether and, if so, how he votes.
A shareholder entitled to exercise more than one vote need not cast all his or her votes in the same way.
