BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements are presented in GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: - IFRS 8 Operating Segments - IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements - Amendments to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments This standard requires disclosure of information about the Companys operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Company.
For management reporting purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determine that this operating segment was the same as the business segment previously identified under IAS 14 Segment Reporting being investment in three Share classes of a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements The standard replaces IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised in 2003 as amended in 2005.
The revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements was issued in September 2007 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss, together with all other items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Company chose to present one single statement of comprehensive income.
48 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued a Basis of preparation continued Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
Amendments to IFRS 7 were issued by the International Accounting Standards Board in March 2009, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment to IFRS 7 requires fair value to be disclosed by the source of inputs, using a three-level hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2 : Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3.
In addition, the amendments revise specified minimum liquidity risk disclosures including: the contractual maturity of non derivative financial liabilities, and a description of how this is managed.
In the first year of application, comparative information is not required.
The following Standards or Interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board but not yet adopted by the Company: IFRS 2 revised June 2009 Share-based Payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 IAS 24 revised November 2009 Related Party Disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 IAS 32 revised 2009 Financial Instruments Presentation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement amendments for eligible hedged items effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
