BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued h Investments All investments are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are initially recognised on the date of purchase on trade date basis at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, excluding transaction costs associated with the investment, with unrealised gains and losses on investments arising from change in fair value of investments from prior years is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Realised gains or losses are determined on the disposal of investments and are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In order to assess the fair value of unquoted investments the net asset value of the underlying investment in AllBlue Limited is taken into consideration.
The Companys net asset value is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the net asset value and the net asset value per Share of the Company, the Administrator considers the net asset values of the shares in AllBlue Limited supplied by the administrator of AllBlue Limited.
Those net asset values are based on the market value of the various investments held by AllBlue Limited.
i Foreign currency translation The financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the Statement of Financial Position date.
All differences are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on currency aggregation due to translation of foreign currency balances to presentation currency are taken to the Other Comprehensive Income.
j Shares Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Shares and C Shares have been reclassified as liabilities in accordance with IAS 32 because of the provisions contained in the Companys articles of association as described in note 9.
The directors have been advised that this treatment does not result in the Shares being treated as a liability for the purpose of applying the solvency test set out in Section 527 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
