BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2009 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements are presented in GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: - IFRS 8 Operating Segments - IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements - Amendments to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments This standard requires disclosure of information about the Companys operating segments and replaces the requirement to determine primary business and secondary geographical reporting segments of the Company.
For management reporting purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determine that this operating segment was the same as the business segment previously identified under IAS 14 Segment Reporting being investment in three Share classes of a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
IAS 1 Revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements The standard replaces IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised in 2003 as amended in 2005.
The revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements was issued in September 2007 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss, together with all other items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Company chose to present one single statement of comprehensive income.
