BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2009 14 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued e Leverage by Underlying Funds Certain underlying funds in which the Company may have an economic interest operate with a substantial degree of leverage and are not limited in the extent to which they either may borrow or engage in margin transactions.
The positions maintained by such underlying funds may in aggregate value be in excess of the net asset value of AllBlue.
This leverage presents the potential for a higher rate of total return but will also increase the volatility of AllBlue and, as a consequence, the Company, including the risk of a total loss of the amount invested.
f Capital management The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with consistent long-term capital growth through an investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets in AllBlue or any successor vehicle to AllBlue.
As the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the LSE, the Ordinary Shares may trade at a discount to their net asset value.
However, in structuring the Company, the directors have given detailed consideration to the discount risk and how this may be managed.
At the last general meeting held pursuant to section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law, the directors were granted authority to buy back up to 14.99 per cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Companys authority to make purchases of its own issued Ordinary Shares will expire at the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company to be held pursuant to section 199 of the Law and renewal of such authority will be sought at that next general meeting.
The timing of any purchases will be decided by the Board.
The directors intend that purchases will only be made pursuant to this authority through the market, for cash, at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share where the directors reasonably believe such purchases will be of material benefit to the Company.
Following approval of the Court in Guernsey, the Company resolved to cancel the amount standing to the credit of its share premium account following Admission.
The amount released on cancellation has been credited as a distributable reserve in the books of account and may be used by the Company for the purpose of funding purchases of its Ordinary Shares as described above and the payment of dividends.
The Companys authorised share capital is such that further issues of new Ordinary Shares could be made.
Subject to prevailing market conditions, the Board may decide to make one or more further such issues or reissues of Ordinary Shares for cash from time to time.
Any further issues of new Ordinary Shares or reissues of Ordinary Shares held in treasury will rank pari passu with Ordinary Shares in issue.
