BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE INVESTMENT MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued Emerging Markets Emerging Markets EM contributed 4.57% to AllBlue Limited during 2009, with the fund returning a strong 33.95% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
In 2009, the portfolio managers have demonstrated a keen ability to extract value in a range of risk environments for EM assets.
Starting the year with a bearish view on EM, they were profitably able to capitalize on sell-offs in sovereign credit and currencies.
As the overall environment changed and global risk conditions improved in Q2 on the back of G20 support for EM countries, the team continued to generate returns by focusing on monetary policy cycles in EM, as well as intra EM sovereign credit RV positions.
In local interest rates, the easing cycles in EM countries lagged those in developed markets and central banks indicated an end or pause during Q3 in their long cutting cycles Brazil, Turkey, Mexico, Russia, which the team was able to capture.
Curve steepening rallies in CEEMEA region, also added to the years positive returns.
As global credit markets continued to recover in 2009, our long position in Argentina government bonds benefited from it with credit spreads further tightening.
Multi Strategy Credit Relative Value Multi Strategy Credit Relative Value contributed 1.97% to AllBlue Limited during 2009, with the fund returning 13.11% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
The engine of that performance was Long Short 17.79%, which returned positively in every month of the year.
It reflects that 2009 was a year for the fundamental credit investor, and hence within our own fund the more technical, arbitrage-driven strategies all struggled for a foothold.
The Volatility -0.57% and Index Arbitrage 0.25% strategies were effectively mothballed in anticipation of that trend.
The Correlation strategy -4.05%, which had been such an important driver of performance in 2007 and 2008, struggled more from a complete absence of liquidity in structured credit markets at the start of the year, but we were able eventually to reduce significantly the legacy positions.
