Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors Responsibility Statement the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: regulations.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have whole: and also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors Report together with the information provided in the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied Executive Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and the that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Operating and Financial Review, includes a fair review of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
development and performance of the business and the In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Standard 1 requires that Directors: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of properly select and apply accounting policies: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner By order of the Board that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and J Matheson Robin Bayford financial performance: and Executive Chairman Finance Director 1 December 2009 make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
