Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the such steps as are reasonably open to them to Annual Report and the financial statements in safeguard the assets of the Company and to accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors financial statements for each financial year.
Under are also responsible for preparing a Directors that law they have elected to prepare the financial Report including a Business Review, a Directors statements in accordance with UK Accounting Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Standards.
The financial statements are required by Statement.
law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of the Company and of the profit or loss of the and integrity of the corporate and financial Company for that period.
information included on the Companys website.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies and then legislation in other jurisdictions.
apply them consistently: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the financial statements, prepared in accordance state whether applicable UK Accounting with the applicable set of accounting standards, Standards have been followed, subject to any give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, material departures disclosed and explained in financial position and profit of the Company: and the financial statements: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review prepare the financial statements on the going of the development and performance of the concern basis unless it is inappropriate to business and the position of the Company presume that the Company will continue in together with a description of the principal risks business.
and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable On behalf of the Board accuracy at any time the financial position of the W R E Thomson Company and enable them to ensure that its Chairman financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking 13 November 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
