Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting company will be able to change its name by other Summary of the Proposed Material means provided for by its articles of association.
To Changes to the Articles of take advantage of this provision, the New Articles Association of the Company enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change The principal changes which will arise from the the Companys name.
adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
The Companys Memorandum of Association Authorised Share Capital and Unissued Shares The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys company to have an authorised share capital.
The Company is proposing changes to its Articles to memorandum and articles of association.
The memorandum contains, among other things, the reflect this.
The Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
allotment authority continues to be required under the 2006 Act.
The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The 2006 Act provides Issue of Redeemable Shares that a memorandum will record only the names of The New Articles will explicitly confer authority on subscribers and the number of shares each the Board to determine the terms, conditions and subscriber has agreed to take in a company.
Under manner of redemption of any issued redeemable the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other shares in accordance with the 2006 Act, although provisions which are currently contained in a this amendment would only have practical effect if companys memorandum, for existing companies at the Company issues redeemable shares in the 1 October 2009, will be deemed to be contained in future.
a companys articles but a company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Chairmans Casting Vote In addition, the 2006 Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys Provisions in the current Articles giving the Chairman objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for a casting vote at shareholders meetings became companies to have objects clauses.
The Company is ineffective from 1 October 2007, but companies with therefore proposing to remove its objects clause a casting vote provision in their articles on that date together with all other provisions of its memorandum were, broadly, allowed to keep it.
However, the which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are otherwise EU Shareholders Rights Directive requires that all treated as forming part of the Articles as of shareholders be treated equally and therefore The 1 October 2009.
Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 remove this saving provisions for UK traded Change of Name companies such that the casting vote provision in Previously, a company could only change its name the Companys Articles became redundant on by special resolution.
56 British Assets Trust plc Corporate Information Directors Brokers William R E Thomson, Chairman Cenkos Securities Limited James M Long, TD 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard ` James S MacLeod London EC2R 7AS Dr Christopher Masters, CBE Lynn C Ruddick Solicitors I S M Russell, CBE Dickson Minto WS James G West 16 Charlotte Square Edinburgh EH2 4DF Company Secretary Gordon R Hay Smith, CA Bankers JPMorgan Chase Bank Investment Managers 125 London Wall F&C Investment Business Limited London EC2Y 5AJ 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Company Number SC 3721 Auditors Ernst & Young LLP 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF Chairman of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee ` Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Independent Director MLG Edinburgh 3564 Registered Office 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU Tel: 0207 628 8000 Fax: 0131 225 2375 Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars Shareholder Helpline: 0871 384 2462 Registrars Broker Helpline: 0871 384 2779 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
Calls to this number are charged at 1 per minute from a BT landline.
