Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or Twelfth Annual General Meeting of British Assets extended by the Company in a general Trust Public Limited Company will be held at meeting, save that the Company may at any 80 George Street, Edinburgh on Thursday time prior to the expiry of this authority make 17 December 2009 at 12 noon for the following an offer or enter into an agreement which purposes: would or might require Securities to be allotted or granted after the expiry of such authority and Ordinary Business the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Securities in pursuance of such an offer or Ordinary Resolutions: agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That the Report and Accounts for the year To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as ended 30 September 2009 be received.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2009 be approved.
That, subject to the passing of resolution number 8 above, and in substitution for any 3.
That a final dividend of 1.786 pence per existing power but without prejudice to the Ordinary Share be declared.
exercise of any such power prior to the date 4.
That Mr J S MacLeod, who retires annually, be hereof, the Directors of the Company be and re-elected as a Director.
they are hereby generally empowered, pursuant 5.
That Mr J G West, who retires annually, be to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the re-elected as a Director.
Act, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of 6.
That Mr J M Long, who retires periodically, be rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities re-elected as a Director.
into ordinary shares held by the Company as 7.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of Auditors and the Directors be authorised to the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given determine their remuneration.
by resolution number 8 above as if Section 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such but without prejudice to the exercise of any allotment of equity securities, provided that this such authority prior to the date hereof, the power: Directors of the Company be and are hereby a expires at the conclusion of the next annual generally and unconditionally authorised in general meeting of the Company after the accordance with Section 551 of the Companies passing of this resolution or on the expiry of Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers 15 months from the passing of this of the Company to allot shares in the Company resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that and to grant rights to subscribe for or to the Company may, before such expiry, convert any security into shares in the make an offer or agreement which would or Company Securities provided that such might require equity securities to be allotted authority shall be limited to the allotment of after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares and the grant of rights in respect of equity securities in pursuance of any such shares with an aggregate nominal value of up offer or agreement as if the power conferred to 7,277,807, such authority to expire at the hereby had not expired: and conclusion of the next annual general meeting b shall be limited to the allotment of equity of the Company after the passing of this securities up to an aggregate nominal value resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from 3,638,903 being approximately of 5 per the passing of this resolution, whichever is the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued cent of the nominal value of the issued into a contract to purchase ordinary shares share capital of the Company, as at under such authority which will or might be 13 November 2009. completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may 10.
That, in substitution for any existing authority make a purchase of ordinary shares but without prejudice to the exercise of any pursuant to any such contract.
such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and Special Business unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as accordance with section 701 of the Companies a Special Resolution: Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act 11.
That: of fully paid ordinary shares of 25 pence each in a the articles of association of the Company the capital of the Company ordinary shares be amended by deleting all of the provisions either for retention as treasury shares for future of the Companys memorandum of reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation, association which, by virtue of Section 28 of provided that: the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary as part of the Companys articles of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is association: 43,637,731: b the articles of association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions b the minimum price excluding expenses referred to in paragraph 42 of schedule 2 of which may be paid for each ordinary share the Companies Act 2006 Commencement is 25 pence: No 8, Transitional Provisions and Savings c the maximum price excluding expenses Order 2008 Statutory Instrument 2008 No.
which may be paid for each ordinary share 2860 : and shall not be more than the higher of: c the draft regulations produced to the i 5 per cent above the average closing meeting and, for the purposes of price on the London Stock Exchange of identification, initialled by the Chairman of an ordinary share over the five business the meeting be adopted as the articles of days immediately preceding the date of association of the Company in substitution purchase: and for, and to the entire exclusion of, the existing articles of association of the ii the higher of the last independent trade Company.
and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and By order of the Board d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the Company in a general meeting, the G R Hay Smith authority hereby conferred shall expire at the Secretary conclusion of the Companys next annual 80 George Street general meeting or on 17 June 2011 Edinburgh EH2 3BU whichever is the later, save that the 13 November 2009 Company may, prior to such expiry, enter 54 British Assets Trust plc Manual and by logging on to www.
Notes CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored 1.
A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the above members, and those CREST members who have appointed a meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the of the Company.
appropriate action on their behalf.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the above meeting.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in be effective, the form of proxy, duly executed, must be lodged accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds at the address shown on the form of proxy i by 12 noon on specifications, and must contain the information required for 15 December 2009 or, ii in respect of an adjourned meeting, such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment holding of that adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a taken subsequent to the date of the meeting or an adjourned previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar the taking of the poll.
ID RA19 no later 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the holders of Ordinary Shares entered on the Register of CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar Members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 15 December is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Register of Members 48 hours excluding non-working days instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to communicated to the appointee through other means.
attend, speak or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their names at that time.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Changes to the entries on the Register of Members after 6.00 sponsors, or voting service providers should note that pm on 15 December 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special adjourned, on the Register of Members 48 hours excluding procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal non-working days before the time of any adjourned meeting, system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility attend, speak or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST provisions in any enactment, the Articles of Association of the member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, Company or other instrument to the contrary.
or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such 4.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST 5.
The members of the Company may require the Company to Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system publish, on its website without payment, a statement which and timings.
is also passed to the Companys auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, 11.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Company will be required to do so once it has received such Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. requests from either members representing at least 5 per cent of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 12.
A copy of the Articles of Association of the Company as members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in proposed to be adopted with effect from the passing of the Company on which there has been paid up an average resolution 11 will be available for inspection at Royal London sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be House, 22-25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and at the made in writing and must state your full name and address registered office of the Company from the date of this notice and be sent to 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU.
until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on the date of the Annual General Meeting 15 minutes prior to the 6.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including start until the conclusion of the meeting.
information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from www.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for 15 minutes 7.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company prior to, and during the Annual General Meeting.
must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting 14.
As at 5.00 pm on 13 November 2009 being the latest unless: applicable date prior to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 291,112,282 a answering the question would interfere unduly with the Ordinary Shares of 25p each.
Every Member holding Ordinary preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of Shares shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share held by confidential information: them and therefore the total number of voting rights in the b the answer has already been given on a website in the Company at 5.00 pm on 13 November 2009 was 291,112,282. form of an answer to a question: or 15.
Members who have general queries about the Annual General c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the Meeting should not use any electronic address to good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
communicate with the Company but should call the 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Companys registrars on 0871 384 2462.
Calls to this number through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other do so by using the procedures described in the CREST telephony provider costs may vary.
