British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Appendix SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE its Memorandum.
"ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF BRITISH EMPIRE SECURITIES Authorised share capital and unissued shares AND GENERAL TRUST PLC THE ""COMPANY"" The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital."
To reflect this abolition, the New Articles do not include any reference A summary of the material amendments to the Company's current to the maximum number of shares that the Company may allot, or Articles of Association, in relation to the final commencements of any references to authorised share capital or to unissued shares.
"the Companies Act 2006 the ""2006 Act"", is set out below."
"The Articles of Association proposed to be adopted at the AGM in Despite the abolition of the concept of authorised share capital, substitution for the Company's existing Articles are referred to the Company's Directors will still be required to obtain the usual below as the ""New Articles""."
Shareholder authorisation in order to allot shares.
This Appendix does not summarise non-material changes Redeemable shares and, in particular, it does not summarise changes of a minor or Under the 2006 Act, a company's articles of association need not technical nature.
include the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
A company's directors may determine the terms, conditions and A copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection at the manner of redemption of redeemable shares provided that they registered office of the Company and at the offices of Herbert are authorised to do so by the company's articles of association.
Smith LLP at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A The New Articles contain an authorisation for the redemption of 2HS during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, redeemable shares.
The Company currently has no plans to issue Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice redeemable shares but, should those plans change, the Directors of the AGM until the conclusion of the AGM, and at the venue of would require shareholder authority to issue new shares in the the Annual General Meeting from 11.30 a. m. until the conclusion usual way.
The proposed New Articles will also be available for inspection at any time on the Companys website: Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital www.
Under the 2006 Act, a public company no longer requires specific General authorisation in its articles of association to purchase its own The New Articles will, if adopted, enable the Company to comply shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares or to reduce its with and take full advantage of the deregulations contained in the share capital.
However, shareholder authority is still required.
provisions of the 2006 Act and the Companies Shareholders' The New Articles include provisions to reflect these changes.
"Rights Regulations 2009 the ""Shareholders' Rights RegulaTransfer of shares tions""."
Under the 2006 Act, share transfers must be registered as soon Resolution 11 is to approve the adoption of the New Articles.
as possible and the Company is not entitled to close its register.
However, the Company's existing Articles of Association allow the Provisions of the Company's memorandum of association Company to suspend the registration of transfers of shares and to The 2006 Act reduces the constitutional importance of the close the register for a period not exceeding 30 days in any one year.
Company's Memorandum of Association.
This provision has been removed in the New Articles.
The Company's constitution is currently contained in both its Memorandum of Association and its Articles of Association.
Shareholder participation in meetings at different places and by electronic means Since 1 October 2009, the objects clause and all other provisions in the Memorandum have automatically been treated as part of In order to comply with the Shareholders' Rights Regulations, the Articles of Association.
The Memorandum now simply records the New Articles contain provisions which allow shareholders to the names of the subscribers and the number of shares which participate in meetings not only by attendance at satellite meeting each subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
The provisions locations but also by other electronic means of participation.
in the Articles of Association which were formerly part of the Votes of members Memorandum can be removed by special resolution.
The Shareholders' Rights Regulations clarify the various powers of A company's objects will now be unrestricted unless its articles of proxies and representatives of corporate members in respect of association provide otherwise.
The Company is therefore proposing resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a proxy has been to remove its objects clause from its Articles of Association, duly appointed by one member, he has one vote on a show of together with all other provisions that were formerly included in hands.
However, if he has been appointed by more than one 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 member to vote for the resolution and by more than one member be considered or voted on at the same meeting.
This is a to vote against the resolution, the proxy has only one vote for and clarificatory amendment in line with best practice guidance one vote against the resolution.
The New Articles contain received by the Board.
provisions which clarify these rights.
Notices and other communication Voting record date The New Articles include a provision permitting the Company at any The New Articles include a new provision allowing the Company, time and at its sole discretion to choose to send or supply notices, when convening a meeting, to specify a time not more than 48 documents and information only in hard copy form to some or all hours before the time of the meeting excluding any part of the shareholders.
This is to cater for situations where the provision of day that is not a working day, by which a person must be entered corporate information in electronic form or via a website may on the register of shareholders in order to have the right to amount to a breach of the securities laws of another jurisdiction.
attend or vote at the meeting.
This new provision is in line with a Board minutes requirement for listed companies introduced by the Shareholders' The 2006 Act requires board minutes to be retained for at least Rights Regulations.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Validity of votes Change of name Following the implementation of the Shareholders' Rights Under the 2006 Act, a company can now change its name by Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance means provided for by its articles of association.
Previously, a with instructions given to them by members.
The New Articles company could only change its name by special resolution.
The contain a provision stating that the Company is not required to New Articles include a provision designed to take advantage of enquire whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in this flexibility.
accordance with instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has Form of resolution not voted in accordance with his instructions.
"The 2006 Act has abolished the concept of ""extraordinary"" resolutions and general meetings."
Accordingly, the New Articles Termination of proxy authority do not include references to such resolutions or meetings.
"In accordance with the Shareholders' Rights Regulations, the Meetings of shareholders other than annual general meetings New Articles include a provision providing that the termination of are referred to simply as ""general meetings"" in the New Articles."
a proxy's authority should be in writing.
Chairman's casting vote Alternate directors Pursuant to the Shareholders' Rights Regulations, a traded The New Articles include a provision which makes it clear that company is no longer permitted to allow the chairman a casting an alternate director is subject to the same restrictions as the vote in the event of an equality of votes.
Accordingly, the New Director who appointed him.
This is a clarificatory amendment Articles do not provide for the Chairman to have a casting vote.
in line with best practice guidance received by the Board.
Stock Provisions for employees on cessation or transfer of business The Company's current Articles of Association provide that the The 2006 Act stipulates that the powers of directors to make Company may, by ordinary resolution, convert any fully paid shares provision for a person employed or formerly employed by a into stock and re-convert any stock into fully paid up shares.
The company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the New Articles reflect the 2006 Act, which abolishes the power to cessation or transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking of convert shares into stock.
that company or its subsidiary may only be exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the company's articles or Permitted interests and voting by the company in a general meeting.
The New Articles allow a Director to vote on a resolution giving him an indemnity or funding for expenditure incurred in defending The New Articles include a provision granting the Directors proceedings, provided that all other Directors have been given or this power.
are to be given arrangements on substantially the same terms.
Quorum for board meetings This is in line with best practice guidance received by the Board.
The New Articles contain a provision which states that a Director cannot be counted in the quorum in relation to a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled to vote, but that he may be counted in the quorum for the other matters or resolutions to 59
