Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Twentieth agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had Annual General Meeting of British Empire Securities and not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously General Trust plc will be held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, granted to the Directors to allot ordinary shares be and London EC2R 8AD at 12.00 noon on Thursday 17 December are hereby revoked.
2009 to consider the following business: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as Ordinary Business Special Resolutions: 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 9.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8 above, the 2009 together with the Reports of the Directors and Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally the Auditors.
authorised and empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity 2.
To approve a final Ordinary Dividend of 4.20 pence per securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act including Ordinary Share.
the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into, Ordinary Shares in the capital of the 3.
To approve a Special Dividend for the year of 1.25 pence Company ordinary shares and the sale of ordinary per Ordinary Share.
shares held by the Company in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to any existing authority given in accordance with 4.
To re-elect Mr Strone Macpherson as a Director of Section 551 of the Act, as if Section 561 of the Act did not the Company.
apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 5.
To re-elect Mr Steven Bates as a Director of the Company.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with 6.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the ordinary shares on the register of members of the Auditors remuneration.
Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings of 7.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report.
ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or Special Business expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising Ordinary Resolution: under the laws of, or the requirements of, any territory or any regulatory or governmental body or authority or stock 8.
THAT, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby exchange: and generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company value of 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or to equity share capital currently in issue: and such authority shall convert any security into ordinary shares in the Company up expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the to a maximum of 23,996,005 ordinary shares provided that Company to be held in 2010, save that the Company may such authority shall expire on the date which is 18 months before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at or might require equity securities to be allotted after such the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in Company in 2010, save that the Company may before such pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power expiry make offers or agreements which would or might conferred hereby had not expired.
require ordinary shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after such expiry and the Directors may allot ordinary shares, or grant such rights, in pursuance of such offers or 55 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 10.
THAT, the Company be and is hereby generally and By Order of the Board unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of TR Smith Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 10p each for and on behalf of in the capital of the Company ordinary shares either for Phoenix Administration Services Limited cancellation or to hold as treasury shares within the Secretary meaning of Section 724 of the Act provided that: Springfield Lodge, a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby Colchester Road, authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005: Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW 16 November 2009 b the Directors be authorised to determine at their discretion that any ordinary shares purchased be cancelled or held by the Company as treasury shares save that the maximum Notes number of ordinary shares held in treasury shall not exceed 1.
Attending the Annual General Meeting in person 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the If you wish to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, you Company at any time: should sign the attendance card enclosed with this document and hand it to the Companys registrars on arrival at the Annual c the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be General Meeting.
10 pence exclusive of associated expenses : 2.
Appointment of Proxy d the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at the of the middle market quotations of the Ordinary Shares Annual General Meeting.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding represent a shareholder.
To be validly appointed a proxy must be the date on which the relevant share is contracted to be appointed using the procedure set out in these notes and in the purchased exclusive of associated expenses : and notes to the accompanying proxy form.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting you e unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the Chairman of hereby conferred shall expire on the date which is 18 the Annual General Meeting and instruct that person accordingly.
months after the date of the passing of this resolution save that the Company may prior to such expiry enter into a Shareholders can only appoint more than one proxy where each contract or arrangement to purchase Ordinary Shares proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
under this authority which will or may be completed or Shareholders cannot appoint more than one proxy to exercise the executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority rights attached to the same shares.
A shareholder who wishes to and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to appoint more than one proxy, should contact Equiniti Limited, the any such contract or arrangement as if the authority Company's Registrars, whose details are set out on the inside hereby conferred had not expired.
THAT, the Articles of Association produced to the meeting Shareholders may instruct their proxy to abstain from voting on and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the any resolution by marking the vote withheld option when purpose of identification, be approved and adopted as the appointing their proxy.
It should be noted that an abstention is Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the and to the exclusion of, the existing Memorandum and proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
The return Articles of Association.
of a completed proxy form or other instrument of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person.
56 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 A person who is not a shareholder but who has been nominated 7.
Questions and Answers by a shareholder to enjoy information rights does not have a right Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the to appoint a proxy under the procedures set out in these notes - Company must provide an answer to any question which is put see note 6.
by a member attending the AGM relating to the business being considered, except if a response would not be in the interest of the 3.
Appointment of Proxy using a Proxy Form Company or for the good order of the meeting or if to do so would A proxy form for voting on the resolutions to be proposed at the involve the disclosure of confidential information.
The Company Annual General Meeting is enclosed.
To be valid any proxy form or may however elect to provide an answer to a question, within a other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of reasonable period of days after the conclusion of the AGM.
attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be received by post or during normal business 8.
Information on the Companys website hours only by hand at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA no later than 48 hours contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of before the time of the Annual General Meeting or any shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting adjournment of that meeting.
rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received 4.
Appointment of Proxy by Joint Shareholders by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on In the case of joint shareholders, where more than one of the joint the Companys website www.
co. uk shareholders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint shareholders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint shareholding, with the first named being the most senior.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on 15 December 2009 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00 p. m. on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Nominated Persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between such person and the shareholder nominating such person, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise such right, the Nominated Person may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
