The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 117th Annual General as a Special Resolution: Meeting of The City of London Investment Trust plc 10 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities and the Company will be held at 201 Bishopsgate, London subject to the passing of resolution 9 the directors EC2M 3AE, on Thursday 15 October 2009 at 3.00 pm for be empowered pursuant to section 570 and or the transaction of the following: section 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning Ordinary Business of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the authority conferred by resolution 9 as if section Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 561 of the Act did not apply to the allotment and 30 June 2009. to sell relevant shares within the meaning of section 560 of the Act held by the Company 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for immediately before the sale as treasury shares as the year ended 30 June 2009. defined in section 724 of the Act for cash as if 3 To re-elect Miss Anita Frew as a director of the section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such Company.
This power: 4 To re-elect Mr Simon fide Zoete as a director of the a expires at the end of the next Annual General Company.
Meeting of the Company in 2010, but the Company may make an offer or agreement which 5 To re-elect Sir Keith Stuart as a director of the would or might require equity securities to be Company.
allotted after expiry of this power and the 6 To elect Mr David Brief as a director of the Company.
directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and 7 To confirm the appointment of  LLP as auditor to the b shall be limited to allotments of equity securities Company.
and or the sale of shares held in treasury for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 8 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors 2,607,747 being 5 per cent.
ordinary share capital at the date of this notice.
Special Business as a Special Resolution: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following 11 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in resolutions: accordance with section 701 of the Companies as an Ordinary Resolution: Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases 9 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of directors be generally and unconditionally authorised ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 Company Ordinary Shares, provided that: the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares meaning of section 551 up to an aggregate nominal hereby authorised to be purchased shall be amount of 2,607,747 being 5 per cent.
of the 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share issued ordinary share capital at the date of this capital at the date of the Annual General Meeting notice for a period expiring unless previously not to exceed 31,272,105 Ordinary Shares, the renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in equivalent of 14.99% of the Companys issued general meeting at the conclusion of the Annual share capital at the date of this notice : General Meeting of the Company in 2010, but that b the minimum price which may be paid for an the Company may make an offer or agreement Ordinary Share is 25p, being the nominal value which would or might require relevant securities to per ordinary share: be allotted after expiry of this authority and the c the maximum price which may be paid for an Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent that offer or agreement.
STREET COMMERCIAL ST. MIDDLESEX ST. GREAT EASTERN ST. HOUNDSDITCH SUN STREET BROADGATE CIRCLE SOUTH PLACE ELDON ST. MIDDLESEX OPEMAKER STREET PRIMROSE STREET LONDON WALL LIVERPOOL STREET STATION LIVERPOOL ST WORSH P STREET I EARL ST. CHISWELL STREET FOLDGATE ST. FINSBURY SQ.
54 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued of the average of the middle market quotations for capital of the relevant Preferred Stock taken from an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days the business day immediately preceding the day immediately preceding the day on which the on which such stock is purchased: Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of from time to time: the Company in 2010: and d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at e the Company may make a contract to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of purchase any class of Preferred Stock under the the Company in 2010: authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of e the Company may make a contract to such authority which will or may be executed purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority wholly or partly after the expiration of such hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Preferred Stock pursuant to any such contract.
authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and as a Special Resolution: may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant 13 THAT a general meeting, other than an annual to any such contract: and general meeting, may be called on not fewer than f any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be 14 clear days notice.
cancelled or, if the directors so determine, be held as treasury shares.
By order of the Board as a Special Resolution: D J Trickett ACIS 12 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in For and on behalf of accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary 2006 the Act to make market purchases within 8 September 2009 the meaning of section 693 of the Act of the Companys 4.2% cumulative first preference stock the First Preference Stock, 4.2% non-cumulative Annual General Meeting second preference stock the Second Preference Stock and 14% non-cumulative preferred ordinary Venue stock the Preferred Ordinary Stock together the Preferred Stock, provided that: a the maximum amount of Preferred Stock hereby authorised to be purchased is the entire issued capital amount of each such class of Preferred 201 Bishopsgate Stock as at the date of this resolution, being: i 301,982 of First Preference Stock: ii 507,202 of Second Preference Stock: and SPITALFIELDS MARKET iii 589,672 of Preferred Ordinary Stock: FINSBURY b the minimum price exclusive of expenses CIRCUS which may be paid for each 1 of capital of Preferred Stock is 1p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each 1 of capital of Henderson Global Investors, Preferred Stock is an amount equal to 110% of 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE the prevailing middle market quotation for 1 of WORSHIP STREET BRUSHFIELD STREET ALDGATE APPOLD STREET BISHOPSGATE APPOLD STREET WILSON STREET SHOREDITCH BISHOPSGATE MOORGATE FINSBURY PAVE.
CLIFTON ST. NORTON CITY ROAD The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 55 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued right under such an agreement to give instructions to the Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual member as to the exercise of voting rights.
General Meeting Nominated persons should contact the registered member by Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 10 to 4 Proxies rights to vote at the meeting 13 are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of On a vote on a show of hands, each proxy has one vote.
those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes If a proxy is appointed by more than one member and all such cast must be in favour of the resolution.
members have instructed the proxy to vote in the same way, the 1 Voting record date proxy will only be entitled, on a show of hands, to vote for or Only members registered in the Register of Members of the against as applicable.
If a proxy is appointed by more than Company at close of business on 13 October 2009 shall be one member, but such members have given different voting entitled to attend and vote at the AGM in respect of the instructions, the proxy may, on a show of hands, vote both for number of voting rights registered in their name at that time.
and against in order to reflect the different voting instructions.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after close of On a poll all or any of the voting rights of the member may be business on 13 October 2009 shall be disregarded in exercised by one or more duly appointed proxies.
However, determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at where a member appoints more than one proxy, section 285 4 the meeting.
of the Companies Act 2006 does not authorise the exercise by In the case of joint holders of a voting right, the vote of the the proxies taken together of more extensive voting rights than senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall could be exercised by the member in person.
be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint 5 Voting by corporate representatives holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by Corporate representatives are entitled to attend and vote on the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members behalf of the corporate member in accordance with section 323 in respect of the joint holding.
2 Rights to attend and vote 6 Receipt and termination of proxies The rights of members to attend and vote at the forthcoming A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged Annual General Meeting or at any adjournment s thereof are as with the Companys Registrars Computershare Investor follows: Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA before 3pm on a Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and vote 13 October 2009. on a poll or on a show of hands.
On a poll holders of A member may terminate a proxys authority at any time before Ordinary Shares have one vote for every 15 shares.
the commencement of the meeting.
Termination must be b Holders of Cumulative First Preference Stock are entitled provided in writing and submitted to the Companys registrars to attend and vote on a poll or on a show of hands.
On a Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, poll holders of Cumulative First Preference Stock have one BS99 3FA.
vote for every 10 of stock held.
7 Electronic receipt of proxies c Holders of Preferred Ordinary Stock are entitled to attend CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by and vote on a poll or on a show of hands.
On a poll holders utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do of Preferred Ordinary Stock have one vote for every 20 of so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by utilising stock held.
the procedures described in the CREST manual, which is d Holders of Non-cumulative Second Preference Stock available to download from the Euroclear website have no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of www.
CREST personal members or other the Company.
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their 3 Right to appoint proxies CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to Pursuant to section 324 of the Companies Act 2006, a member take the appropriate action on their behalf.
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to exercise the rights attached to different shares held by him, or be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy attached to a different 10, or multiple of 10, of stock held by Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in A form of proxy is enclosed.
The completion of the form of the CREST manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to be proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting received by the Issuers agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for in person at the meeting.
receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 6 above.
For this Section 324 does not apply to persons nominated to receive purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as information rights pursuant to section 146 of the Companies determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the Act 2006.
Persons nominated to receive information rights CREST applications host from which the issuers agent is able to under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 have been sent retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the mnner this notice of meeting and are hereby informed, in accordance prescribed by CREST.
with section 149 2 of the Companies Act 2006, that they may CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or have the right under an agreement with the registered member voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland by whom they are nominated to be appointed, or to have Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations have such right or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 56 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that any statement that the Company has been required to publish a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any on its website.
In this connection, CREST sponsors or voting By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of representatives are understood by the Company to have agreed the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST to receive any communications relating to the Companys shares system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in 9 Website the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 of the A copy of the notice of the Annual General Meeting, including Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. these explanatory notes, is included on the Companys website, 8 Questions at the Annual General Meeting www.
com Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors 10 Total voting rights at date of notice to answer any question raised at the AGM which relates to the As at 8 September 2009 being the last practicable date prior business of the meeting, although no answer need be given a to the publication of this Notice the Companys total voting if to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation of the rights comprised: meeting or involve disclosure of confidential information: b if a 208,619,778 Ordinary Shares, representing 13,907,991 the answer has already been given on the Companys website: votes: or c if it is undesirable in the best interests of the Company or b 301,982 of Cumulative First Preference Stock, representing the good order of the meeting.
30,198 votes: Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the c 589,672 of Preferred Ordinary Stock, representing 29,484 Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a votes.
statement on its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors Therefore the total number of votes in the Company as at report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before 8 September 2009 is 13,967,673. the meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual Registered Office: General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE
