The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 27 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the financial position of the Company and enable them to the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial ensure that the financial statements and the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards Each of the directors, who are listed on page 13, confirms and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must that, to the best of their knowledge: not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied the financial statements, which have been prepared in that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of are required to: the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company: and consistently: the Report of the Directors in this Annual Report includes make judgements and accounting estimates that are a fair review of the development and performance of the reasonable and prudent: business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have it faces.
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Signed on behalf of the Board of directors respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting S M fide Zoete records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 8 September 2009 The financial statements are published on www.
com which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
