The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 33 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and with the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Valuation of investments Listed investments are valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Income from fixed interest debt securities and preference shares is recognised using the effective interest rate method in accordance with the SORP.
Bank interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The ordinary element of scrip dividends received in lieu of cash dividends is recognised as revenue.
Any enhancement above the cash dividend is treated as capital.
Underwriting commission is recognised as it is earned.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities, a derivative financial instrument is recognised at fair value.
The derivative is remeasured to fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Income Statement.
Commissions in respect of underwriting are recognised when the underwritten issue closes and are generally recognised within the Income Statement as revenue.
Where, however, the Company is required to take up a proportion of the shares underwritten, the same proportion of the commission received is recognised as capital, with the balance recognised as revenue.
34 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued e Management and administrative expenses and finance charges All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital gains and 30% to income, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance costs excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fees.
Performance fees earned are allocated between capital and revenue based on the outperformance attributable to capital and revenue respectively.
f Taxation The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between the capital return and revenue return using the Companys effective rate of tax for the year.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date other than those differences regarded as permanent.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
g Borrowings Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are recorded when the proceeds are received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including interest payable, premiums on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
h Preference stocks Under FRS 25 preference and preferred ordinary stocks are classified as debt.
The dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stocks are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance costs.
i Dividends payable to equity shareholders Under FRS 21 dividends should not be accrued in the accounts unless they have been approved by shareholders before the balance sheet date.
Interim dividends payable to equity shareholders are recognised in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds once they have been paid to shareholders.
j Issue and repurchase of ordinary shares and associated costs The proceeds from the issue of new ordinary shares including those relating to the sale of shares out of treasury and the aggregate cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including those to be held in treasury are taken directly to equity and dealt with in the Reconciliation of Movement in Shareholders Funds.
Issue costs incurred in respect of new ordinary shares are offset against the proceeds received and dealt with in the share premium account.
Issue costs incurred in respect of shares sold out of treasury are offset against proceeds received and dealt with in other capital reserves.
