52 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 General Shareholder Information Release of Results Share Price Listings Half year results are announced in February.
Full year results The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is are announced in August September.
published daily in The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the Annual General Meeting estimated NAV and the discount.
The AGM is held in London in October.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred BACS ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the London Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
stockholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are available from Performance Details Share Price Information the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Details of the Companys share price and NAV can be found Registrar the address is given on the inside back cover to on the website.
com give their instructions: these must include the bank account The Companys NAV is published daily.
number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank Shareholder Details to which payments are to be made.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can Disability Act check their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Investor Services PLC, via www.
com Please Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, note that to gain access to your details on the Computershare copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including site you will need the holder reference number shown on your Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor ISIN SEDOL number Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone number of the Companys shares is GB0001990497.
The to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate mnemonic code is CTY.
Specially trained Nominee Share Code operators are available during normal business hours to Where notification has been provided in advance, the answer queries via this service.
Company will arrange for copies of shareholder Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator communications to be provided to the operators of nominee provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Investors in Halifax Share Dealing and Henderson ISAs receive all shareholder communications.
A voting instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
Warning to Shareholders Shareholders should be wary of unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning the Company and offering investment advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or free company reports.
It is extremely unlikely that The City of London Investment Trust plc, its Manager Henderson Global Investors or its Registrar Computershare Investor Services would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders.
In the event that the Company or its advisers did make unsolicited calls, shareholders would never be asked to confirm their personal details and such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never be in respect of offering investment advice, or unpublished investment or financial information regarding the Company.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call the Company Secretary at the telephone number provided on the inside back cover.
