The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 33 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and with the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
b Valuation of investments Listed investments are valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
d Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Income from fixed interest debt securities and preference shares is recognised using the effective interest rate method in accordance with the SORP.
Bank interest and stock lending income are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The ordinary element of scrip dividends received in lieu of cash dividends is recognised as revenue.
Any enhancement above the cash dividend is treated as capital.
Underwriting commission is recognised as it is earned.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities, a derivative financial instrument is recognised at fair value.
The derivative is remeasured to fair value, with the related gains and losses being reflected in the Income Statement.
Commissions in respect of underwriting are recognised when the underwritten issue closes and are generally recognised within the Income Statement as revenue.
Where, however, the Company is required to take up a proportion of the shares underwritten, the same proportion of the commission received is recognised as capital, with the balance recognised as revenue.
