Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 59 n Settlement accounts Settlement balance debtors and creditors are the amounts due to and from counterparties in respect of the groups market-making activities.
The balances are short term in nature, do not earn interest and are recorded at the amount receivable or payable.
o Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to borrowers at cost including any transaction costs and are classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39.
They are then amortised using the EIR method and recorded net of provisions for impairment losses.
The carrying value of loans and advances approximates to their fair value.
Impairment provisions are made if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more subsequent events regarding a significant loan or a portfolio of loans a loan and its impact can be reliably estimated.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the original EIR.
As the loan amortises over its life, the impairment loss may amortise.
All impairment losses are reviewed at least at each reporting date.
If subsequently the amount of the loss decreases as a result of a new event, the relevant element of the outstanding impairment loss is reversed.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the original EIR applied to the carrying amount as reduced by an allowance for impairment.
For loans that are not considered individually significant, the group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates a loss rate dependent on the overdue period.
Loss rates are based on the discounted expected future cash flows and are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
p Finance leases, operating leases and hire purchase contracts A finance lease is a lease or hire purchase contract that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Finance leases are recognised as loans at an amount equal to the gross investment in the lease discounted at its implicit interest rate.
Finance charges on finance leases are taken to income in proportion to the net funds invested.
Rental costs under other leases and hire purchase contracts are charged to the income statement in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
q Debt securities and equity shares Fair values of all financial instruments are obtained from independent open market sources, independent professional valuers, discounted cash flow models based on prevailing market rates or option pricing models.
Financial instruments held for trading The long and short positions respectively represent the aggregate net bought and net sold positions, held by Winterflood Securities Limited and Close Brothers Seydler AG.
They are valued at the dealers bid and offer prices respectively and are the only financial instruments held for trading.
As such they are fair valued through profit or loss and the net gains arising are the only items shown within gains and losses arising from dealing in securities in the income statement.
Other investments designated at inception under the fair value option These are equity shares and related loans classified thus because they are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented investment strategy, with results being reported to the companys board.
Resulting gains and losses are included in the income statement within other operating income.
Listed investments are valued at bid price.
Unlisted investments comprise those made in various private equity limited liability partnerships.
These partnerships themselves typically invest in unquoted entities via equity and loans and value each investment semi-annually in compliance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines endorsed by The British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, their valuations being externally audited annually.
Each investment is generally valued at cost for the first year: thereafter valuations are typically based on an appropriate multiple of earnings before interest and tax EBIT.
If necessary, the partnerships adjust EBIT, in the latest statutory or management accounts as appropriate, to what are considered sustainable levels based on forecast indicators.
With respect to the multiple, a comparable quoted company, group of companies, sector or recent transaction is used and discounted for differences in size, operation, product mix, timing and marketability.
The groups valuation of the overall portfolio of partnership interests reflects the illiquid nature of the portfolio and the effect of cash distributions and material changes in the business outlook or performance of the individual investments since their last semi-annual valuation.
Floating rate notes held to maturity These are investments with fixed or determinable payments that are held with the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently valued at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the initial amount adjusted for subsequent payments, less cumulative amortisation calculated using the EIR method.
The resulting balance is reduced for amounts which are considered to be impaired or uncollectible.
