58 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Financial Statements The Notes 1.
Accounting policies continued g Gains less losses arising from dealing in securities This includes the net gains arising from both buying and selling securities and from positions held in securities, including related interest income and dividends.
h Share-based awards The group operates four share-based award schemes, an annual discretionary performance arrangement and three long term equity based incentive schemes Incentive Schemes : the 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Inland Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
As allowed by IFRS 1, the company has not applied IFRS 2 Share-based Payment to grants under these Incentive Schemes before 8 November 2002.
The costs of the annual discretionary performance related awards are based on the salary of the individual at the time the award is made.
The value of the share award at the grant date is charged to the groups income statement in the year to which the award relates.
The cost of the Incentive Schemes is based on the fair value of awards on the date of grant.
Fair values are determined using a stochastic Monte Carlo simulation pricing model for the LTIP and the Black-Scholes pricing model for the others.
Both models take into account the exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk free interest rate, the expected volatility of the companys share price over the life of the option award and other relevant factors.
The stochastic pricing model is also used to calculate the fair value of the market related element of the LTIP awards by comparing the companys TSR performance against a comparator group of companies.
Vesting conditions are not taken into account when measuring fair value, but are reflected by adjusting the number of shares in each award such that the amount recognised reflects the number that are expected to, and then actually do, vest.
The fair value is expensed in the income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the share-based awards reserve.
At the end of the vesting period, or upon exercise, lapse or forfeit if earlier, this credit is transferred to retained reserves.
Further information on the groups schemes are provided in note 31, and in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
i Depreciation and amortisation Property, plant and equipment, including freehold investment properties held for long-term investment, and computer software classified as intangible assets other, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation or amortisation, less provisions for any impairment.
The provision for depreciation or amortisation on these assets is calculated to write off their cost over their estimated useful lives by equal annual instalments as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10% to 33% Motor vehicles 25% Freehold and long leasehold property 2.5% Short leasehold property over the length of the lease Computer software 20% to 33% No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold land, which is stated at cost.
j Impairment losses on goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of business assets before 1 August 1998 has been written off to reserves.
From that date such goodwill arising was capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised, in equal annual instalments, unless there has been impairment, over its estimated useful life of up to 20 years.
From 1 August 2004, amortisation of goodwill has ceased, negative goodwill is credited to the income statement and the net book value of goodwill is subject to impairment review at least annually.
k Exceptional items Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are non-recurring are classified as exceptional items on the face of the income statement.
The separate reporting of these items helps give an indication of the groups underlying performance.
l Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
m Deferred tax To enable the tax charge to be based on the profit for the year, deferred tax is provided in full on temporary timing differences, at the rates of tax expected to apply when these differences crystallise.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be set.
All deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets in accordance with the provisions of IAS 12.
