56 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Financial Statements The Notes 1.
Accounting policies a Compliance with financial reporting standards The consolidated financial statements the consolidated accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with all relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union.
At the balance sheet date the group had adopted all standards and interpretations which had become effective during the year, with no material impact on the financial statements of the group.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date, subject to EU endorsement in some cases, that does not impact on these financial statements.
IFRS 8 Operating segments applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
It is anticipated that the adoption of IFRS 8 in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group except for the addition of further segmental disclosures.
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements.
The revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations first accounted for in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and the amendments to IAS 27 apply retrospectively to periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The main changes to existing practice affect acquisitions achieved in stages and those where less than 100% of equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition related costs must be accounted for as expenses unless directly connected with the issue of debt or equity securities.
The main impact to the group will arise when future acquisitions take place.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Adoption of the revised standard will have no effect on the results reported in the groups financial statements but will change the presentation of the results and financial position of the group in certain respects.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The effect to the group is under review although no material impact is expected.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and will result in additional disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 1 Financial statements presentation regarding puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Improvements to IFRS issued in May 2008 contain amendments to a number of IFRSs.
The following IFRIC interpretations which first apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 are not expected to result in any changes to the groups accounting policies: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners The company financial statements the company accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with Section 395 of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and with all relevant UK accounting standards.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its company income statement and related notes.
b Re-presentation of income statement and balance sheet During the period the group has undertaken a review of the presentation in its primary financial statements seeking to enhance the ease of comprehension for users of the accounts, to better align disclosed statutory information both with the way management information is presented internally and with externally disclosed KFRs, and to respond to evolving market practice.
The revised presentation of the consolidated income statement and balance sheet provides a clearer base from which to analyse the results and position of the group and is more closely aligned to market practice and the way the group is managed.
