60 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Financial Statements The Notes 1.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments classified as available for sale These are recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable purchase costs, with changes being accounted for through equity.
If such an asset is sold or there is objective evidence that it is impaired, the cumulative gains and losses recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
In subsequent periods if the fair value of an available for sale debt security increases due to an event which occurred after the impairment loss was recognised, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement but are recognised directly in equity.
Certificates of deposit classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 These are purchased for liquidity purposes and normally held to maturity.
They are unlisted and due to mature within one year and are valued at amortised cost.
Equity shares held by the employee benefit trust These are held at cost and shown within equity as part of Share-based reserves.
Realised surpluses and deficits are not taken to the income statement.
r Loans to and from money brokers against stock advanced Loans to money brokers against stock advanced are the cash collateral provided to these institutions for stock borrowing by the groups market-making activities.
Interest is paid on the stock borrowed and earned on the cash deposits held.
The stock borrowing to which the cash deposits relate is short term in nature and is recorded at the amount receivable.
Loans from money brokers against stock collateral provided are recorded at the amount payable.
Interest is paid on the loans payable.
s Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are used to minimise the impact of interest and currency rate changes to the groups financial instruments and meet the IAS 39 criteria for hedge accounting.
They are carried on the balance sheet at fair value which is obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, including recent market transactions, and discounted cash flow models.
On acquisition, a derivative is designated as a hedge and the group formally documents the relationship between the derivative and the hedged item.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivative is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
If a hedge was deemed partially ineffective but continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the amount of the ineffectiveness, taking into account the timing of the expected cash flows where relevant, would be recorded in the income statement.
If the hedge is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective the group discontinues hedge accounting.
For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
For cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with the effective proportion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in equity and recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects income.
t Other financial liabilities Financial liabilities, other than derivative financial instruments and those held for trading, are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of those financial liabilities.
After initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
u Foreign currencies For the company and those subsidiaries whose balance sheets are denominated in sterling, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the year and exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
The balance sheets of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates.
The income statements for these subsidiaries are translated at the average rates and exchange differences arising are taken to the exchange movements reserve.
Such exchange differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the subsidiary is disposed of.
As allowed by IFRS 1, cumulative foreign exchange differences up to 31 July 2004 have not been recognised in the exchange movements reserve.
v Dividends Dividends payable are recognised in retained earnings once they are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the company.
Dividends receivable are recognised once the right to receive payment is established.
