Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 61 w Pensions The group operates defined contribution pension schemes and a defined benefits pension scheme for eligible employees.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension arrangement where the group pays fixed contributions into a fund separate from the groups assets.
Contributions are charged in the income statement when they become payable.
A defined benefit scheme is an arrangement where an employees retirement receipts are defined by factors such as salary, length of service and age.
The liabilities of the groups one defined benefit scheme, which was closed to new entrants in 1996, are measured using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return on high quality corporate bonds with a term that matches that of the liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the income statement over the members expected average remaining working lives.
The net deficit or surplus on the plan, comprising the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets and any unrecognised actuarial gains and losses, is carried on the balance sheet.
x Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements under IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and the exercise of judgement in the process of applying the groups accounting policies.
Estimates and judgements are kept under continuous evaluation and are based mainly on historical experience and expectations of future events but incorporate other factors.
The critical estimates and judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below.
Impairment of loans and advances Allowances for loan impairment represent managements estimate of the losses incurred in the loan portfolios as at the balance sheet date.
Changes to the allowances for loan impairment are reported in the consolidated income statement as impairment losses on loans and advances.
Impairment provisions are made if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more subsequent events regarding a significant loan or a portfolio of loans a loan and its impact can be reliably estimated.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
All impairment losses are reviewed at least at each reporting date.
If subsequently the amount of the loss decreases as a result of a new event, the relevant element of the outstanding impairment loss is reversed.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised at the original effective interest rate applied to the carrying amount as reduced by an allowance for impairment.
For loans that are not considered individually significant, the group adopts a formulaic approach which allocates a loss rate dependent on the overdue period.
Loss rates are based on the discounted expected future cash flows and are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Fair value of financial instruments Some of the groups financial instruments are carried at fair value through profit or loss such as those held for trading, designated by management under the fair value option and non-cash flow hedging derivatives.
Other non-derivative financial assets may be designated as available for sale.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value included as a separate component of equity.
In addition, the group has cash flow hedging derivatives which are carried at fair value.
The fair value gain or loss associated with the effective proportion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially directly in equity.
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Fair values of all financial instruments are obtained from independent open market sources, independent professional valuers, discounted cash flow models based on prevailing market rates or option pricing models.
Where a valuation model is used to determine fair value, it makes maximum use of market inputs.
Effective interest rate The EIR method applies a rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts relating to a financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
The estimated future cash flows take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts but not future credit losses.
At least annually, models are reviewed to assess expected lives of groups of assets based upon actual repayment profiles.
Goodwill impairment The directors review goodwill for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate that impairment may have taken place.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future cash flows and performance, discounted at an appropriate rate which the directors estimate to be the return appropriate to the business.
