Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 57 In prior years, the group has presented debt and equity financial instruments on the basis of their IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement categorisation on the face of the consolidated balance sheet.
These instruments are now presented as Debt securities and Equity shares.
Where line items have been combined relevant breakdowns and analyses by IAS 39 category have been provided in the notes.
The prior period comparatives have therefore been re-presented for consistency.
To enable proper comparisons and in line with the treatment adopted for the 2009 income statement, the 2008 comparative information has also been re-presented for certain fee income and expense items and for interest income and expense.
This has resulted in interest income and expense increasing by 16.7 million and 1.2 million respectively, with a decrease in fee and commission income of 29.2 million and a decrease in fee and commission expense of 13.7 million.
The impact on 2009 has been to increase interest income and expense by 15.1 million and 2.6 million respectively and to decrease fee and commission income and expense by 27.5 million and 15.0 million respectively.
There has been no impact on operating income or profit attributable to the shareholders of the company or the KFRs disclosed in the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
c Accounting convention The consolidated accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss, available for sale financial assets and all derivative financial instruments derivatives.
The company accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the groups and companys primary operating environment and is their functional currency.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
d Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements of the company and the entities it controls subsidiaries using the acquisition method of accounting.
Control exists where the company has the power to govern an entitys financial and operating policies.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated income statement from the date control transfers to the company to the date control transfers from the company.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition with the interest of minority shareholders stated at the minoritys proportion of these amounts.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over these net assets is capitalised as goodwill.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
As allowed by IFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the company has not restated to IFRS fair values those acquisitions that took place before 1 August 2004.
Associates The consolidated accounts also incorporate the financial statements of entities that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures but over which the company has significant influence associates, using the equity method of accounting.
This applies where the company and its subsidiaries the group hold 20% or more of an entitys voting power, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that no significant influence exists.
The groups share of an associates results is included in the consolidated income statement from the date it becomes an associate to the date it stops being so.
Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost.
This carrying amount subsequently decreases for the groups share of any losses or distributions received and increases for the groups share of any profit.
The carrying amount is also reviewed annually for impairment.
e Net interest income Interest on loans and advances made by the group, and fee income and expense and other direct costs relating to loan origination, restructuring or commitments are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR method applies a rate that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts relating to a financial instrument to its net carrying amount.
The cash flows take into account all contractual terms of the financial instrument including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts but not future credit losses.
f Net fee and commission income Where fees that have not been included within the EIR method are earned on the execution of a significant act, such as fees arising from negotiating or arranging a transaction for a third party, they are recognised as revenue when that act has been completed.
Fees and corresponding expenses in respect of other services are recognised in the income statement as the right to consideration or payment accrues through performance of services.
In particular, upfront commissions paid in respect of managing, as opposed to originating, fund products are initially included within prepayments and accrued income and then recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
To the extent that fees and commissions are recognised in advance of billing they are included as accrued income or expense.
