ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 102 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING CONVENTION TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation.
Depreciation cost convention and in accordance with applicable law and United is provided on a straight-line basis, to reduce the carrying value Kingdom accounting standards.
The accounting policies have been to the estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year annual rates: in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Fixtures and fittings : 10% to 20% Companys financial statements.
In accordance with Section 408 Residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
of the Companies Act 2006 a separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has not been presented.
TAXATION Current UK corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts INVESTMENTS expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
PENSION COSTS Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that For defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the amount have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs is transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax the contributions payable in the year.
For further details see Note 10. in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at LEASES the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated assessments in periods different from those in which they are over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital recognised in the financial statements.
elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Hire purchase transactions profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing are dealt with similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to THE COMPANY AS LESSOR distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected receivables at the amount of the Companys net investment in the to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Companys net substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
measured on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
102 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 103 DEBT HEDGE ACCOUNTING Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction The Company maintains documentation of the relationship between of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made hedging transaction together with the risk management objective in the period.
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and and the strategy underlying the designated hedge.
The Company also loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging on the carrying amount.
relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash flows DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of the hedged items.
The Company may enter into derivative financial instruments, in particular interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges: exchange contracts to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities and the financing of the Groups activities.
Fair Value Hedge The Company does not use derivative financial instruments Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and for speculative purposes.
qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, The use of financial derivatives is governed by Group policies together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
on the use of financial derivatives.
Cash Flow Hedge Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets or liabilities Cash flow hedging matched the cash flows of hedged items against measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
Changes in the corresponding cash flow of the derivative.
The effective part of the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not fulfil the criteria any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in equity and for hedge accounting contained in FRS 26 are recognised immediately the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for in the income statement.
Any ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Related Party Transactions The company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in Financial Reporting Standard 8 Related Party Transactions not to disclose transactions or balances with entities which form part of the group.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 103
