ID4874 Bc AR2009 15. qxp 8 3 10 08:03 Page 101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BODYCOTE PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2009, which comprise In our opinion the parent company financial statements: the Parent Company Balance Sheet, Accounting Policies and the give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has affairs as at 31 December 2009: been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of the Companies Act 2006. in accordance with Chapter 3 of part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards been received from branches not visited by us: or on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the parent company financial statements and the part of the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Board Report on Remuneration to be audited are not SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable by law are not made: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we require for our audit.
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently OTHER MATTER applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant We have reported separately on the group financial statements accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall of Bodycote plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 and the presentation of the financial statements.
information in the Board Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Sharon Fraser, Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester, UK 25 February 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 101
