ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:40 Page 54 RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTORS FOR THE PREPARATION The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Board Report on Remuneration and the financial statements company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under International Financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance Finance Directors Report, all the information contained on pages with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: 8 to page 55 together comprise the Directors Report for the properly select and apply accounting policies: year ended 31 December 2009.
It includes a fair review of the present information, including accounting policies, in a manner development and performance of the business and the position that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation information: and taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on 25 February 2010 and is signed on its behalf by: on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required S. C. Harris by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
Chief Executive In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained D. F. Landless in the financial statements.
Finance Director 54 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
