ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 61 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the group achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and financial statements comply with article 4 of EU IAS Regulation as operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its adopted for use in the EU.
activities except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The Group has adopted Standards and Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of IASB IFRIC.
Individual standards and interpretations have to be acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values adopted by the European Commission EC and the process leads to of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
a delay between the issue and adoption of new standards and in Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values some cases amendment by the EC.
of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
International Financial Reporting Standards are subject to ongoing The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys amendment by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by the EC proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
and are therefore subject to change.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
basis, with the exception of accounting for share-based payments The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the and certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies year are included in the consolidated income statement from the adopted are set out below.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies Interpretations have been adopted and have affected the amounts used into line with those used by the Group.
reported in the financial statements.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses IAS 1 revised 2007 are eliminated on consolidation.
IAS 1 revised 2007 INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES has introduced a number of changes in the format and content An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position of the financial statements.
to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, Specifically, IAS 1 requires an entity to present a statement of through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions financial position as at the beginning of the earliest comparative of the investee.
period in a complete set of financial statements when the entity The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
restatement, or when the entity reclassifies items in the financial Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as statements.
During the current year, the Group adopted IFRS 8 adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net Operating Segments.
However, the Directors consider that assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual because the adoption of the standard has no impact on the balance investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups sheet, no presentation of a third balance sheet is required.
interest in those associates are not recognised.
IFRS 8 Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the Operating Segments.
IFRS 8 is a disclosure Standard that has resulted fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of in a re-designation of the Groups reportable segments see note 2. acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within Amendments to IFRS 7 the carrying amount of the investment.
Any deficiency of the cost of Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The amendments to IFRS 7 acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable expand the disclosures required in respect of fair value measurements net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on and liquidity risk.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative acquisition is credited in profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in Where a group company transacts with an associate of the Group, accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in these amendments.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest GOING CONCERN in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an The Directors have at the time of approving the financial statements, impairment of the asset transferred, in which case appropriate a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have provision is made for impairment.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Finance Directors Report on page 30. BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 61 ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 62 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into less costs to sell.
an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held the lease term.
for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale THE GROUP AS LESSOR transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset as receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
within one year from the date of classification.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES GOODWILL Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates or associate at the date of acquisition.
If after restatement, the Groups prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
in net profit or loss for the period.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit in which they arise except for: or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
Exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of certain foreign currency risks see below under financial goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
instruments hedge accounting : and Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves planned nor likely to occur therefore forming part of the net under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not investment in the foreign operation which are recognised included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
initially in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal or partial REVENUE RECOGNITION disposal of the net investment.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is recognised on the completion sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average of services rendered.
exchange rates for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, Such translation differences are recognised as income or as which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Dividend income from investments is recognised when the entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions THE GROUP AS LESSEE before the date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the and liabilities.
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership BORROWING COSTS to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the which they are incurred.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are added minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the to the cost of those assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
62 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 15. qxp 8 3 10 08:03 Page 63 GOVERNMENT GRANTS Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are treated as deferred income and released to profit and loss in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally OPERATING PROFIT recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs, goodwill assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable impairment, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and after the profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences post-tax share of results of associates but before investment income can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the and finance costs.
Amounts presented in the income statement for temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition acquisitions relate to businesses acquired during the current or prior year.
other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
In accordance with IFRS 5, non-current assets held for sale and Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary discontinued operations, the Group has separately disclosed the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, results of the Testing division as discontinued following the disposal and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to of the business in October 2008. control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial all of part of the asset to be recovered.
gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally occur.
They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax the statement of recognised income and expense.
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on assets and liabilities on a net basis.
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT become vested.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by other than land and properties under construction, less their the fair value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this residual values, over their estimated useful lives, using the calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value straight-line method, on the following bases: of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold property over the period of the lease TAXATION Fixtures and fittings 10% - 20% The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Plant and machinery 5% - 20% and deferred tax.
Motor vehicles 20% - 33% The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, statement because it excludes items of income or expense that over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or and is recognised in income.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 63 ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 64 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according EXCLUDING GOODWILL At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset Bank Borrowings is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Finance charges, independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis to the income Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and statement using the effective interest method and are added to value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that not settled in the period in which they arise.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Trade Payables the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is Equity Instruments estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Impairment of financial assets Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the customer or counterparty: or INVENTORIES Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
default or delinquency in payments Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups 66 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the Trade Receivables impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is irrecoverable amounts.
considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off Cash and Cash Equivalents are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
64 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 65 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Net Investment Hedge The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in particular interest Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward exchange contracts, similarly to cash flow hedges.
To the extent the hedge is effective, to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities and changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument arising from the the financing of those activities.
The Group does not use derivative hedged risk are recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income financial instruments for speculative purposes.
and Expense and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies immediately in the Income Statement.
approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement in the event that the foreign operation is disposed of.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and liabilities measured at their fair value on the balance sheet date.
PROVISIONS Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation not fulfil the criteria for hedge accounting contained in IAS 39 are legal or constructive as a result of a past event, when it is probable recognised immediately in the income statement.
A derivative that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and when is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance HEDGE ACCOUNTING sheet date, taking into account, the risks and uncertainties surrounding The Group uses foreign currency debt and cross currency swaps the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows to hedge its exposure to changes in the underlying net assets of estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the overseas operations arising from foreign exchange rate movements.
present value of those cash flows.
The Group maintains documentation of the relationship between Provisions for restructuring costs are recognised when the Group the hedged item and the hedging instrument at the inception of a has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid hedging transaction together with the risk management objective expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring and the strategy underlying the designated hedge.
The Group also by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features documents its assessment, both at the inception of the hedging to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision relationship and subsequently on an ongoing basis, of the effectiveness includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring of the hedge in offsetting movements in the fair values or cash which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the flows of the hedged items.
restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
When hedge accounting is used, the relevant hedging SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS relationships are classified as fair value hedges, cash flow The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based hedges or net investment hedges.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November Note 20 sets out the details of the fair values of the derivative 2002 which were unvested as of 1 January 2005. instruments used for hedging purposes.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Fair Value Hedge employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset straight-line basis over the vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments Cash Flow Hedge expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting Cash flow hedging matches the cash flows of hedged items against conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, the corresponding cash flow of the derivative.
The effective part of if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative any gain or loss on the derivative is recognised directly in equity and expense reflects the revised estimates with a corresponding the hedged item is accounted for in accordance with the policy for adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve.
Any ineffective part of any gain or loss is Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 65 ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 66 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING THE GROUPS GENERAL INFORMATION Bodycote plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom ACCOUNTING POLICIES In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
The address of the registered office is given on page 55.
The nature of the Groups described above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised operations and its principal activities are set out on page 38 of the Directors Report.
in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Provisions for environmental liabilities Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with The Group provides for the costs of environmental remediation the policies set out in the Foreign Currencies accounting policy above.
that have been identified, either as part of acquisition due diligence, or in other circumstances where remediation by the Group is At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the required.
The provision is reviewed annually.
following Standards and Interpretations that are expected to impact on the Group but which have not been applied in these financial KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have IFRS 2 amended Share-based payment a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, IAS 27 amended Consolidated and separate financial statements are discussed below.
IFRS 3 amended Business combinations Impairment of Goodwill and Fixed Assets Improvements to IFRSs 2009 April 2009 Determining whether goodwill and fixed assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to IAS 28 amended Investments in associates which the assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an investment arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate order to calculate present value.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards Retirement Benefit Schemes and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on Accounting for retirement benefit schemes under IAS 19 requires the financial statements of the Group, except for the treatment of an assessment of the future benefits payable in accordance with acquisition of subsidiaries and associates when IFRS 3 amended actuarial assumptions, which are set out in note 30.
2008, IAS 27 amended 2008 and IAS 28 amended 2008 come into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The impact of all other standards and interpretations not yet adopted is not expected to be material.
66 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
