Being a member s of Dexion Absolute Limited, and entitled to vote, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary such appointment may be determined at the discretion of the Company Secretary or.................................................................................................................................................................................... As my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at 9.00 a. m. on 11 June 2010 at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey and at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate by placing a cross in the appropriate spaces below how you wish your votes to be cast.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will exercise his discretion both as to how he votes and as to whether or not he abstains from voting.
Vote Ordinary Resolution For Against Withheld 1.
Adoption of the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 2.
Appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2010 together with the ratification of their remuneration 3.
Re-election of Mr John Hallam 4.
Re-election of Dr Paul Sharman 5.
Re-election of Mr Robin Bowie 6.
Authorisation to allot ordinary shares and or C shares of any currency class 7.
If you desire someone other than the Chairman or a representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy, delete the Chairman of the Meeting or the representative of the Company Secretary such appointment may be determined at the discretion of the Company Secretary above and insert the name of the proxy desired.
If you wish to appoint the representative of the Company Secretary to act as your proxy delete the Chairman of the Meeting or.
If you do not delete these words and you do not insert the name of an alternative proxy in the space provided, you will be deemed to have appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy.
Any such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In the case of a corporation this proxy must be executed under Common Seal or under the hand of an officer or duly authorised attorney.
In the case of joint holders the signature of the person whose name stands first in the Register is sufficient.
To appoint more than one proxy you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, should not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
CREST members should use the CREST electronic proxy appointment service and refer to Note 4 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be effective this Form of Proxy, duly completed together with any power of attorney or authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of attorney or other authority, must be lodged with the Companys transfer agent Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not later than 9.00 a. m. on 9 June 2010.
The lodging of a completed Form of Proxy does not preclude a member from attending, speaking and voting at the AGM.
The quorum for this Meeting is two persons holding or representing by proxy 5 per cent.
of the issued share capital excluding any share capital represented by treasury shares between them.
If such a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for the Meeting, or if during the Meeting such a quorum ceases to be present, it shall stand adjourned to such day, time and place as a Chairman may determine and if at such adjourned meeting a quorum is not present within five minutes from the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, those Members present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
54 Designed and printed by Perivan Financial Print 216594 D fide ex xiio on n A Ab bs so ollu ut te e L Liim miit te ed d 1 Le Truchot St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1WD email: clientservices@dexionabsolute.
