Statement of Directors Responsibilities Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors & accounts and the financial statements, in accordance with Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement applicable law and regulations.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the integrity of the corporate and financial information included Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of required to: the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company: and consistently: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and development and performance of the business and the prudent: position of the Company, together with a description of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and For Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Rory Macnamara Audit Committee Chairman The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 31 March 2009 records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 27
