Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC the Company will be held at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2BY on Wednesday, 20 May 2009 at 12 noon, for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors and the accounts for the year ended 31 January 2009.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 January 2009.
To declare a final dividend of 6.50p on the Ordinary shares.
To re-elect Jean Matterson as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Peter Wolton as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors for the year to 31 January 2010.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions with resolution 8 being proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 9 to 12 as special resolutions: 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 80 of the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,483,453, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing power under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date of the passing of this resolution, the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 1 of the Act to: a allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act wholly for cash at a price not below the net asset value per share pursuant to any authority under Section 80 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: and b sell relevant shares as defined in Section 94 5 of the Act in the Company at a price not below the net asset value per share if, immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 162A 3 of the Act treasury shares wholly for cash as defined in Section 162D 2 of the Act, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,483,453, such power to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares: i in connection with an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors of the Company to the holders of Ordinary shares in the share capital of the Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as practicable to their respective holdings of such Ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors of the Company may consider necessary or expedient to deal with legal or practical problems or difficulties under or resulting from the application or apparent application of the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or in connection with fractional entitlements or treasury shares or otherwise howsoever : and ii other than pursuant to sub-paragraph i of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,883,827, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after the expiry of such power Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 51 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued and the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, for the purposes of Section 166 of the Act, to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares on such terms as the Directors of the Company think fit provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses : iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be the higher of: a 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade in Ordinary shares and the highest current independent bid for Ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
That the draft Articles of Association of the Company produced at the meeting, marked 'A' and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, the Articles of Association of the Company existing at the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company convened on 20 May 2009.
That with effect from 00.01 am on 1 October 2009: i the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all of the provisions of the Company's memorandum of association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as part of the Company's Articles of Association: ii the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all provisions referred to in paragraph 42 of schedule 2 of the Companies Act 2006 Commencement No.
8, Transitional Provisions and Savings Order 2008 Statutory Instrument 2008 No.
2860 : and iii the Articles of Association of the Company produced at the meeting, marked 'B' and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the entire exclusion of, the Articles of Association of the Company existing at that date.
15 April 2009 By order of the Board Registered office: 7th Floor, 40 Princes Street Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Edinburgh EH2 2BY Secretary Notes: i A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote on his her behalf at the Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise the rights attached to any one share.
If you wish your proxy to speak on your behalf at the meeting you will need to appoint your own choice of proxy not the chairman of the meeting and give your instructions directly to them.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms or would like to appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Company's Registrars, Equiniti Limited on 0871 384 52 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 2441 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company's Register of Members in respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most senior.
A member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary share of which he she is the holder.
ii To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument of proxy and any power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which they are signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney or authority should be sent to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Freepost 10850, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR so as to arrive not less than forty eight hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
iii The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument of proxy will not prevent a member attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
"iv The ""vote withheld"" option on the proxy form is provided to enable a member to abstain on any particular resolution."
"It should be noted that an abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes ""for"" or ""against"" a particular resolution."
v In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that to have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members as at 6.00 pm on 18 May 2009 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members as at 6.00 pm on the day two days before the time of any adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
vi As at 31 March 2009 being the latest business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital comprised 150,706,187 Ordinary shares of 25p each excluding treasury shares.
Each Ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 31 March 2009 was 150,706,187. vii Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the chairman of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
viii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate member has appointed the chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that member at the Meeting then, on a poll, those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman of the Meeting and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the Meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
"ix A person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a ""Nominated Person"" may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting."
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statements of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes i to iii above do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The rights described in those Notes can only be exercised by registered members of the Company.
x Biographical details of the Directors standing for re-election are set out on page 19 of this report.
xi Members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should contact the Company Secretary in writing.
Members are advised that any telephone number, website or email address which may be set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicating with, the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xii The following documents are available for inspection on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and bank holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Meeting during usual business hours at the registered office of the Company and will, on the Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 53 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued date of the Meeting, be available for inspection at the venue of the Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: i The Memorandum of Association of the Company: ii The current Articles of Association of the Company and the proposed New Articles marked 'A' and Amended New Articles marked 'B' : and iii The terms of appointment of the Directors of the Company 54 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting PART I - SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED MATERIAL AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THE COMPANY The material amendments to the Company's existing Articles of Association arising from the proposed adoption of the New Articles are summarised below.
References to Article numbers are references to a particular Article in the New Articles.
This Part I of the Appendix to the Annual General Meeting notice does not summarise non-material changes and in particular it does not summarise changes of a minor, technical or clarifying nature.
A copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Managers London office, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the Company's Articles of Association.
"Articles that Duplicate Statutory Provisions Certain provisions in the current Articles of Association of the Company which replicate provisions contained in companies legislation are being amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006 the ""2006 Act""."
Some of those provisions, including provisions as to convening general meetings and proxies, are detailed below.
Uncertificated Shares The New Articles contain detailed provisions relating to the holding of shares in uncertificated form in accordance with the CREST uncertificated securities system.
In addition, the New Articles provide that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited is the holder of the register of uncertificated shares in the Company and that the Company will not be liable for a failure of the Company's obligations to maintain a register of uncertificated shares.
Suspension of Registration of Share Transfers The current Articles of Association of the Company permit the Directors to suspend the registration of transfers for up to 30 days in each year.
Under the 2006 Act, share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable and the Company is not entitled to close its register.
The current Articles of Association of the Company are therefore inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
"Form of Resolution The existing Articles of Association of the Company contain provisions referring to ""extraordinary"" resolutions and ""extraordinary"" general meetings."
These concepts have been abolished under the 2006 Act.
"Meetings of shareholders other than annual general meetings are referred to simply as ""general meetings""."
"Any resolution requiring a 75% majority will be a ""special"" resolution."
Where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required a special resolution shall also be effective.
Stock The existing Articles of Association provide that the Company may by ordinary resolution convert any fully paid shares into stock and re-convert any stock into paid up shares.
The 2006 Act abolishes the power to convert shares into stock.
The New Articles reflect the provisions of the 2006 Act by deleting the provisions relating to Stock.
Convening of General Meetings and Annual General Meetings The provisions of the existing articles of association dealing with the convening of general meetings and annual general meetings and the length of notice required to convene such meetings are amended in the New Articles to conform to the new provisions of the 2006 Act.
In particular, general meetings to consider special resolutions can now be convened on 14 days' notice whereas previously 21 clear days' notice was required.
An annual general meeting still requires 21 clear days' notice.
However implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive which is expected in the UK in August 2009 will result in all general meetings requiring 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter period.
The Directors do not have any current intention to seek shareholder approval to reduce the 21 day period when it comes into force.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 55 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Votes of Members Under the 2006 Act all proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the existing Articles of Association proxies appointed by individuals rather than corporations are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment of proxies have also been altered by the 2006 Act so that weekends and bank holidays do not need to be counted in determining the time limits for lodging of proxies.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or class of shares held by the appointing shareholder.
Corporate Representatives The 2006 Act permits a corporate shareholder to appoint multiple corporate representatives who can attend, speak, vote and count towards a quorum at any general meeting.
The New Articles reflect these provisions of the 2006 Act.
Chairman's Casting Vote Any provision in a company's articles of association giving the chairman a casting vote at a shareholders' meeting became ineffective from 1 October 2007, but companies with a casting vote provision in their articles of association on that date such as the Company were, broadly, allowed to keep it.
However, the EU Shareholder Rights Directive requires that all shareholders be treated equally and therefore the implementing Regulations will remove this saving provision for UK traded companies, such that the casting vote provision in the Company's articles will become redundant in August 2009.
The New Articles do not, therefore, include provision for the Chairman to have a casting vote at a general meeting.
Age Restriction on Directors The existing Articles of Association provide that no person shall be appointed or reappointed to the Board once they have attained the age of 70 years and any person attaining such age shall vacate his or her office at the next Annual General Meeting held after his or her 70th birthday.
This restriction has been deleted in the New Articles as it may fall foul of age discrimination legislation.
Periodic Retirement of Directors The Combined Code on Corporate Governance recommends that all directors must submit themselves for re-election no later than at every third annual general meeting following the meeting at which they were elected or last re-elected.
The New Articles reflect this position and abolish the rotation provisions contained in the existing Articles of Association.
Vacation of Office by Directors The current Articles of Association of the Company specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to reflect the approach taken on mental and physical incapacity in the model articles of association for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
Conflicts of Interest The provisions of the existing Articles in relation to directors' conflicts of interest are amended to reflect the provisions of the 2006 Act in relation to directors' conflicts of interests.
The 2006 Act sets out directors' general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the Company's interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, insofar as the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors' conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
It is proposed that the New Articles will contain provisions giving the Directors authority to approve situations involving Directors' conflicts of interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board.
There are safeguards which will apply when the Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Company's success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
56 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and the availability of board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of interest arises.
It is the Board's intention to report annually on the Company's procedures for ensuring that the Board's powers to authorise conflicts are operating effectively.
"Indemnity The 2006 Act allows companies to indemnify their directors and other officers and to provide to their directors funds to cover the costs of defending legal proceedings brought against them on an ""as incurred"" basis."
In addition, a company may indemnify the directors of an associated company and the directors of a company acting as trustee to an occupational pension scheme.
Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in actions against companies and litigation is often very lengthy and expensive, the Board believes the risk of Directors being placed under significant financial strain is increasing.
This may impact on the ability of the Company to recruit and retain members of the Board of an appropriate calibre.
Accordingly, the New Articles take advantage of the new law.
The Board believes that the power of the Company to indemnify its Directors in the manner described above is fair and reasonable and introduces a more appropriate balance of risk and reward.
The indemnity does not extend to the auditors of the Company.
Borrowing Powers The current Articles of Association provide that the Company's power to incur borrowings is limited to an amount equal to the Company's called up share capital and reserves and that, as an additional restriction temporary borrowings must not exceed 10% of this amount.
The Directors do not consider that the additional restriction on temporary borrowings remains relevant and accordingly this additional restriction has been deleted in the New Articles.
In addition the New Articles contain greater clarity in the determination of what is the called up share capital and reserves and what amounts to borrowings.
PART II - SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE NEW ARTICLES The New Articles will be replaced on 1 October 2009 by the Amended New Articles if resolution 12 is approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The Amended New Articles are the same as the New Articles with the exception of the matters set out in this Part II of the Appendix to the Annual General Meeting notice.
A copy of the Amended New Articles will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Managers London office, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the AGM until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting Repeal of the Companies Act 1985 On 1 October 2009 the final provisions of the 2006 Act which affect the articles of association of the Company will become fully implemented with the effect that the Companies Act 1985 will no longer be relevant to the articles.
The Amended New Articles will therefore not contain references to the Companies Act 1985 and any consequential drafting changes have been made.
"Provisions of the Company's Memorandum of Association The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Company's memorandum of association the ""Memorandum"" and Articles of Association."
The Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities that the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a company's memorandum.
It provides that a memorandum of association will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares that each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a company's memorandum will, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, be deemed to be contained in that company's articles.
Therefore the Company's articles of association will, unless action is taken, be deemed to incorporate those provisions from 1 October 2009.
The 2006 Act states that, unless a company's articles provide otherwise, a company's objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have an objects clause.
For this reason, the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 57 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting continued together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as forming part of the Company's articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Parts i and ii of Resolution 12 is proposed as a special resolution to remove the objects clause.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Company's Memorandum regarding limited liability, the Amended New Articles will also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders to allow it to have the widest possible scope for its activities.
Change of Name Currently, a company can only change its name by special resolution.
Under the 2006 Act, a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles of association.
To take advantage of this flexibility, the Amended New Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Company's name.
Authorised Share Capital and Unissued Shares The 2006 Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital.
The Company is proposing changes to its Memorandum and articles of association to reflect this.
The Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority will continue to be required under the 2006 Act.
Redeemable Shares Under the Companies Act 1985 if a company wishes to issue redeemable shares, its articles of association must include a statement of the terms and manner of redemption.
The 2006 Act enables directors to determine such matters instead, provided they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The Amended New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but, if those plans change, the Directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Provisions no Longer Required Under the Companies Act 1985 a company wishing to transact certain business, such as making alterations to its share capital, was required to have an authority in its articles of association in order to do so.
The 2006 Act does not require such an authority in the articles of association and so the provisions in the existing articles of association dealing with the increase, consolidation, sub-division and cancellation of shares have been deleted.
58 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
