Your Companys History Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC a History The provenance of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC goes back to 1873 and to the origins of the investment trust industry in Scotland.
In 1873, a 28 year old Robert Fleming sometimes dubbed the father of the investment trust industry, persuaded a group of Dundees wealthiest investors to back his idea of forming the first Association in Scotland for investments in American railroad bonds, carefully selected and widely distributed, and where investments would not exceed one-tenth of the capital in any one security.
Fleming, who was later founder of the merchant bank that bore this name, showed extraordinary commercial acumen at a very young age.
He was born in modest circumstances in Dundee and was first apprenticed as office boy at 13, then rose to become, at 21, book-keeper with the exporting arm of Dundees largest textile merchant, Edward Baxter & Son.
In 1870, the elderly Mr Baxter sent Robert Fleming to the United States to represent him on business.
Fleming returned enthused about the investment opportunities offered by the States, despite the country still suffering from the aftermath of the American Civil War.
The association proved to be an attractive means for investors to pool their resources, spread risk and put their investments under full-time management.
The new Fund, then known as The Scottish American Investment Trust, was launched in 1 February 1873.
The Scottish American Investment Trust was partly modelled on the Foreign & Colonial Government Trust that was launched in 1868.
Unlike Foreign & Colonial, which purchased overseas government stocks, the new Trust would invest in The Bonds of States, cities, railroads and other corporations in the US, but chiefly in the mortgage bonds of railroads.
John Guild, one of the chairmen, reported while in this country you could not lend money on first-class railway debentures at over 4% or 4.5%, in America you could get 7% with the best security of this description.
Coupled with the fact that railway infrastructure development in the UK had by then become relatively mature, it was for this reason that the United States was an attractive destination for Scottish funds.
The original prospectus described the intended issue of 150,000 in certificates of 100 each, paying interest of 6% per annum.
Such was the level of demand that the original prospectus was withdrawn and a new one was printed with a capital issue of 300,000.
The Trust started out with 30 stocks, each comprising no more than 30% of the portfolio.
Confusingly, a similar sounding investment trust company, launched in Edinburgh, The Scottish American Investment Company was formed in April 1873, just a few months after Flemings launch in February 1873.
In Dundee, two almost identical issues were made in the following two years, described as the Second Issue and Third Issue.
The three issues became three separate trust companies, under the Joint Stock Companies Act, in 1879 the First, Second and Third Scottish American Trust Companies Ltd, but merged into a single trust company in 1969 as the First Scottish American Investment Company Ltd.
In 1984, the First Scottish became part of the Dunedin Fund Managers stable of trusts and was subsequently renamed in 1990 as Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust.
Dunedin Fund Managers merged with Edinburgh Fund Managers in 1996, which was then acquired by Aberdeen Asset Management in 2003.
60 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
