Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also and the financial statements in accordance with applicable responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors law and regulations.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance integrity of the corporate and financial information included with UK Accounting Standards.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements The financial statements are required by law to give a true may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are that: required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of consistently: the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the Company: and prudent: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have development and performance of the business and the been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed position of the Company, together with a description of the and explained in the financial statements: and principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc continue in business.
Tony Cassidy Chairman The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 5 November 2009 the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
