Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-second Annual General Meeting of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc will be held at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY on 9 December 2009 at 11.00 am to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 11 inclusive and resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 12, 15 and 16 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and auditors and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 August 2009.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 August 2009.
To approve payment of a final dividend of 1.61p per Ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr Tyrie as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Watt as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr McKenzie as a Director of the Company 7.
To re-elect Mr Frame, aged 79, as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Gairns, aged 73, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors for the year to 31 August 2010.
That, in substitution for any pre-existing power to allot or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958, such authority to expire on 28 February 2011 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority, and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 11 in the notice convening the meeting at which this resolution is to be proposed the notice of meeting and in substitution for all existing powers, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority under section 551 of the Act conferred by resolution 11 in the notice of meeting as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958, provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection with any issue in favour of the holders of Ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all the holders of Ordinary shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them on that date, provided that the Directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,309,544, being 5% of the nominal value of the existing issued share capital of the Company: and shall expire on 28 February 2011 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company shall continue as an investment trust.
That, in substitution for any existing authority under section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally 54 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of fully paid Ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company shares provided that: i the maximum aggregate number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 20p exclusive of expenses : iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be an amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to a share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: and iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 28 February 2011 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may, at any time prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase shares under such authority which would or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: and the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution.
By order of the Board Registered office: Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 40 Princes Street Secretary Edinburgh EH2 2BY 16 November 2009 Notes: i A member is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
ii A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
iii In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, to have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting a member must first have his or her name entered in the Companys register of members by not later than 6.00pm on Monday 7 December 2009 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on the day which is two business days before the time of the adjourned Meeting.
Changes to entries on that register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at the Meeting referred to above.
iv CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
v In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 55 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys Registrar ID RA19 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys Registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
vi CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
vii The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. viii The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes i and ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can only be exercised by members of the Company.
ix No Director has a service contract with the Company but copies of Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting and during the Meeting.
x As at close of business on 9 November 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital comprised 230,954,375 Ordinary shares of 20p each.
The total number of voting rights in the Company as at 9 November 2009 was 230,954,375. xi Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
xii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
xiii The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the next meeting of the Company.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address, and be sent to: the Company Secretary, Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY.
xiv The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association.
These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association to reflect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came, or will come, into effect in 2009.
For a more detailed explanation of the amendments, please refer to the Appendix to this Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 58. xv Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys website, www.
xvi Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: 56 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
xvii Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be set out in this notice of Annual General Meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the purposes of serving information or documents on, or otherwise communicating with, the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xviii There are special arrangements for holders of shares through the Aberdeen's Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeen's Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 57 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Explanatory notes of the principal changes to the Articles of Association The principal changes which would arise from the adoption of the New Articles are set out below.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions and the requirement to keep accounting records.
The main changes made, the majority of which reflect this approach, are detailed below.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Age of directors on appointment The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a directors age to be disclosed if he has attained the age of 70 years or more in the notice convening a meeting at which the director is proposed to be elected or re-elected.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the New Articles.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for Articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
Chairman's casting vote The New Articles remove the provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the New Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
58 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company going into liquidation.
These provisions have been removed in the New Articles on the grounds that a provision about the powers of liquidators is a matter for insolvency law rather than the articles and that the Insolvency Act 1986 confers powers on the liquidator which would enable it to do what is envisaged by the Current Articles.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
The New Articles reflect these changes.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the provisions in the Companies Act 2006 relating to website communications.
There are various provisions in the New Articles to allow the Company to communicate with Shareholders via electronic means and to give the Directors the discretion to use electronic communications to distribute notices of meetings, annual reports and summary financial statements.
Electronic conduct of meetings Amendments made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The New Articles reflect the relevant provisions.
Form of resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision does not appear as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
These provisions have therefore been removed in the New Articles.
Memorandum of association and objects of the Company The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities that the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are currently contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, will be deemed to be contained in a companys articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys Articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association.
Resolution 15 confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 59 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued As the effect of the Resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Company's memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
Notice of board meetings Under the Current Articles, when a director is abroad he can request that notice of directors meetings are sent to him at a specified address and if he does not do so he is not entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision has been removed, as modern communications mean that there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a director who is abroad.
It has been replaced with a more general provision that a director is treated as having waived his entitlement to notice, unless he supplies the Company with the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice of a meeting before it takes place.
Notice of general meetings The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to require the Company to give 21 clear days notice of general meetings unless the Company offers shareholders an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
Annual General Meetings must be held on 21 clear days notice.
Provision for employees on cessation of business The Companies Act 2006 provides that the powers of the directors of a company to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by a company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer to any person of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary, may only be exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
The New Articles provide that the directors may exercise this power.
Records to be kept The provision in the Current Articles requiring the Board to keep accounting records has been removed as this requirement is contained in the Companies Act 2006.
Redeemable shares Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
Use of seals Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly the relevant authorisation has been removed in the New Articles.
The New Articles provide an alternative option for execution of documents other than share certificates.
Under the New Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document it may be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for signature by either a director and the secretary or two directors or such other person or persons as the directors may approve.
Vacation of office by directors The Current Articles specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to treat physical illness in the same manner as mental illness.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions 60 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each proxy appointed by a shareholder has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution.
The New Articles remove these provisions in the Current Articles dealing with proxy voting on the basis that these are dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
Voting by corporate representatives The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate shareholder to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing with voting by corporate representatives on the basis that there are dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
Voting record date Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations the Company must determine the right of shareholders to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days which are not working days.
The New Articles remove provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the voting record date on the basis that this is dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and to bring them up to date with the relevant applicable legislation.
