THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33 The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is responsible for the day-to-day investment management decisions of the Company and for the provision of company secretarial and accounting services.
A statement of the Managers responsibilities is shown on page 34 in the Report of the Directors.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of Invesco Asset Management can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
The Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by an Audit Committee consisting of all non-executive Directors with the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Jim Pettigrew.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, were updated during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office of the Company or on the Invesco Perpetual website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process, systems of internal control and the management of financial risks, the audit process, relationships with external auditors, the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations, its code of business conduct and for making recommendations to the Board.
Duties of the Audit Committee include discussing with the external Auditors the nature and scope of the audit and reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and compliance department: reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services.
The provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior Board approval.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the external Auditors in the absence of representatives from the Manager at least once a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external Auditors for the forthcoming year and to authorise the Directors to determine the level of Auditors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including the adherence to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers such as the registrars and custodians.
In the year to 31 March 2009 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by, among other things: Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly financial reports prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon: Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: Reviewing the potential impact of any new Financial Reporting Standards: Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the Companys external Auditors:
