THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in 55 any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twentieth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will be held at The Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, Edinburgh on Friday, 17 July 2009 at 10.30 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and Auditors and the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2009: 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares: 3.
To re-elect Mr Scott Dobbie as a Director of the Company: 4.
To re-elect Mr Jim Pettigrew as a Director of the Company: 5.
To re-elect Mr William Samuel as a Director of the Company: 6.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2009: 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company: 8.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which 9 and 12 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and 10, 11 and 13 as Special Resolutions: 9.
THAT: the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that Section up to a nominal amount of 4,877,918 being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 June 2009, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered, in accordance with Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution the Act to allot equity securities for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by resolution 9 set out above or if such allotment is constituted of the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems 56 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 4,877,918 being 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 June 2009. and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part IV or V of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of the issued ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 29,247,998 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 June 2009 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: d any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or on 16 January 2011 if earlier, unless the authority is renewed at any other general meeting prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
THAT the Objective and Investment Policy be changed from the current Objective and Investment Policy to: The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
The Company will generally invest only in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK or in those which are about to enter the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company may invest up to 15% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company will not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 57 Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company borrows money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to a maximum of 200 million.
Use of derivative instruments is permitted within the following constraints and is monitored carefully by the Board.
The writing of covered calls, to a maximum of 10% of the value of the portfolio, is permitted and a maximum of 15% may be invested in FTSE 100 futures.
Other derivative contracts may be employed subject to an aggregate of the above limits and to the prior approval of the Board.
THAT: the period of notice required for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 days.
Explanatory Notes to Resolution 13 Notice of period for general meetings This resolution will be decided on a poll unless passed earlier on a show of hands without any vote being cast against.
This resolution is required in contemplation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive.
It is expected that when this directive is brought into force, it will increase the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met, in which case it may be 14 days notice.
For the latter to apply, a shareholder resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 days must have been passed at the immediately preceding AGM.
Since at the time of printing this notice, it is not known whether any alleviating transitional provisions will be included in the legislation implementing the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, it is prudent to include this resolution in this years AGM.
For an explanation of all Special Business please refer to the Chairmans Statement on page 7 and the Report of the Directors on pages 22 and 23.
Dated this 8th June 2009 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Secretary Following the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will have the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives from the Manager informally.
58 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6LR to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
A form of appointment of proxy is enclosed.
Appointment of a proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged at the office of the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6LR later than 10.30 a. m. on 15 July 2009.
A person entered on the Register of Members at 6 p. m. on 15 July 2009 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members at 6 p. m. on 15 July 2009.
The Register of Directors Interests, the Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee and the Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
A copy of the Articles of Association are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any business day excluding public holidays until the close of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior and during the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the AGM, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives http: www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at 8 June 2009 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 195,116,734.
