30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Directors Statement of Compliance with the revised Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code and the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide The Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In February 2009, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide would meet their obligations in relation to the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules relating to additional items to be included in the Annual Financial Report.
This statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code and AIC Guide have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC Guide.
During the year under review, the terms of reference for the Board, the Audit, Nomination and Management Engagement Committees were reviewed and updated, where appropriate, to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found on the AICs website at www.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Directors believe that, throughout the year, they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and, therefore, with all the relevant provisions in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code.
Directors Independence The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, each of whom the Board regards as wholly independent of the Companys Manager.
Some commentators have a view that length of service on a board can compromise independence from the manager.
The AIC does not believe that this is the case for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority.
The Board considers that the independence of Scott Dobbie, who has served on the Board for more than 9 years, is not compromised by his length of service.
The Board believes that the Company benefits from a balance of board members with different tenures.
Scott Dobbie, having served on the Board for more than 9 years, will retire at this years AGM and will offer himself for re-election.
In considering the Chairmans independence, it should also be noted that the current manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited was appointed in September 2008.
Chairman The Chairman of the Company is Scott Dobbie, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
As the Company is an investment trust and sub-contracts its day-to-day investment management and administration, its Board consists exclusively of non-executive Directors and it does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Scott Dobbie has been a member of the Board since 1998 and Chairman since 2003.
He is subject to an annual performance appraisal.
Following this years appraisal, the Board has confirmed that the Chairmans performance continues to be effective and therefore recommends his re-election.
The Chairman will be present at the AGM to answer questions.
Senior Non-Executive Director The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Richard Barfield.
Board Balance The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board are shown on page 13.
