52 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18.
Risk management and financial instruments Financial instruments The Companys financial instruments mainly comprise its investment portfolio as shown on pages 11 and 12 and debentures as well as its cash, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The accounting policies in note 1 include criteria for the recognition and the basis of measurement applied for financial instruments.
Note 1 also includes the basis on which income and expenses arising from financial assets and liabilities are recognised and measured.
Risk management policies and procedures The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment activities and management of gearing of the Company as more fully described in the Report of the Directors.
As an investment trust the Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to meet its investment policy incorporating the Companys investment objective.
In pursuing its investment objective, the Company is exposed to a variety of risks that could result in either a reduction in the Companys net assets or a reduction of the profits available for dividends.
Those related to financial instruments include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These policies are summarised below and have remained substantially unchanged for the two years under review.
The main risk that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments is market risk this risk is reviewed in detail below.
Since the Company invests mainly in UK equities traded on the London Stock Exchange, liquidity risk and credit risk are not significant.
Liquidity risk is minimised as the majority of the Companys investments comprise a diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding commitments as necessary.
In addition, the Company has a 15 million overdraft facility which it can use to provide short-term funding flexibility.
Credit risk encompasses the failure by counterparties to deliver securities which the Company has paid for, or to pay for securities which the Company has delivered, and cash balances.
Counterparty risk is minimised by using only approved counterparties.
The Companys ability to operate in the short-term may be adversely affected if the Companys custodian, JPMorgan Chase, suffers insolvency or other financial difficulties.
The Board reviews the custodians annual controls report and the Managers management of the relationship with the custodian.
Cash balances are limited to a maximum of 5 million with any one depository, with only approved depositories being used, and a maximum deposit of 75 million with AIM Short-Term Investments Company Global Series plc, a triple-A rated money market fund.
Market risk The fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument may fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
This market risk comprises three elements currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
Looking at the components parts of market risk, currency risk is minimal as the Companys financial instruments are mainly denominated in sterling.
For the remaining two components of market risk, the Companys Manager assesses the Companys exposure when making each investment decision, and monitors the overall level of market risk for the whole of the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis.
The Board meets at least quarterly to assess risk and review investment performance, as disclosed in the Board Responsibilities on page 32.
The debentures provide structural gearing which is used to enhance returns, however, this will also increase the Companys exposure to market risk and volatility.
Interest rate risk Interest rate movements will affect the level of income receivable on cash deposits and money market funds, and the interest payable on variable rate borrowings.
When the Company has cash balances, they are held on variable rate bank accounts yielding rates of interest dependent on the base rate determined by the Custodian, JPMorgan Chase.
The Company has an uncommitted bank overdraft facility of 15 million, which it uses for settlement purposes.
At the year end drawings on the Companys overdraft were nil 2008: nil.
All of the Companys long term debt of 200 million of debenture stocks is fixed which exposes the Company to changes in market value in the event that the debt is repaid before maturity.
Details of the debenture stock interest is shown in note 12, with details of its market value and the affect on net asset value in note 16.
The Company can invest in fixed income securities and at the year end the level of exposure was 21.2 million.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 53 Interest rate exposure At 31 March the exposure of financial assets and financial liabilities to interest rate risk is shown by reference to: floating interest rates giving cash flow interest rate risk when the interest rate is due to be re-set: and fixed interest rates giving fair value interest rate risk when the financial instrument is due for repayment.
2009 2008 MORE MORE THAN THAN WITHIN FIVE WITHIN FIVE ONE YEAR YEARS TOTAL ONE YEAR YEARS TOTAL 000 000 000 000 000 000 Exposure to floating interest rates: Investments at fair value through profit or loss 8,557 8,557 Cash and money market funds 5 5 25,444 25,444 Exposure to fixed interest rates: Investments at fair value through profit or loss 12,692 12,692 Debentures 196,607 196,607 196,356 196,356 Total exposure to interest rates 5 175,358 175,353 25,444 196,356 170,912 The nominal interest rates on the investments at fair value through profit or loss are shown in the portfolio statement on pages 11 and 12.
The weighted average effective interest rate on these investments is 8.5% 2008: n a as none held.
Other price risk Other price risks i. e. changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk may affect the value of the equity investments, but it is the business of the Manager to manage the portfolio to achieve the best return that he can.
Management of the other price risk The Directors manage the market price risks inherent in the investment portfolio by meeting regularly to monitor on a formal basis the Managers compliance with the Companys stated objectives and policies and to review investment performance.
The Companys portfolio is the result of the Managers investment process and need not be highly correlated with the Companys benchmark or the market in which the Company invests.
The value of the portfolio will not move in line with the market but will move as a result of the performance of the company shares within the portfolio.
If the value of the portfolio fell by 10% at the balance sheet date, the profit after tax for the year would decrease by 84 million 2008: 106 million.
Conversely, if the value of the portfolio rose by 10%, the profit after tax would increase by the 84 million 2008: 106 million.
