New Articles of Association Explanatory Notes The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association the Articles to reflect the changes in company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which came into effect on 1 October 2009 and changes made to the 2006 Act in August 2009 to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK, as well as some minor technical or clarifying changes.
This would allow the Company to take advantage of the greater flexibility afforded by the 2006 Act, simplify the wording of the Articles, and ensure that the Company takes advantage of any modernisation of procedures.
The principal changes of substance in the new Articles of Association proposed to be adopted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting relate to shareholder meetings and resolutions, the Companys constitution and share capital.
The provisions of the 2006 Act regarding shareholder meetings and resolutions came into force in October 2007, replacing the corresponding provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The new Articles incorporate amendments in relation to meetings and resolutions to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act.
In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the 2006 Act on company meetings by The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK.
The new Articles incorporate amendments in relation to meetings to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Under the 2006 Act all provisions of the Companys Memorandum, but most significantly the objects clause, were deemed to form part of the Companys Articles from 1 October 2009.
It is possible for the objects clause to be removed or amended by amending the Articles by special resolution.
It is not necessary under the 2006 Act for a company to set out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, unless the articles state otherwise, a companys objects will be unrestricted.
One of the other key provisions of the Memorandum which is deemed to form part of the Companys Articles from 1 October 2009 is the existing authorised share capital.
The 2006 Act removes the requirement for a company to place limits on its authorised share capital.
By adopting the new Articles which do not contain the objects clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys Articles under section 28 of the 2006 Act, from its Articles.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments please refer to the Notes to this document on pages 78 to 83.
A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association that reflect these amendments will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company up until the close of the meeting.
Copies will also be available at the location of the Annual General Meeting on the morning of the Meeting from 11.45am until its conclusion.
The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which replaced the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act was implemented in stages and was fully in force by 1 October 2009.
In addition, the Shareholders Rights Regulations which amend certain provisions of the 2006 Act relating to Meetings of the Company came into force in August 2009.
Under Resolution 10, the Company is adopting new Articles of Association the Articles which will reflect the changes in company law brought about by the Shareholders Rights Regulations and by the provisions on the 2006 Act which came into effect on 1 October 2009.
The Articles also include some other modernising and clarificatory amendments, including, where appropriate, tracking the wording of the new model form articles for public companies contained in Schedule 3 to the Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 the Model Form Articles, which replace the Table A Articles under the 1985 Act on which many of the Companys current Articles are based.
Set out below is a summary of the principal changes.
77 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Information Notice of Annual General Meeting New Articles of Association Explanatory Notes Information 1 The Companys Objects The 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a company's memorandum.
The provisions governing the operations of the Company are currently set out in both its Memorandum of Association and its Articles of Association.
Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum no longer contains an objects clause and simply records the names of the subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber agreed to take in the Company.
Under section 28 of the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the Memorandum are treated as part of the Articles with effect from 1 October 2009 but the Company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
Unless the Articles provide otherwise, the Company's objects will be unrestricted.
The Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are treated as forming part of the Company's Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Resolution 10 confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts the new Articles.
2 Limited Liability Article 5 Under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association also no longer contains a clause stating that the liability of the members of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this statement is automatically treated as having moved into the articles on 1 October 2009.
As noted above, Resolution 10 confirms the removal, from the Company's Articles of Association, of the provisions of the Company's Memorandum of Association which are treated as forming part of the Company's Articles of Association by virtue of section 28 of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited liability.
An explicit statement of the members' limited liability is therefore included in the new Articles.
3 Authorised Share Capital and Unissued Shares The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital and under the 2006 Act, the Memorandum of Association no longer contains a statement of the Company's authorised share capital.
For existing companies, this statement is deemed to be a provision of the company's articles of association setting out the maximum amount of shares that may be allotted by the company.
The adoption of the new Articles by the Company will have the effect of removing this provision relating to the maximum amount.
Directors will still need to obtain the usual shareholders' authorisation in order to allot shares, except in respect of employee share schemes.
References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have therefore been removed from the new Articles.
4 Redeemable Shares Article 7 Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not include the terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of redeemable shares provided they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The new Articles contain such authorisation.
The Company currently has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors would need shareholders' authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
5 Share Certificates Article 15 The new Articles contain new provisions for the issue of consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form articles.
6 Transfer of Shares Articles 33 and 34 Under the 2006 Act, a company must either register a transfer or give the transferee notice of, and reasons for, its refusal to register the transfer.
Any registration of a transfer or notice of refusal must be made or given as soon as practicable and in any event within two months from the date that the transfer is lodged with the company.
The new Articles reflect these requirements.
The Company cannot in any event refuse to transfer a fully paid share except in very limited circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons.
The provision which gave the ability to suspend the registration of transfers of shares for periods not exceeding 30 days in any one year has been removed from the new Articles as there is no ability under the 2006 Act to close the register.
78 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 Disclosure of Interests Article 41 The provisions relating to the disclosure of interests in shares contained in the 1985 Act, including Section 212 on company investigation powers, were repealed in January 2007.
Section 793 and related sections in Part 22 of the 2006 Act, which contain the corresponding company investigation powers previously contained in Section 212, were brought into force simultaneously.
Article 41 reflects the replacement of Section 212 of the 1985 Act with Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
8 Authority to Purchase own Shares, Consolidate and Sub-divide Shares, and Reduce Share Capital Article 43 Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific authorisations in its articles of association to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies do not require specific authorisations in their articles of association to undertake these actions: but shareholder authority is still required.
Amendments have been made to the new Articles to reflect these changes, although the explicit authority to purchase its own shares has been retained in Article 14.
9 Quorum Article 50 Article 50 has been amended to make it clear that three persons who are proxies for the same member or representatives of the same body corporate can constitute a quorum.
10 Attending and Speaking at Meetings Article 56 Article 56 of the new Articles now provides that the Chairman of the Meeting may permit non-members or persons who are not entitled to exercise the rights of members to attend and, at the Chairmans discretion, speak at a general meeting.
11 Participation in Meetings at Different Places and by Electronic Means Article 57 Amendments made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations specifically provide for the holding and conducting of electronic meetings.
The new Articles include amendments to provide greater scope for members to participate in meetings of the Company even if they are not present in person at the principal place where the meeting is being held.
The amendments allow for members to participate not only by attendance at satellite meeting locations, but also by any other electronic means of participation.
12 Adjournments Article 59 The Shareholders Rights Regulations add a provision to the 2006 Act which requires that, when a general meeting is adjourned due to lack of quorum, at least ten days notice must be given to reconvene the meeting.
The new Articles include amendments to the provisions dealing with notice of adjourned meetings to make them consistent with this new requirement.
13 Polls Article 62 Article 62 has been amended to clarify that a poll may be demanded before a vote on a show of hands, as well as immediately after the result of a show of hands, and to give the Directors the right to demand a poll as well as the Chairman of the Meeting.
14 Removal of Chairmans Casting Vote Former Article 57 Pursuant to changes brought about by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, a traded company is no longer permitted to allow the Chairman to have a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes.
Accordingly, this provision has been removed in the new Articles.
79 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Information New Articles of Association Explanatory Notes Information 15 Voting Rights Article 68 The Shareholders Rights Regulations clarify the various powers of proxies and representatives of corporate members in respect of resolutions taken on a show of hands.
Where a proxy has been duly appointed by one member, he has one vote on a show of hands unless he has been appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been appointed by more than one member to vote for the resolution and by more than one member to vote against the resolution.
Where a corporate member appoints representatives to attend meetings on its behalf, each representative duly appointed by a corporate member has one vote on a show of hands.
The new Articles contain provisions which clarify these rights and also clarify how the provisions giving a proxy a second vote on a show of hands should apply to discretionary powers.
16 Voting Record Date Article 69 The new Articles include a new provision, which was not previously in the Companys Articles of Association, dealing with the method for determining which persons are allowed to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company and how many votes each person may cast.
Under this new provision, when convening a meeting the Company may specify a time, not more than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting excluding any part of a day that is not a working day, by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the Meeting.
This new provision is in line with a requirement for listed companies introduced by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
17 Validity of Votes Article 73 Following the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Regulations, proxies are expressly required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them by members.
The new Articles contain a provision stating that the Company is not required to enquire whether a proxy or corporate representative has voted in accordance with instructions given to him and that votes cast by a proxy or corporate representative will be valid even if he has not voted in accordance with his instructions.
18 Appointing Proxies and Corporate Representatives Articles 74 and 81 Under the 2006 Act, members may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
The new Articles reflect these new proxy rights.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple corporate representatives to be appointed and the new Articles therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate representatives.
The new Articles also provide that the Company can require a corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution appointing him before permitting him to exercise his powers.
19 Receipt of Appointments of Proxy and Termination of Proxy Authority Articles 78 and 79 Article 78 provides that proxies for a poll to be taken after the date of a meeting or adjourned meeting must be received not less than 24 hours, or such shorter time as the Directors may determine, before the time of the poll.
The deadlines for receipt of termination of proxy authority have been brought into line with the deadlines for receipt of proxies.
Article 78 also permits the Directors to specify, in a notice of meeting, that in determining the time for delivery of proxies, no account shall be taken of non-working days.
Article 79 provides that the termination of a proxys authority should be in writing as this is required by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
20 Retirement of Directors by Rotation Article 88 Article 88 requires any Non-Executive Director other than the Chairman who has held office for nine years or more to put himself up for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
This amendment is recommended good governance.
80 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Alternate Directors Articles 94, 96 and 98 Article 94 now clarifies that an Alternate Director is entitled to be paid expenses but not Directors Fees.
Article 96 is a new provision which effectively applies the provisions of Article 92, regarding removal of Directors, to Alternate Directors.
Article 98 c makes it clear that an alternate is subject to the same restrictions as the Director who appointed him.
22 Borrowing Powers Article 107 A number of presentational and descriptive amendments have been made to the borrowing powers provision.
Under the current Articles, borrowings of the Group are restricted to the sum of certain amounts as shown in the Companys latest audited balance sheet as adjusted by variations in the share capital and share premium accounts.
This remains unchanged, however the last paragraph of Article 107 1 formerly Article 102 has been amended to also allow the Company to adjust for variations in its capital redemption reserve.
The principle here is that the Company should be able to reflect capital transactions which have occurred since the balance sheet date i. e. both issues of shares and redemptions or buy-backs of shares.
References to sterling have been replaced with a reference to the Groups presentational currency, in order to allow for presenting accounts in other currencies.
Additional wording has been included in Articles 107 1 a and 107 3 e to clarify how preference shares should be treated for the purposes of the borrowing powers.
Under IFRS and UK GAAP preference shares are now treated as debt on a companys balance sheet, rather than equity.
The additional wording included in Articles 107 1 a and 107 3 e reflects this accounting treatment.
The effect of this wording is to exclude the amount of the preference share capital from the calculation of the companys share capital and reserves and to include such amount in the calculation of the Companys borrowings.
23 Provisions for Employees on Cessation or Transfer of Business Article 108 The 2006 Act provides that the powers of the directors to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by a company or any of its subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer of the whole or part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary may only be exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the companys articles or by the company in general meeting.
Article 108 provides that the Directors may exercise this power.
24 Directors Appointments, Interests and Conflicts of Interest Articles 116 and 117 The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Some of these changes were already reflected in the current Articles, and the proposed changes simply bring the conflicts provisions and provisions on Directors interests fully in line with the 2006 Act as described below.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
Article 116, which is the provision for dealing with conflicts in the Companys current Articles, allowing Directors to be interested in transactions and to be an officer of or employed by or interested in a body corporate in which the Company is interested provided that he has disclosed his interest in accordance with the Articles and the provisions of the Acts, confirms that such interests, offices or employment will not infringe the conflicts duty as codified in the 2006 Act.
Article 117 also contains provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board Meetings and availability of Board Papers to protect a Director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict falls within the situations covered by Article 116.
81 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Information New Articles of Association Explanatory Notes Information 25 Procedures Regarding Board Meetings & Resolutions in Writing Articles 118 & 122 The provisions of Article 118 have been amended to make it clear that notice of a board meeting may be given personally, by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
The requirements for giving notice to Directors who are not in the United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the procedure for written resolutions of Directors, Article 122 has been amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in writing by all Directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a meeting if executed by all the Directors entitled to receive notice of the meeting and who would have been entitled to vote and whose vote would have been counted on a resolution at a meeting.
26 Quorum Article 123 The proposed amendment to Article 123, which deals with the quorum requirement for Board Meetings, clarifies that a Director cannot count in the quorum for a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled to vote or when his vote cannot be counted but he may count in the quorum for the other matters or resolutions to be considered or voted on at the Meeting.
27 Permitted Interests and Voting Article 124 Article 124 has been amended to allow a Director to vote on a resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding for expenditure incurred in defending proceedings provided all the other Directors have been given or are to be given arrangements on substantially the same terms.
This exception has become a common exception for listed companies to include.
28 Removal of Age Limit for Directors The provision requiring a Directors age to be disclosed, in a notice of meeting at which that Director is to be appointed or reappointed, if that Director has attained the age of 70 years or more, has been removed from the new Articles to reflect the repeal of the previous provisions regarding directors over 70 from the 1985 Act.
29 Notices and other Communications Articles 150-159 Article 154 is the Article covering service of notice in the event of a postal strike: it has been amended to allow the Company in such circumstances to serve notices only on those members who receive notices via electronic means, provided that, as before, the Company also puts an advertisement in two national newspapers and sends a confirmatory hard copy notice if the postal service is available again within seven days of the meeting.
Article 158 deals with notices, documents or information sent by the Company to a member which have been returned undelivered on three consecutive occasions.
The member will only be entitled to be sent further communications upon provision of a new postal or electronic address to the Company.
30 Making and Retention of Minutes Article 160 Article 160 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the relevant provision of the 2006 Act.
No minimum retention time was previously specified.
31 The Seal Articles 168 and 169 Article 168 provides an alternative option in the absence of specific instructions from the Directors for documents other than share certificates to which the seal is affixed to be signed by one authorised person in the presence of a witness, in addition to either two Directors or a Director and the Secretary.
32 Change of Name Article 172 Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company is able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
82 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Power to Indemnify Directors Article 174 The Directors Indemnity provision has been amended to make it clear that the Company may, subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is the trustee of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision in the 2006 Act.
83 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Information New Articles of Association Explanatory Notes
