Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration Under section 439 of the 2006 Act the directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations, for the approval of the members.
The Report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 42 to 50 of the report and accounts.
Items 3 and 4: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Colin Peter Holmes and David James Ritchie will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Colin Peter Holmes as a non-executive director, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2009 that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on page 32 of the report and accounts.
Items 5 and 6: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 5 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 6 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 7: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 80 of the 1985 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 of the 2006 Act which has superseded section 80 of the 1985 Act to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,170,703 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,341,406 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Association of British Insurers.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,170,703 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 12 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,341,406 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 12 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 12 March 2010.
The board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
Item 8: The Bovis Homes Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 Introduction The LTIP is a share incentive plan that is designed to encourage and reward participants for delivering long term shareholder value.
It replaces the Companys long term incentive plan that was approved by shareholders in 2000 and which will come to an end in May 2010.
The new LTIP will therefore be used for the first time later in 2010 or in 2011 when it is expected that awards under the LTIP will be granted to members of the senior management team including the executive directors.
The LTIP will be operated by the Remuneration Committee which will decide whether to grant awards under the LTIP in any year.
No awards may be granted under the LTIP more than 10 years after its adoption by shareholders in general meeting.
Eligibility and award procedure Any employee or executive director of a member of the Group will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants may be granted awards under which they may acquire ordinary shares in the Company Shares for no payment.
Awards may take the form of an option to acquire Shares at a nil exercise price, an allocation of Shares that may be forfeited in certain circumstances, a conditional share award which entitles a participant to acquire or receive Shares for no payment or a phantom award under which a participant may be paid a cash sum having a value equivalent to a notional number of Shares each an Award.
Awards may be granted within 42 days after the date of the AGM at which the LTIP is approved by shareholders: the announcement of the Companys results for any period: or the occurrence of any exceptional circumstances which the Remuneration Committee considers justifies the grant of awards.
No payment is required for the grant of awards.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 83 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Value of awards Award levels will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The maximum number of Shares over which an Award may be granted to an employee in any financial year may not have a market value at the date of grant calculated by reference to the middle market quotation of a Share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange exceeding 200% of the eligible employees basic salary.
The Remuneration Committee will ordinarily grant awards to a maximum of 100% of basic salary, but wishes to retain the flexibility to grant awards at a higher level should exceptional circumstances arise and would not otherwise propose granting awards above 100% without consulting with major shareholders.
Benefits received under the Plan are not pensionable and may not be transferred or assigned except on a participants death or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Performance conditions and vesting Awards will be subject to performance conditions that will be determined by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant and which, it is anticipated, will comprise total shareholder return and earnings per share growth and be similar to those in use for the Long Term Incentive Plan 2000.
These will be measured over a performance period that will normally not be less than three years.
The extent to which the performance conditions are satisfied will determine whether the Award vests and how many if any of the Shares under an Award a participant is entitled to acquire or in the case of an allocation of forfeitable shares, to retain.
If the performance conditions are not met, an Award will not vest and will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee intends to set performance conditions appropriate to the Company that are demanding and stretching in the light of the prevailing market conditions.
Vesting levels will be determined on a sliding scale by reference to the achievement of the performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that an Award should be subject to multiple conditions or that an Award should be divided and that each part be subject to a different condition.
The Remuneration Committee may set different performance conditions for Awards granted in different years.
The Remuneration Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to existing Awards if an event occurs which results in the conditions no longer being a fair measure of performance provided that in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee the new conditions are not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions the vesting period for Awards will normally be at least three years from the date of grant but the Remuneration Committee may set a longer period.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that an Award should be divided and that each part should be subject to a different vesting period.
Vested share awards will be released to participants automatically within 30 days of the date the Shares vest.
Vested share options will be exercisable up until the tenth anniversary of the date of grant, after which they will lapse.
Vested forfeitable Shares will cease to be subject to the risk of forfeiture.
On vesting of an Award a participant will be entitled to additional Shares equal to the value of dividends net of any tax credit that would have been paid on the vested Shares in the period from the date of grant to the vesting date assuming that those dividends had been reinvested in Shares at the dividend payment date.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that upon vesting any Shares that are acquired shall be subject to restrictions prohibiting the sale of the Shares other than to meet immediate tax liabilities for a period of time.
Cessation of Employment Awards will normally only vest if a participant remains in employment with the Group up to the vesting date.
If a participant ceases employment by reason of death, injury, disability, ill health, redundancy, retirement as agreed by the Remuneration Committee, or following his or her employing company or business ceasing to be part of the Group or for any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion, he may retain his Award so that it may vest at the normal vesting date to the extent that the performance conditions as measured at the end of the normal performance period are satisfied but subject to a time pro rating reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period during which the participant has not been in employment.
The Remuneration Committee will, however, retain the discretion to allow an unvested Award to vest immediately on leaving, having regard to the achievement of the performance conditions and the period of time that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of leaving.
In either case the Remuneration Committee may determine that the pro rating reduction shall not apply or should apply to a lesser extent.
The Remuneration Committee may take account of such factors as it considers relevant, including the conduct of the participant.
If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group before the vesting date for any other reason, vested and unvested Awards will automatically lapse or be forfeited on such cessation.
Change of control or other corporate event In the event of a change of control of the Company, a scheme of arrangement or a voluntary winding up, unvested Awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at the time of the relevant event.
The number of Shares that a participant may acquire will be reduced on a time pro rated basis to reflect the early vesting although the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to allow a greater number of Shares not exceeding the total number of Shares under an award to vest having regard to all relevant factors and circumstances at the time.
Alternatively participants may, with the agreement of an acquiring company, release their Awards in consideration of the grant of an equivalent award relating to shares in the acquiring company or another company in the acquiring companys group.
The Remuneration Committee may in its discretion, in appropriate circumstances, determine that Awards may not be exercised by virtue of a change of control but will automatically be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in an acquiring company.
Awards will not be exercisable without the consent of the Remuneration Committee in the event of any internal reorganisation, the purpose and effect of which is to create a new holding company.
84 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Equity dilution Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new Shares, a transfer of treasury shares or the transfer of existing Shares.
To the extent that new Shares are issued to satisfy Awards under the LTIP, the institutional investors guidelines on dilution of equity in connection with share schemes will apply.
The number of Shares which may be issued or become issuable pursuant to options and awards granted in the preceding ten years under all of the Companys share schemes including the LTIP is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time: and the number that may be issued or become issuable pursuant to options and awards granted in the preceding ten years under all of the Companys discretionary share schemes including the LTIP is limited to 5% of such issued share capital.
The satisfaction of Awards with treasury shares will be treated as an issue of Shares for the purposes of these limits for so long as institutional shareholder guidelines recommend this.
If Awards are to be satisfied by the transfer of existing Shares, the percentage limits stated above will not apply.
Adjustment of awards The Remuneration Committee may adjust the number of Shares subject to Awards in the event of a variation in the share capital of the Company for example a rights or capitalisation issue, a sub-division, consolidation or reduction of share capital or if the Company implements a transaction such as a demerger or payment of a special dividend that would affect the value of an Award.
Rights attaching to Shares A participant will not have any voting or dividend rights in relation to Shares prior to the vesting of a share award or the exercise of an option.
Any Shares allotted or transferred when a share award vests or an option is exercised will rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date before their allotment.
Application will be made for the Shares to be listed by the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Amendments The Remuneration Committee may amend the LTIP provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments to key features of the LTIP which would be to the advantage of participants or eligible employees.
Key features of the LTIP include eligibility, the limits on the number of Shares that may be issued under the LTIP, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to Shares, the terms on which they can be acquired and the provisions relating to adjustments in the event of a variation in the Companys share capital.
Such approval will not be required for any minor alteration which is made to benefit the administration of the LTIP, to take account of new or existing legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for the Company or eligible employees or participants.
Amendments that would adversely affect participants subsisting rights may not be made without the consent of participants.
Item 9: Scrip dividend alternative The directors wish to continue to be able to offer shareholders the opportunity to elect to receive new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends if they so wish.
Accordingly, the approval of shareholders is sought at the Annual General Meeting to authorise the Board to offer scrip dividends as an alternative to cash dividends in respect of future final or interim dividends for a period of up to five years, if on each occasion they decide that it is in the Companys interests to do so.
Item 10: Adoption of New Articles Resolution 10 proposes the adoption of the New Articles in order to update the Companys existing Articles of Association, primarily to reflect the implementation of the remaining provisions of the 2006 Act which the Company has not already incorporated into its existing Articles of Association, the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations and certain amendments to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Summarised below are the material differences between the existing Articles of Association and the New Articles.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature, or conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies, have not been mentioned specifically.
The New Articles are available for inspection as explained in the notes to the Notice.
Limited liability At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed to remove all provisions of the Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, were treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of Association as from 1 October 2009.
Among other things, the effect of this resolution was to remove the statement which was in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability.
The New Articles therefore contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of the shareholders.
Redeemable shares If a company wished to issue redeemable shares, the 1985 Act required the terms and manner of redemption to be set out in its articles.
The 2006 Act enables directors to determine such matters if they are authorised by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company currently has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need members authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Transfer of shares The 2006 Act requires the Company to give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Under the 1985 Act, a company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as member authority to undertake the relevant action.
The existing Articles of Association include these enabling provisions.
Under the 2006 Act a company only requires member authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Amendments have been made to the New Articles to reflect these changes.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 85 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Use of seals Under the 1985 Act, a company could have an official seal for use abroad only if its articles gave authority.
Under the 2006 Act, such authority is no longer required and has been removed from the New Articles.
Suspension of registration of share transfers The existing Articles of Association permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the 2006 Act share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the existing Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
Vacation of office by directors The existing Articles of Association specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
The New Articles update these provisions to reflect the approach taken on mental and physical incapacity in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands The Shareholders Rights Regulations amended the 2006 Act to clarify the rules that apply when a members proxy casts votes for different shares in different ways.
On a vote on a show of hands, every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more members entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote, but the proxy has one vote for and one vote against the resolution if: a the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on the resolution, and b the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by other members to vote against it.
The existing Articles of Association have been amended to reflect these changes.
Voting by corporate representatives The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 2006 Act in order to enable multiple representatives appointed by the same corporate member to vote in different ways on a show of hands and a poll.
The New Articles contain provisions which reflect these amendments.
Chairmans casting vote The New Articles do not contain a provision giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted under the 2006 Act.
Adjournments for lack of quorum The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 2006 Act to require that meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least ten clear days after the original meeting.
The existing Articles of Association have been changed to reflect this requirement by giving the Chairman discretion to set the time and place of a general meeting subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act.
Voting record date The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the 2006 Act to require a company to determine the right of members to vote at a general meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, ignoring days which are not working days.
The New Articles reflect this requirement.
Returned notices The New Articles introduce a new provision to the effect that if any documents or information, sent by the Company to a member by post in accordance with the New Articles, have been returned undelivered on at least two consecutive occasions or on one occasion and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the members address, the member will only be entitled to receive such further communications upon provision of a new address to the Company.
General We have taken the opportunity to clarify some other wording of the existing Articles of Association.
In some areas we thought it appropriate to conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
Item 11: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that ability to call a general meeting on 14 days' notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances where the shorter notice period was to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 12: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 12 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,328,934 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 12 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
86 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 12 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 13: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,315,737 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 12 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2011.
As at 12 March 2010 there were options over 1,272,010 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.96% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 1.06% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
