01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies b Transactions with minority interests The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests Financial Statements are set out below.
Except as explained below, these as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority policies have been consistently applied to the years presented.
interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Purchases from minority interests result Basis of preparation in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the The Financial Statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRIC interpretations and with those c Associates parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but IFRS.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical not control, over the financial and operating policies and in which the Group cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial generally has between 20% and 50% voting power.
The Group accounts for assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative associates using the equity method.
Under this method, the Consolidated instruments at fair value through the profit or loss.
Financial Statements show the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates and their net assets, from the date that significant The Evolution Group Plc is a UK listed holding company for financial influence or joint control commences until the date they cease.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated over net asset value paid to acquire an interest in an associate is recognised as and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is: goodwill, within the same line as the underlying investment.
Discontinued operations and disposal groups held-for-sale A summary of the Group accounting policies is set out below, together with When the Group is committed to dispose of a business segment that an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the represents a separate major line of business, and it is intended that such a adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
disposal will be completed within one year of the decision to sell, it classifies such a business segment as a discontinued operation.
The assets of disposal Changes in presentation groups are presented separately from other assets on the Balance Sheet and The presentation of trade and other receivables and trade and other payables the liabilities of disposal groups are presented separately from other liabilities as at 31 December 2008 has been changed to reflect the correct netting of on the Balance Sheet.
The assets and liabilities of the disposal groups certain balances aggregating 14.5 million with the same counterparties classified as held-for-sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and where the netting criteria are met in accordance with the Groups accounting fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative Balance Sheet is not restated.
The post-tax result of the discontinued operation is shown as a single amount on the face of the Income Statement, with a restatement of the comparative Significant accounting policies period.
In determining the post-tax result of the discontinued operation only those central costs that will be eliminated on disposal are allocated to the Basis of consolidation discontinued operation.
The Groups Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
On 1 April 2009 the Company announced the completion of an investment in ESCL by First Eastern Financial Holdings Limited.
As a result of this a Investments in subsidiary undertakings transaction the Groups interest in ESCL has fallen to 48.5%.
Prior to the Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the completion of this transaction in 2009 the Group consolidated ESCL and Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally presented it as a discontinued operation.
From 1 April 2009 ESCL and its accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The subsidiary have been deconsolidated and are accounted for by the equity existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable method of accounting.
or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which Income recognition control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable for that control ceases.
A list of subsidiaries held by the Group and Company is the sale of services in the ordinary course of the Groups activities.
Revenue disclosed in note 6 of the parent Company accounts.
is recognised when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow All intra Group transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation into the Group.
and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the Group for the purpose of consolidation.
a Fee and commission income Fee and commission income includes transaction income, commission The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of income, trail commission, placing commission, retainer income, initial businesses and subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair commission and fees from asset management activities including interest value of the identifiable assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities income on private client assets, net of payaway to Independent Financial or contingent liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, together Advisers, introducers and self-employed half commission persons.
with any costs directly related to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable Initial commissions received from clients are capitalised in the Balance assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Sheet, as deferred income and amortised over the average holding period If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of of five years, being the relevant period in which the relationship between the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary the commission earned and the assets under management to which such acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the Consolidated commissions relate is believed to exist.
Fees and commissions are recognised in the Income Statement when the related services are performed and all legal conditions have been satisfied, and when considered recoverable.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 47 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Group companies 1.
Accounting Policies continued The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated b Fee and commission expenses into the presentation currency as follows: Fee and commission expenses include amounts paid to other third parties in assets and liabilities for each Balance Sheet presented are translated at the connection with corporate finance fee income such as introduction fees.
Costs closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet: incurred in the normal course of executing commission transactions across our exchanges and settling through recognised networks are also included.
income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the c Trading income cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which Trading income from market making and principal trading activities case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets transactions : and and liabilities held for trading, together with any related dividend income all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component on positions held.
Costs incurred in the normal course of executing trading in equity which is fair value and other reserves.
transactions across our exchanges and settling through recognised networks are included within other administrative expenses.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at Trading income also includes derivative contracts relating to equity options the closing rate.
and warrants received in lieu of corporate finance fees.
Finance income and expense d Other income Interest income and expense for all interest-bearing financial instruments, Other income includes fees for probate valuations, foreign exchange gains except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value and losses resulting from the re-translation and settlement of foreign currency through profit or loss, are recognised within finance income and finance transactions, commitment fees and bridging loan fees and interest on facilities expense in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
offered to corporate clients and any dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest income on segregated client money accounts which Goodwill relates to Evolution Securities Limited is included within this category.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the identifiable assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities or contingent liabilities Operating leases incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, together with any costs directly Rentals applicable to operating leases where substantially all the benefits and related to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of an acquisition over risk of ownership remain with the lessor are charged to the Income Statement the Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and on a straight line basis over the lease term.
contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses, which are charged to the Income Lease incentives are credited to the Income Statement and spread over the Statement.
Intangible assets Segment reporting Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal accumulated impairment losses, if any.
The following are the main categories reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating of other intangible assets: decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources, making strategic decisions and assessing the performance of operating segments, has been Intangible assets with a finite useful life identified as the Group Board of Directors.
a Brands: Purchased brands are capitalised at cost less amortisation on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and impairment.
Foreign currency translation Expenditure incurred to develop or maintain brands internally is recognised as an expense in the period incurred.
a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups entities are b Distribution channels and customer relationships: Purchased distribution measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which channels and customer relationships are capitalised at cost less the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial amortisation on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives Statements of the Group are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys and impairment.
functional and the Groups presentation currency.
c Computer software: Acquired computer software licenses are stated at cost, including those costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific b Transactions and balances software, less amortisation on a straight line basis over their estimated Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency useful lives and impairment.
using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions The following useful lives have been determined for intangible assets: and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Income Computer software 2 to 3 years Statement.
Customer relations 5 years Brand 5 years Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair Distribution channels 5 years value through profit or loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items such as equities classified as available-for-sale financial assets are included in the fair value reserve in equity.
48 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life The Group has financial assets and financial liabilities that offset to a net Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA Licence amount when presented in the Financial Statements.
This arises when the Costs associated with the acquisition of the US Broker Dealer, Evolution Group transacts with central clearing counterparties that it does not hold a Securities US Inc ESUS, are deemed to relate to the FINRA licence only.
direct membership with, and is therefore contractually obliged to settle any The licence is deemed to have an indefinite life, based on the continuing outstanding financial assets or liabilities on a net basis.
In all other cases the FINRA membership having no fixed life, and consequently is not being Group presents its financial assets and financial liabilities on a gross basis as amortised.
per its standard terms and conditions.
Financial Services Authority FSA Regulatory Status Trading portfolio assets and liabilities Costs associated with the acquisition of WDB Capital Limited and WDB Financial assets and liabilities are classified as held for trading if acquired Asset Management Limited, are deemed to relate to its FSA regulatory principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term or if so designated by status.
The regulatory status is deemed to have an indefinite life, based on management.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade continuing FSA membership having no fixed life, and consequently is not date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets Property, plant and equipment Available-for-sale financial assets are either designated in this category or All property, plant and equipment PPE is shown at cost less depreciation are not classified in any other category.
Available-for-sale financial assets and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be acquisition of the item.
Depreciation on PPE is calculated using the straightsold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange line basis to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its rates or equity prices.
They are initially recognised at fair value and are estimated useful life, as follows: subsequently held at fair value.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also evidence that the assets are Computers and similar equipment 3 to 5 years impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, Fixtures, fittings, and other equipment the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition including leasehold improvements 3 to 5 years cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement unless the related Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and PPE asset is subsequently disposed of at a gain to the impaired valuation.
Gains Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are and losses arising from changes in fair values are included as a separate not subject to amortisation or depreciation and are tested annually for component of equity within fair value and other reserves until sale or impairment.
Other intangibles and PPE are assessed at the reporting date when impaired.
or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The impairment review comprises a Measurement of trading portfolio assets and liabilities and comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount available-for-sale financial assets of the asset or cash generating unit for goodwill and intangible assets with For trading portfolio assets and liabilities and available-for-sale financial an indefinite useful life.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets assets that are quoted in active markets, fair values are determined by or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
An reference to the current quoted bid offer price, with trading portfolio assets impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement in the period in marked to the bid price and trading portfolio liabilities marked at the which it occurs for the amount by which the assets or cash generating offer price.
Where independent prices are not available, fair values may be units carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The assets residual determined using valuation techniques with reference to observable market values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if necessary at each data.
These may include comparison to similar instruments where market Balance Sheet date.
observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models such as Black-Scholes and other valuation techniques commonly used by Financial assets and liabilities market participants.
The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities as trading portfolio assets and liabilities, available-for-sale financial assets, derivative financial The Group makes an assessment at each Balance Sheet date as to whether instruments, stock borrowing and lending, trade and other receivables, there is any objective evidence of impairment.
In the case of equity cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables.
The classification investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline depends on the purpose for which the assets and liabilities were acquired.
in the fair value of the security below its cost is evidence that the asset is Management determines the classification of its investments at initial impaired in which case the cumulative loss measured as the difference recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the Income Statement is Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs removed from equity and recognised in the Income Statement.
for all financial assets not carried at fair value through the profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially Derivative financial instruments recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the Income Derivatives are initially accounted for and measured at fair value on the date Statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
cash flows from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to the Income Statement within transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
All derivatives are included in assets when their fair value liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the is positive and liabilities when their fair value is negative, unless there is the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
legal ability and intention to settle net.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 49 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued period to bring the building back into a suitable state discounted to the net present value using an effective discount rate that reliably calculates the The regular way purchase or sale of held for trading financial assets is present value of the future obligation.
Where a leases break clause is shorter recognised using trade date accounting.
A regular way purchase or sale than 1 year and the Group expects to exercise the break clause the provision is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms is transferred from the provision account with the Balance Sheet to current require delivery of the asset within the time frames established generally liabilities trade and other payables.
by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned.
Purchases or sales that do not fall within the regular way classification generally beyond Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be three days settlement are treated as derivatives in the period between the confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the trade date and the settlement date, i. e. as a forward purchase or sale of transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
The contract value i. e. the trade date receivable or payable of such Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the Financial Statements, transactions is not recorded on the Balance Sheet, but the change in fair value however, they are disclosed unless considered remote.
is recognised on the Balance Sheet and Income Statement within trading income in the intervening period between the trade date and settlement date.
Employee benefits Stock borrowing and lending a Pension obligations The Group enters into stock borrowing and lending arrangements with The Group does not offer any Group pension schemes.
However, the Group certain institutions on a collateralised basis with securities or cash advanced does make defined contributions to employees approved personal pension or received as collateral.
The transfer of securities to institutions is not plans, and the costs of these are charged to the Income Statement when they reflected on the Balance Sheet.
Where cash collateral is advanced or received, are incurred.
an asset or liability is recorded at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received.
Securities borrowed are recognised on the Balance Sheet and are b Share-based plans recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value.
Fees charged in the The Groups management awards high-performing employees bonuses in course of borrowing are recorded on an accruals basis and included within the form of equity-settled share-based payments, from time to time, on a other operating expenses.
Interest received or paid on collateral is included discretionary basis.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair within finance income or expense.
value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model or, in the case of awards of call rights, which have an exercise Trade and other receivables price of 1p per ordinary share, the fair value is based on the market value Trade and other receivables which include counterparty receivables are at the time of grant discounted by the dividend yield over the expected life.
recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according The options are generally subject to a three year service vesting condition, to the original terms of the receivables.
Evidence that an impairment of and their fair value is recognised as an employee benefit expense with a the asset may be required includes ageing of the debt beyond 180 days, corresponding increase in retained earnings within equity over the vesting persistent lack of communication and internal awareness of third party period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction trading difficulties.
The amount of the provision is the difference between costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash the options are exercised.
flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses.
c Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP The ESOP allows every employee to purchase up to 1,500 worth of the Cash and cash equivalents Groups shares per annum on a tax efficient basis.
These are purchased For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include on a monthly basis and held in trust and are matched by shares issued by cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term highly the Company on a one-for-one basis.
Employees are entitled to receive liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and the matching shares after a period of 3 years employment.
The cost of the which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments matching shares is charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis are normally those with original maturities of three months or less and bank over the 3 year period.
Where an individuals employment is terminated with overdrafts.
the Company prior to completing the 3 year period, the life to date charge is reversed from the Income Statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables which includes counterparty payables are Current and deferred taxes recognised initially at fair value, which is the agreed market price at the time Current taxes are computed on a basis of the tax laws enacted or substantially goods or services are provided and are subsequently recorded at amortised enacted at the Balance Sheet date in the countries where the Groups cost using the effective interest rate.
The Group accrues for all goods and subsidiaries operate and generate income.
services consumed but as yet unbilled at amounts representing managements best estimate of fair value.
Deferred taxes are computed using the liability method, on temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying Provisions amounts in financial statements.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other past events where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither necessary to settle the obligation and it can be reliably estimated.
accounting nor taxable profit nor loss.
Provisions for dilapidation on leasehold premises are recognised as a liability Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences over the period to the next break clause within the lease and discounted to and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that fair value at an effective interest rate over the period of the property lease.
taxable profits will be available against which tax losses or deductible The accrual is based on expected costs to be incurred at the end of the lease temporary differences can be utilised.
50 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences Changes in accounting policies and disclosures arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to a New and amended standards adopted by the Group control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
as of 1 January 2009: IFRS 7, Financial instruments Disclosures amendment effective Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In particular the amendment equity, in which case the deferred tax is dealt with in other comprehensive requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of a fair value income or directly in equity.
measurement hierarchy: IFRS 8, Operating segments effective 1 January 2009.
The standard The Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation requires a management approach under which segmental information on exercise of certain employee share options under UK tax rules.
As is presented using the same method as that adopted for internal reporting explained under Share-based plans above, a compensation expense is purposes.
The presentation of segmental information in note 4 has been recorded in the Groups Income Statement over the period from the grant prepared using this method: date to the vesting date of the relevant options.
As there is a temporary IAS 23 amendment, Borrowing costs effective 1 January 2009. difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is The amendment requires borrowing costs directly attributable to recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset to be estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on capitalised.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs the Companys share price at the Balance Sheet date with the cumulative will be removed.
This has not had a material impact on the Group: amount of the compensation expense recorded in the Income Statement.
IAS 1 revised, Presentation of financial statements effective 1 January If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative 2009.
The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income amount of the remuneration expense, at the statutory tax rate, the excess and expenses in the statement of changes in equity, requiring non owner is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
changes in equity to be presented separately from owner changes in equity in a statement of comprehensive income.
As the change in accounting Share capital policy only impacts presentation aspects, there is no impact on earnings a Share issue costs per share: and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
IFRS 2 amendment, Share-based payment effective 1 January 2009.
This amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service conditions Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options and performance conditions only.
Other features of share based payments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
This amendment has not had a material impact on the Group.
b Treasury shares Where the Group purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group net of taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys share The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing holders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 or later periods, but the Group c Trust shares has not early adopted them: The Groups Employee Benefit Trust the Trust uses funds provided by IFRIC 17, Distribution of non-cash assets to owners is required to be the Group to meet the Groups obligations under the employee share option adopted for the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2010. schemes in place.
All shares acquired by the Trust are purchased on the This interpretation provides guidance on accounting arrangements open market.
The consideration paid, including any directly attributable whereby an entity distributes non-cash assets to shareholders whether as incremental costs net of taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the a distribution of reserves or as dividends.
IFRS 5 has also been amended Companys holders.
to require that assets are classified as held for distribution only when they are available for distribution in their present condition and the distribution d Dividend distribution is highly probable.
This is not expected to have a material impact on the Dividend distribution to the Groups shareholders is recognised in equity in Group: the Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Final dividends are recognised at the date they are approved by shareholders at the IAS 27 revised, Consolidated and separate financial statements is Annual General Meeting.
required to be adopted for the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2010.
The revised standard requires the effects of all Earnings per share transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable is no change in control, and these transactions will no longer result in to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares goodwill or gains and losses.
The standard also specifies the accounting in issue during the period, excluding those held in The Evolution Group Plc when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in equity is re-measured to fair Employees Share Trust which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings value, and a gain or loss is reconginsed in profit or loss.
The Group will per share, the weighted number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to apply IAS27 revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares and option costs January 2010, subject to endorsement by the EU: not yet charged to the Income Statement.
However, in accordance with IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations is required to be adopted IAS 33, potential ordinary shares are only considered dilutive when their for the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2010.
The conversion would decrease the profit per share or increase the loss per share revised standard results in changes to the acquisition method of business from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders.
The Group expects that this revision will impact the shares that may be considered dilutive while positive earnings are being accounting for business combinations: reported may not be dilutive while losses are incurred.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 51 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Based on forecasts the Group expects to recover its deferred tax assets within the next three years.
Further details of the deferred tax assets and its expected b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are recovery can be found in note 18 to the Financial Statements.
not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued IFRS 5 amendment, Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued If the Groups forecast were 10% higher or lower then the Group would still operations is required to be adopted for the Group for the financial expect to recover its deferred tax assets within the next three years.
The amendment clarifies that all of a subsidiarys assets and liabilities as held-for-sale if a partial disposal will 3.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management result in loss of control.
This is not expected to have a significant impact Through its normal operations, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, on the Group: the most significant of which are market, credit, and operational risks.
The IAS 1 amendment, Presentation of financial assets is required to be Group has limited exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Its strong cash and cash adopted for the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2010. equivalents position also ensures that it has low liquidity risk.
The amendment provides clarification that the potential settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to its classification as Risk Management Framework current or non current.
By amending the definition of current liability, the The Group Board is responsible for approving all risk management policies amendment permits a liability to be classified as non-current provided and for determining the overall risk appetite for the Group.
that the entity has an unconditional right to defer settlement by transfer of cash or other assets for at least 12 months after the accounting period The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups internal notwithstanding the fact that the Group could be required by the control and risk management systems.
counterparty to settle in shares at any time.
This is not expected to have a material impact on the Group: Risk Committee IAS 38 amendment, Intangible assets is required to be adopted for the The Groups Directors have delegated to a sub-committee, the Risk Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2010.
The amendment Committee, the responsibility for setting the risk management policies defines a prepayment as being recognised only if payment has been made applied by the Group and its subsidiaries.
in advance of receiving the right to goods or receipt of services.
The Group is assessing the implications of this change but currently does not expect it The purpose of the Risk Committee is to monitor and assess all types of risk to have a material impact: and within the Group and to ensure that internal controls are properly established IFRS 2 amendments, Group cash-settled share-based payment so that the Groups risk exposure is commensurate with the wishes of the transaction is required to be adopted for the Group for the financial Board.
In addition, the Risk Committee tracks external market events and year ending 31 December 2010.
In addition to incorporating IFRIC 8, tries to evaluate their impact on the Group.
The Risk Committee meets at Scope of IFRS 2 and IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share least monthly and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
transactions the amendments expand on the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the classification of group arrangements that were not covered by Risk Department that interpretation.
The new guidance is not expected to have a material The Risk Department has day-to-day responsibility for monitoring, impact on the Group or Companys Financial Statements.
mitigating and reporting risks within the Group and for escalating issues to senior management.
The Risk Department follows the guidelines laid down 2.
Critical Estimates and Judgements by the Credit Policy, the Credit Limit Book, the Trading Policy Statement The preparation of the Financial Statements requires the use of estimates and the Operational Risk Policy as approved by the Group Board, the and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
The Treasury Department is the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues responsible for hedging foreign exchange risk and for managing liquidity.
and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results Risk Reporting ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher The Group Board receives a monthly risk report detailing market and credit degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates risk exposures, operational risk incidents and losses and key risk indicators.
are significant to the Financial Statements are disclosed below.
In addition, the Risk Committee discusses significant exposures and reviews limit breaches or requests for temporary limit increases.
Intangible assets and goodwill impairment Goodwill and other intangible assets, such as customer relationships and a Management of Market Risk distribution channels, are tested for impairment based on the higher of valueMarket risk management seeks to identify and control the potential loss in-use or fair values less costs to sell.
The calculations require managements in value of Group assets arising from changes in market prices.
The assumptions and estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
principal risk for the Group is an adverse change in equity prices.
The Risk Departments role is to independently monitor, control and report this risk.
Based on the outcomes of the above prescribed analysis the Group believes the remaining carrying values of its intangible assets are held at appropriate It is important for senior management to be aware of the possible capital levels and do not require impairment.
implications of an adverse movement in prices.
Stress tests provide an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
However, even if the pre-tax discount rates used by management had The stress tests approved by the Risk Committee are historical scenarios been 5% higher than managements estimates the Group would not have that show the profit and loss that would occur if the historic changes were recognised an impairment against goodwill.
These stress test results are calculated in near real-time and the end-of-day results are reviewed by the Risk Committee and the Board Income taxes of Directors.
This stress test is used to determine whether the Group holds The Group is subject to income taxes.
Judgement is required in determining enough capital under Pillar 2 of the Capital Requirements Directive.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available in the future against which deferred tax assets can be utilised.
52 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 2009 2008 Equity Price Risk m m The Group is exposed to equity market risk in respect of its equity holdings.
Net assets liabilities These comprise of: i available-for-sale financial assets, ii trading portfolio assets and liabilities that result from market making, and iii derivatives.
In Euros 1.6 0.1 conjunction with stress tests outlined above, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the Groups exposure to equity risk.
The analysis is based on US Dollar 1.9 0.6 the assumption that underlying equity prices had an increase decrease of Hong Kong Dollar 0.7 10% with all other variables held constant at the year end.
The results as Swiss Franc 0.1 0.2 outlined below are only representative of the impact that is observed at the Other currencies 0.2 0.2 year end, and not of the impact that was observed during the year, which occurs due to a varying portfolio throughout the year.
0.6 1.8 i Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups activities are primarily denominated in Sterling.
The majority The Board continues to review the performance of existing available-for-sale of transactions denominated in a foreign currency that would expose the financial assets in the Groups portfolio and realises these investments when Group to currency risk are economically hedged immediately, normally in deemed appropriate.
The Group does not enter into forward exchange contracts for hedging anticipated transactions.
For available-for-sale financial assets, a 10% increase decrease in equity prices would result in an increase decrease respectively in equity reserves Based on the Groups year end net assets dominated in non-Sterling of 0.2m 2008: 0.1m.
currencies the impact of a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against major currencies would result in a gain or loss of 0.1m 2008: ii Trading portfolio assets and liabilities that result from market making 0.2m.
The Risk Department monitors the market risk limits as laid down in the Trading Policy Statement.
An automated system notifies the department On 31 March 2009 the Groups interest in WDB Capital UK Equity Fund whenever a limit is breached and the Risk Department then have a discussion Limited fell below 50%, prior to then the Group was also exposed to foreign with the trader before notifying senior management as to how the breach exchange movements within the Fund.
From 31 March 2009 the Fund will be resolved.
The whole process is logged and is fully auditable so that it is has been accounted for as an associate, and as such the Group is indirectly possible, for example, to analyse limit breach patterns or limit utilisation.
exposed to foreign exchange movements within the Fund.
A 10% increase decrease in equity prices on trading portfolio assets would Interest Rate Risk increase decrease profit in the Income Statement by 1.3m 2008: 0.5m.
A The Group has interest bearing assets in mainly cash and cash equivalents.
10% increase decrease in equity prices on trading portfolio liabilities would The Group has a policy of maintaining excess funds in cash and short term decrease increase profit in the Income Statement by 0.3m 2008: 0.4m deposits and is exposed to short term interest rate risk.
At the year end, all of respectively.
the Groups excess funds were invested in cash and short term deposits.
The Group does not use any derivatives to hedge interest rate risk.
iii Derivatives Management of market risk in respect of derivatives is through active If LIBOR market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower involvement of senior management under the supervision of the Board throughout 2009 with all other variables held constant, profit for the year of Directors.
would have been 0.1m 2008: 1.0m higher and 0.1m 2008: 1.0m lower respectively.
The Group will occasionally use derivatives to hedge its trading portfolio.
All such positions are discussed with senior management and independently Management Fee Risk monitored by the Risk Department.
The Groups management fee income within its Private Client business is exposed to market risk where management fee income is determined by Additionally, non-regular way trades at the period end give rise to derivative reference to client portfolio values.
If financial asset prices that drive the forward contracts as a result of the change in market value from the contract portfolio values had been 5% higher lower during the period, management trade date to 31 December 2009. fee income would have been 1.3m 2008: 0.9m higher and 1.3m 2008: 0.9m lower respectively.
On 31 March 2009 the Groups interest in WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited fell below 50%.
Prior to then the Group consolidated CFDs held b Management of Credit Risk within the Fund.
From 31 March 2009 the Fund has been accounted for as The Group has exposure to credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty an associate, and as such the Group is indirectly exposed to derivative price will cause a financial loss for the Group by failing to discharge an obligation.
Credit risk exposure is generated primarily from the settlement risk on equities and fixed income.
This is principally the risk that counterparty fails The impact of a 10% increase in equity prices on derivatives would increase to settle a trade thereby forcing the Group to close out the trade at a possible profit in the Income Statement by less than 0.2m 2008: 0.1m.
It is important to note that the potential loss is not the value of the trade, of a 10% decrease in equity prices on derivatives would decrease profit in the but the difference between the prices at which the trade was executed and the Income Statement by less than 0.2m 2008: 0.1m.
This is termed the mark-to-market value.
The longest dated transactions are limited to trade date plus twenty five business days.
The Foreign Exchange Risk Group is also exposed to credit risk on outstanding receivables, exposure to The following table summarises the Groups currency exposure arising from this risk is managed by taking into account financial position, past experience unmatched monetary assets or liabilities not denominated in the Groups and other factors for customers.
functional currency: The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 53 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued Credit Risk Control Counterparty receivables represent monies due from institutional trading counterparts.
The Risk Department undertakes a credit review of all new accounts and periodically reviews all existing counterparties.
As part of the review, each counterparty is assigned a credit limit according to the guidelines in the Credit Limit Book.
Limits are based on either the amount of assets under management or risk assessments from a third party provider.
Where data is not available the limit is based on the net assets and profitability of the counterparty.
New accounts cannot begin to trade until the credit review has been completed and the counterparty assessed as credit worthy.
The table below summarises the credit quality of the Groups financial assets by third party credit ratings if available : 2009 2008 % % AAA-A Rated 71 67 Un-Rated Private Client Custodian and Prime Brokers 1 4 Un-Rated Investment Banking Institutional Clients 20 13 Un-Rated 8 16 100 100 The ratings noted have been derived using source information from Standard & Poor and Moodys.
All financial assets over an A Rated rating are consolidated under the AAA-A Rated category and include as cash and cash equivalents, trade receivable and counterparties.
Where an asset is Un-Rated, that is, there is no recognised external rating applicable to the asset, we have created sub-divisions to further distinguish the asset classes.
Under the asset classes Un-Rated Investment Banking Institutional Clients and Un-Rated Private Client Custodian and Prime Brokers the majority of these balances relate to clients which are Un-Rated entities owned by rated institutions, however as the Group transacts with the underlying entities these balances have been classified as Un-Rated.
All Un-Rated assets have undergone a thorough credit review and have been allocated internal ratings based on this review.
Each day the Risk Department prepares a counterparty exposure report that shows all credit risk exposures, potential future exposures and limits.
Credit limit breaches are annotated and investigated.
The Risk Committee reviews all credit limit breaches and authorises mitigating action when deemed necessary.
The Group has 99.5m of its cash balance deposited with a single AA-Rated UK Bank.
However there are no significant concentrations of credit risk with un-rated counterparties.
All items classified as neither past due nor impaired, following the credit reviews described above, are considered to be recoverable and therefore of a credit quality that do not require impairment.
The following table of financial assets analyses amounts due by ageing: Neither past due Past due but not impaired Carrying value Year ended nor impaired 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 1 year Impaired before provision 31 December 2009 m m m m m m m Trade receivables 8.7 1.3 0.2 0.2 10.4 Counterparty receivables 49.5 6.9 0.1 0.1 1.2 57.8 Other receivables 6.4 6.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.7 1.7 Trading portfolio assets 13.3 13.3 Cash and cash equivalents 109.5 109.5 189.1 8.2 0.3 0.1 1.2 0.2 199.1 The carrying amounts disclosed above for the Groups financial assets represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Collateral is held as security against a single other receivables exposure: the value of the collateral at 31 December 2009 is 6.8m.
The balance of 1.2m on counterparty receivables greater than 1 year past due is offset by counterparty payables of 1.2m in relation to the same suspended securities.
Neither past due Past due but not impaired Carrying value Year ended nor impaired 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 1 year Impaired before provision 31 December 2008 m m m m m m m Trade receivables 3.9 0.7 0.6 0.4 5.6 Counterparty receivables 17.8 6.3 0.1 0.4 1.5 26.1 Other receivables 5.8 0.1 5.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 1.1 Trading portfolio assets 5.0 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 103.6 103.6 Amounts owed from Group undertakings 0.7 0.7 137.9 7.1 0.7 0.4 1.9 148.0 The carrying amounts disclosed above for the Groups financial assets represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
No collateral is held as security on these exposures, and the terms have not been renegotiated.
54 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements c Fair Value Estimation Effective 1 January 2009, the Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for the financial instruments that are measured on the Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices: Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2009: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 1.7 1.7 Trading portfolio assets 13.2 0.1 13.3 Total assets 14.9 0.1 15.0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities m m m m Trading portfolio liabilities 2.9 2.9 Total liabilities 2.9 2.9 There have been no changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The carrying values of assets and liabilities not held at fair value cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, counterparty receivables, other receivables, and trade and other payables are not significantly different from fair value.
d Management of Liquidity Risk The Group seeks to manage liquidity risk, by maintaining a mixture of cash and short term deposits to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
As part of this process the Group has been diversifying its deposits to ensure that it is not exposed to undue risk caused by the possible increase in redemption times in its money market funds.
The Group deems there is sufficient liquidity for the near future.
The Groups exposure to liquidity arises from the equity and fixed income trading activities within the investment banking business and the settlement of trades within this business.
This risk is short term in nature.
The following tables analyse the Groups future cash outflows based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than 1 year 1-2 years Total As at 31 December 2009 m m m Trade and other payables 102.5 0.6 103.1 Trading portfolio liabilities 2.9 2.9 105.4 0.6 106.0 Less than 1 year 1-2 years Total As at 31 December 2008 m m m Trade and other payables 45.8 45.8 Trading portfolio liabilities 4.2 4.2 Held-for-sale liabilities 12.9 12.9 62.9 62.9 e Capital Risk Management Consistent with others in the industry the Group manages capital on the basis of regulatory capital requirement in accordance with Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 which is unchanged from 2008.
The Groups objectives when managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored daily by the Groups management, employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee and the European Community Directives, as implemented by the Financial Services Authority, for supervisory purposes.
Compliance with FSA regulatory requirements was maintained throughout the year.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 55 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 3.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued e Capital Risk Management continued The Group has an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process commonly known as the ICAAP, which it uses to manage regulatory capital.
This Assessment takes into account the risk profile and future plans of the business.
Under this process the Group is satisfied that there is either sufficient capital to absorb potential losses or that there are mitigating controls in place to prevent the risks occurring.
The Risk Department includes commentary on required and available capital in its monthly risk report to the Group and in the Risk Committee pack.
The commentary highlights any changes to Pillar 1 or 2 numbers and also any expected impact from the anticipated business initiatives.
On 31 December 2009, the Group had 127.1m 2008: 127.8m of regulatory capital resource, which is comfortably in excess of its regulatory capital requirement.
Management consider that the Group has more than sufficient capital for its size and complexity taking into account all material risks faced in carrying out the Groups activities.
Where significant business initiatives are planned, the effects on the risk profile of the Group and therefore its capital requirement are considered as part of the business plan.
f Operational Risk Control The Group defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events.
The Group recognises that operational risk can never be eliminated, but seeks to minimise the probability and impact of operational risk events.
The operational risk policy that has been implemented incorporates three key processes: A risk and control assessment carried out by the Risk Department through discussion with department heads.
The assessment scores risk events as to probability and impact as well as evaluating the design and performance of controls that have been put in place to mitigate the risk.
The results of this assessment form the basis of the Key Risks Matrix: Monitoring of Key Risk Indicators by the Risk Committee and Group Board: and Establishment of an operational loss database to capture and analyse risk incidents and loss events.
The Group also undertake yearly appraisals for all employees as well as completing an independent employment screening of all new employees.
Segment Reporting By business segment During the year the Groups Board of Directors acted as the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Presented in the table below are the operating segments the CODM regularly reviewed in order to allocate resources and assess the performance of the Groups operating segments.
The Board monitors and reviews the operating performance of the Group by operating segments per the tables on pages to 56 to 58.
Investment Banking in the current year refers to the business carried out in Evolution Securities Limited and Evolution Securities US Inc.
Private Clients refers to the business carried out under the Williams fide Bro brand.
Other activities principally refer to the central administrative, shared services, holding company functions.
Total Assets 2009 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Assets 122.1 34.4 75.5 232.0 Investment in associates 1.3 12.1 13.4 Total assets 123.4 46.5 75.5 245.4 Total Assets 2008 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Assets 64.9 34.8 85.0 184.7 Disposal groups classified as held-for-sale 4.8 23.3 28.1 Total assets 69.7 58.1 85.0 212.8 56 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Total Liabilities 2009 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Liabilities 88.0 12.3 7.9 108.2 Total liabilities 88.0 12.3 7.9 108.2 Total Liabilities 2008 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Liabilities 33.3 15.1 4.3 52.7 Disposal groups classified as held-for-sale 0.6 12.3 12.9 Total liabilities 33.9 27.4 4.3 65.6 Additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets are as follows: Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m 2009 1.8 1.2 3.0 2008 1.1 8.3 0.7 10.1 Segmental information provided to the Board of Directors for the year ended 31 December 2009 is as follows: Income Statement 2009 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Total income 87.0 42.4 129.4 Adjusted operating profit loss 18.5 4.1 1.8 20.8 Charge for share options granted to employees 3.8 Amortisation of intangibles 1.5 Non-recurring operating expenses 2.7 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2.0 Operating profit from continuing operations 11.1 Net finance income 0.3 Share of post tax results of associates 0.3 Profit before tax from continuing operations 11.1 Tax 1.9 Profit after tax from continuing operations 9.2 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 2.3 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 57 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 4.
Segment Reporting continued By business segment continued Segmental information provided to the Board of Directors for the year ended 31 December 2008 is as follows: Income Statement 2008 Investment Private banking clients Other Total m m m m Total income 29.7 34.5 0.3 63.9 Adjusted operating loss profit 5.4 3.6 0.9 2.7 Charge for share options granted to employees 11.7 Amortisation of intangibles 0.6 Non-recurring operating expenses 2.3 Operating loss from continuing operations 17.3 Net finance income 4.6 Loss before tax from continuing operations 12.7 Tax 1.7 Loss after tax from continuing operations 11.0 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 2.5 By geographical segment The disclosure of the Groups assets and income are below.
The analysis is based on the three main geographical areas in which the Group operates.
The UK is the home country of the Parent Company and the principal location in which all subsidiary companies are registered and located.
The US relates to business of ESUS a subsidiary of Evolution Securities Limited which transacts with US clients.
Asia relates to the Groups associated undertaking ESCL which transacts with Chinese clients.
Prior to 2009 ESCL was a subsidiary of the Group and is classified and was discontinued operation in 2008.
2009 2008 Total assets m m UK and Ireland 242.3 207.7 US 1.8 0.3 Asia 1.3 4.8 245.4 212.8 The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 20.2m 2008: 21.4m and the total of these non-current assets located in other countries is 0.1m 2008: nil.
2009 2008 Total income m m UK and Ireland 129.0 63.5 US 0.4 0.4 Asia 0.1 2.3 129.5 66.2 58 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 5.
Total Income 2009 2008 m m Corporate finance fees 14.7 9.2 Management fees 25.7 19.4 Commissions Fixed income commission 35.3 7.1 Equity sales commission 39.9 25.5 Fee and commission income 115.6 61.2 Fee and commission expense 0.8 0.4 Net fee and commission income 114.8 60.8 Fair value gain on trading portfolio assets 13.5 2.3 Fair value gain loss on options taken through profit and loss 0.1 0.3 Total trading income 13.6 2.0 Foreign exchange gains 1.9 Other income losses 1.0 0.8 Total other income 1.0 1.1 129.4 63.9 6.
Net Loss on Available-for-sale Financial Assets 2009 2008 m m Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 Losses transferred from equity on impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 2.0 1.7 7.
Assets and Liabilities of Disposal Groups Classified as Held-for-sale and Discontinued Operations As at 31 December 2008 the assets and liabilities relating to ESCL and its subsidiary and WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited WDB Capital Fund were presented as held-for-sale.
2009 2008 m m a Assets of disposal groups classified as held-for-sale Goodwill 1.2 Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Intangible assets 0.3 Deferred tax assets 0.8 Other non current assets 0.2 Trade and other receivables 2.9 Other current assets 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 21.7 Total 28.1 b Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held-for-sale Trade and other payables 12.8 Other non current liabilities 0.1 Total 12.9 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 59 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 7.
Assets and Liabilities of Disposal Groups Classified as Held-for-sale and Discontinued Operations continued WDB Capital Fund The Group Boards intention has been to reduce its interest in WDB Capital Fund by way of a deemed disposal, to be effected by bringing in new investors into WDB Capital Fund.
The Groups interest in WDB Capital Fund fell below 50% at 31 March 2009, therefore from 1 April 2009 the Group recognises its share of WDB Capital Fund as an associate undertaking and accounts for it by using the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28.
ESCL On 18 December 2008, the Board gave approval for the Group to enter into an investment agreement with First Eastern Financial Holdings Limited, which resulted in a partial disposal of the Groups interest in ESCL.
The investment agreement was formally signed on 31 March 2009, and was disclosed in detail in Note 36 of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
As a result of this transaction the Groups interest in ESCL has fallen to 48.5%.
Prior to the completion of this transaction on 31 March 2009 the Group continued to consolidate and present ESCL as a discontinued operation.
From 1 April 2009 to 31 December 2009 ESCL and its subsidiary are accounted for by the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28.
The results of ESCL and its subsidiary included in the loss before tax from operations are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Total income 0.1 2.3 Impairment 0.4 Other operating expenses 0.7 5.6 Loss before tax from discontinued operations 1.0 3.3 Tax expense credit 0.3 0.8 Loss arising on disposal 1.0 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 2.3 2.5 Attributable to: Minority interest 0.4 0.7 Equity holders of The Evolution Group Plc 1.9 1.8 8.
Operating Expenses The following items have been included in arriving at operating profit from continuing operations: 2009 2008 Operating expenses m m Employee remuneration expense note 10 78.2 51.1 Amortisation of intangibles and impairments 2.4 1.4 Depreciation and write downs of property, plant and equipment 1.7 1.8 Operating lease charges: leasehold property 1.8 1.3 Other property costs 3.2 2.5 IT related costs 8.9 6.1 Direct dealing costs 8.2 5.9 Auditors remuneration note 9 0.7 0.9 Other operating expenses 11.5 10.2 Operating expenses total 116.6 81.2 60 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 9.
Auditors Remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas branches and subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditors at costs as detailed below: Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations Total 2009 2008 2008 2008 Audit services m m m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.1 0.1 0.1 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.6 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services Services relating to taxation 0.2 0.3 0.3 All other services 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 0.1 1.0 Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services including consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Employees and Directors 2009 2008 Employee remuneration expense m m Wages and salaries 62.9 34.0 Social security costs 9.0 4.1 Redundancy costs 1.0 1.0 Pension costs 0.2 0.2 Cost of share options 4.8 11.7 Other staff costs 0.3 0.1 Employee remuneration expense Total 78.2 51.1 The average monthly number of employees including Directors during the year was as follows: Group 2009 2008 Investment Banking 179 137 Private Clients 260 216 Other activities 18 13 Total average number of employees 457 366 The actual number of full time employees was 508 at 31 December 2009 2008: 396 Directors The total remuneration of the highest paid Director was 9.1m 2008: 0.9m, which included 7.1m 2008: nil of gains on exercise of share options.
No Director accrued benefits under money purchase pension schemes during the year 2008: nil.
Aggregate remuneration for all Directors is shown in the table below: 2009 2008 m m Aggregate emoluments 3.6 2.0 Gains made on exercise of share options 8.0 11.6 2.0 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 61 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11.
Net Finance Income 2009 2008 m m Finance income 1.4 5.6 Finance expense 1.1 1.0 Net finance income 0.3 4.6 Interest is paid on overdrawn balances with clearing or settlement institutions.
Tax 2009 2008 m m Current tax UK Corporation income tax on profit 0.1 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.7 Foreign tax 0.2 Total current tax credit 0.3 Deferred tax Current year movement 1.9 0.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 Total tax expense credit 1.9 1.7 Factors affecting the tax expense credit for the year are explained below: 2009 2008 m m Profit loss before tax from continuing operations 11.1 12.7 Profit loss multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% 2008: 28.5% 3.1 3.6 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 5.0 Tax deduction on options exercised 5.4 1.9 Utilisation of losses 1.9 0.1 Trade losses carried back 0.9 Non taxable income 0.1 0.6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.1 0.7 Lower tax rates on overseas earnings 0.2 Share options taken to equity reserves 0.2 Overseas tax credit 0.1 Capital allowances 0.5 0.6 Current year tax losses not utilised 1.8 1.3 Current tax credit 0.4 Deferred tax expense credit 1.9 0.9 Deferred tax expense adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.4 Current year movement 1.9 1.3 Tax expense credit 1.9 1.7 62 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK for the year ended 2009 is 28% compared with 28.5% in the comparative period.
The rate of 28.5% for the comparative period comprised of 3 months 1 January 2008 5 April 2009 at 30% and the remaining 9 months at 28%.
In 2009 the standard rate of corporation tax has remained unchanged at 28%.
Deferred tax on items charged to Income Statement: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax expense on share options 1.0 0.7 Deferred tax credit on capital allowances 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax expense credit on trade losses 1.5 1.3 Deferred tax credit on trade losses prior year adjustment 0.5 Deferred tax credit on intangibles 0.4 0.1 Total deferred tax credited charged to Income Statement 1.9 1.3 13.
Earnings Per Share The calculation of the basic earnings loss per share is based on the profit loss for the year for continuing and discontinuing operations excluding minority interest and on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The calculation of the diluted earnings loss per share is based on the basic earnings loss per share adjusted to allow for the issue of shares on the assumed conversion of all dilutive options.
However, in accordance with IAS 33, potential ordinary shares are only considered dilutive when their conversion would decrease the profit per share or increase the loss per share from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders.
Therefore shares that may be considered dilutive while positive earnings are being reported may not be dilutive while losses are incurred.
Year ended 31.12.2009 Year ended 31.12.2008 Continuing operations Profit Weighted Earnings Loss Weighted Loss Statutory m average no.
Dividends 2009 2008 m m Prior year final paid: 1.27p 2008: 1.25p per share 2.9 2.7 Current year interim paid: 0.80p 2008: 0.75p per share 1.8 1.6 4.7 4.3 In addition, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.70p 2008: 1.27p per share, which will reduce shareholders equity by 3.8m.
It will be paid on the 18 May 2010 to shareholders on the register of members at 16 April 2010.
Dividends amounting to 0.2m 2008: 0.1m in respect of the Companys shares held by an employee share trust have been waived and accordingly deducted in arriving at the aggregate dividends proposed.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 63 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 15.
Goodwill 2009 2008 Cost m m At 1 January 10.4 9.9 Additions 0.3 1.4 Exchange differences 0.3 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale note 7 1.2 At 31 December 10.7 10.4 During 2009, 0.1m of the goodwill acquired relates to the acquisition of WDB Asset Management Limited whose principal activities include being an Authorised Corporate Director ACD to several additional funds and that of unit trust management.
The remaining goodwill of 0.2m relates to the purchase of the business owned by Singer & Friedlander Capital Management Limited.
The purchase was agreed on 21 October 2008, however the payment of 0.2m was not finalised until 2009.
The net assets acquired were already recognised in the year end 31 December 2008, hence the payment of 0.2m is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill acquired in 2008 relates to the acquisition of the private client business from Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander Limited in administration on 21 October 2008.
In 2008 the goodwill transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale relates to the acquisition of 100% of the share capital of EWSL by ESCL on 14 June 2006.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGU identified according to operating segment.
An operating segment-level summary of the goodwill allocation is presented below: Investment Private banking clients Total m m m At 1 January 9.0 1.4 10.4 Additions 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 9.0 1.7 10.7 Impairment test for goodwill The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the management covering a five year period.
The growth rates used 3% for both CGUs to extrapolate the cash flow projections beyond this period do not exceed the long-term average growth rates for the industries in which the CGUs operate.
The pre-tax discounts rates used for the Investment Banking and Private Client business were 10.3% and 8.9% respectively.
The result of the value in use calculations suggests there is a significant amount of headroom over the goodwill balances allocated to the CGUs above.
Intangible Assets Computer Licenses and Customer Distribution software regulatory status relations Brand channels Total 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 3.3 0.1 5.6 1.0 1.8 11.8 Additions 0.9 0.1 1.0 Impaired 0.4 0.4 Scrapped assets 1.1 1.1 At 31 December 2.7 0.2 5.6 1.0 1.8 11.3 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2.4 0.7 0.9 0.2 4.2 Charge for the year 0.7 1.1 0.4 2.2 Impaired 0.3 0.3 Scrapped assets 1.0 1.0 At 31 December 1.8 1.8 0.9 0.6 5.1 Net book amount At 1 January 0.9 0.1 4.9 0.1 1.6 7.6 At 31 December 0.9 0.2 3.8 0.1 1.2 6.2 64 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Computer Licenses and Customer Distribution software regulatory status relations Brand channels Total 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2.6 0.1 1.6 1.0 0.3 5.6 Additions 0.7 0.7 Additions in relation to acquisitions 4.5 1.5 6.0 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale refer to note 7 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 3.3 0.1 5.6 1.0 1.8 11.8 Aggregate amortisation and impairment At 1 January 1.5 0.4 0.9 0.1 2.9 Charge for the year 0.9 0.5 0.1 1.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale refer to note 7 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2.4 0.7 0.9 0.2 4.2 Net book amount At 1 January 1.1 0.1 1.2 0.1 0.2 2.7 At 31 December 0.9 0.1 4.9 0.1 1.6 7.6 The customer relations and distribution channels acquired in 2008 relate to the acquisition of the Singer & Friedlander Capital Management Limited business on the 21 October 2008 Refer to note 28.
Amortisation is included in operating expenses on the Income Statement.
Property, Plant and Equipment 2009 2008 Fixtures Computer Fixtures Computer and fittings equipment Total and fittings equipment Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 6.1 4.3 10.4 5.5 3.6 9.1 Additions 0.3 1.4 1.7 1.2 0.8 2.0 Scrapped assets 0.1 2.0 2.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale refer to note 7 0.7 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 6.2 3.7 9.9 6.1 4.3 10.4 Accumulated Depreciation At 1 January 3.8 3.2 7.0 2.9 2.6 5.5 Charge for the year 1.0 0.7 1.7 1.1 0.7 1.8 Scrapped assets 0.1 1.9 2.0 Exchange differences 0.2 0.1 0.1 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale refer to note 7 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 4.5 2.1 6.6 3.8 3.2 7.0 Net book values At 1 January 2.3 1.1 3.4 2.6 1.0 3.6 At 31 December 1.7 1.6 3.3 2.3 1.1 3.4 Included with the category fixtures and fittings are leasehold improvements.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 65 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
Deferred Tax The movement on the deferred tax assets is detailed below: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 9.4 9.3 Income Statement credit capital allowances 0.2 0.1 Income Statement charge credit trading losses 1.5 1.7 Income Statement charge share options 1.0 0.6 Equity charge share options 0.2 0.8 Equity credit tax deductions on options exercised 1.6 Movement in discontinuing operations throughout the year 0.5 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale 0.8 At 31 December 8.5 9.4 Other Deferred Capital temporary Trading Share income allowances differences losses options tax asset Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 1 January 2009 0.3 0.1 4.9 4.1 9.4 Movement during the year 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.9 At 31 December 2009 0.5 0.1 5.0 2.9 8.5 Deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered as follows: 2009 2008 m m Within twelve months 5.0 5.9 After twelve months 3.5 3.5 Total deferred tax asset 8.5 9.4 19.
Investments in Associates 2009 2008 Cost m m At 1 January 1 Transfer from subsidiary undertakings of ESCL 2.1 2 Transfer from subsidiary undertakings of WDB Capital Fund 11.7 Exchange difference taken to equity 0.1 Share of ESCLs loss for the period 0.7 Share of WDB Capital Funds profit for the period 0.4 At 31 December 13.4 1 On the 31 March 2009 ESCL issued new equity to First Eastern Financial Holdings Limited.
The issue of this new equity caused the Groups shareholding in ESCL to fall from 71% to 48.5%.
As a result of this transaction the Group has reclassified its holding in ESCL from an investment in subsidiary undertakings to an investment in associated undertakings.
2 On the 31 March 2009 WDB Capital Fund issued investment shares to third party investors.
The issue of these new investment shares caused the Groups shareholding to fall below 50%.
As a result of this transaction the Group has reclassified its holding in WDB Capital Fund from an investment in subsidiary undertakings to an investment in associated undertakings.
The Groups share of its principal associates results, and its aggregated assets including goodwill and liabilities are as follows: Country of Profit % interest Name incorporation Assets Liabilities Revenues loss held WDB Capital Fund UK 27.8 1.0 2.5 0.8 44.8% ESCL UK 3.2 0.7 0.9 1.2 48.5% 66 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 20.
Trade and Other Receivables 2009 2008 Current m m Trade receivables 10.4 5.6 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 0.2 0.4 Trade receivables net 10.2 5.2 Counterparty receivables 57.8 26.1 Less: provision for impairment of counterparty receivables 1.5 Counterparty receivables net 57.8 24.6 Other receivables 6.4 10.7 Prepayments and accrued income 4.4 3.7 10.8 14.4 At 31 December 78.8 44.2 The opening provision for impairment of trade receivables was 0.4m 2008: 0.7m, with a credit to the Income Statement in 2009 of 0.1m for the release of provisions 2008: 0.3m and 0.1m for the utilisation of a provision 2008: nil.
The closing provision for impairment of receivables is 0.2m 2008: 0.4m.
The opening provision for impairment of counterparty receivables was 1.5m 2008: 1.4m, in the period 1.5m of the provision was utilised 2008: nil and no credits or charges were taken to the Income Statement 2008: 0.1m.
This has resulted in a closing provision for impairment of counterparty receivables of nil 2008: 1.5m.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 1.1 0.7 Additions at fair value 0.3 1.0 1.4 1.7 Revaluation surplus deficit recognised in equity note 30 0.3 0.6 At 31 December 1.7 1.1 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Listed securities: Equity securities UK 0.6 0.2 Unlisted securities: Equity securities UK 1.1 0.9 1.7 1.1 22.
Trading Portfolio Assets 2009 2008 m m Long positions in market making and dealing operations 13.2 4.8 Options and warrants received in lieu of corporate finance income 0.1 Other derivatives 0.2 At 31 December 13.3 5.0 The long trading portfolio assets include shares listed on LSE Official List, AIM markets and other leading European exchanges.
The nominal value based on exercise price of options and warrants held at 31 December 2009 was 0.9m 2008: 1.2m.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 67 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 23.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash at bank includes 0.6m 2008: 0.8m received in the course of settlement of client transactions which is held in trust on behalf of clients, but may be utilised to settle outstanding transactions.
It also includes cash of 0.2m 2008: 0.2m held by The Evolution Group Plc Employees Share Trust and the W Deb MVL trust which cannot be used by the Group.
2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents m m Cash at bank and at hand 12.4 2.0 Short term bank deposits 97.1 101.6 At 31 December 109.5 103.6 24.
Trade and Other Payables 2009 2008 m m Trade payables 3.3 2.0 Counterparty creditors 58.0 20.7 Other taxation and social security 2.6 1.4 Other payables 0.8 0.4 Accruals and deferred income 37.7 21.3 At 31 December 102.4 45.8 25.
Trading Portfolio Liabilities 2009 2008 m m Short positions in market making and dealing operations 2.7 4.0 Other derivatives 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2.9 4.2 The short trading portfolio liabilities include shares listed on LSE Official List, AIM markets and other leading European exchanges.
Deferred Tax Liabilities The movement on the deferred tax liabilities is detailed below: 2009 2008 Non-current m m At 1 January 1.8 0.3 Transferred to disposal groups classified as held-for-sale 0.1 Deferred tax liability recognised on acquisition of intangibles 1.7 Income Statement credit amortisation of intangibles 0.4 0.1 At 31 December 1.4 1.8 The deferred tax liability relates to the recognition at acquisition of the intangible assets acquired.
These intangible assets and the deferred tax liability are amortised over a total of 5 years.
Provisions for Other Liabilities and Charges 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 0.8 0.6 Charge to Income Statement 0.2 0.2 Transferred to trade and other payables 0.3 At 31 December 0.7 0.8 The amount provided in respect of dilapidations in the current year relates to all offices of the Groups subsidiaries.
68 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 28. Business Combinations On 19 August 2009, the Company acquired the Private Client Investment Management business WDB Asset Management Limited for a total consideration of 0.6m.
Details of net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: m Purchase consideration Cash paid 0.6 Total purchase consideration 0.6 Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired 0.5 Goodwill 0.1 The acquired business contributed revenues of 75,000 and a profit of 4,000 to the Group for the period from acquisition to 31 December 2009.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2009, revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2009 would have been 163,000 and 35,000 respectively.
The goodwill is attributable to the economies of scale expected from combining the operations of Williams fide Bro Limited and WDB Asset Management Limited.
Goodwill of 0.2m was also recognised on the completion of the purchase of the business owned by Singer & Friedlander Capital Management Limited.
Share Capital 2009 2008 m m Authorised: 400,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each 4.0 4.0 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 232,044,933 2008: 224,477,637 ordinary shares of 1p each 2.3 2.2 The following table summarises the movements of allotted, issued and fully paid share capital: 2009 2008 Shares Shares Company Millions Millions Allotted, issued and fully paid: At 1 January 224,477,637 2008: 223,218,843 ordinary shares of 1p each 224.5 223.2 Issues 7,346,565 2008: 546,550 ordinary shares on exercise of options 7.3 0.6 220,731 2008: 243,550 ordinary shares for Share Incentive Plan 0.2 0.2 Nil 2008: 468,694 ordinary shares for Share Incentive Bonus Plan 0.5 At 31 December 232,044,933 2008: 224,477,637 ordinary shares of 1p each 232.0 224.5 The aggregate consideration received on the issue of shares during the year was 3.2m 2008: 1.0m.
Terms of share capital The holder of each ordinary share is entitled to one vote on a poll.
The holders also have the right to receive dividends and the right to participate on a return of capital.
Potential issues of ordinary shares As at 31 December 2009, there are 13,367,877 2008: 27,568,372 options outstanding under all Group schemes as detailed in note 36.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 69 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29.
Share Capital continued The number and market value of the Groups holding in its own shares, held by The Evolution Group Plc Employees Share Trust, are disclosed below: 2009 2008 Number of Number of shares shares Shares held in trust not yet conditionally allocated 14,057,983 9,547,183 Nominal value of 1p ordinary shares 140,580 95,472 Market value at 1.35 per share 2008: 0.86 18,936,110 8,210,577 The market value represents the market price for an ordinary 1p share at 31 December 2009.
Other Reserves Capital redemption Merger Available-for-sale Total other reserve reserve and other reserves reserves Note m m m m Balance at 1 January 2009 0.4 29.3 1.9 27.8 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 21 0.3 0.3 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 6 2.0 2.0 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.4 29.3 0.3 30.0 Capital redemption Merger Available-for-sale Total other reserve reserve and other reserves reserves Note m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 0.4 51.2 1.7 49.9 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 21 0.6 0.6 Transfer of merger reserve to retained earnings 21.9 21.9 Currency translation difference 0.4 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2008 0.4 29.3 1.9 27.8 The merger reserve within the Group arose on the acquisition of the Beeson Gregory Group on 11 July 2002 which was accounted for under the acquisition accounting using merger relief under UK Company Law.
In 2008 a balance of 21.9m was transferred to retained earnings following the liquidation and disposal of entities which were acquired under the Beeson Gregory Group parent umbrella.
Cash Flow from Operating Activities Reconciliation of operating profit loss from continuing operations to net cash flow from operating activities: 2009 2008 m m Cash flows from operating activities continuing operations Operating profit loss from continuing operations 11.1 17.3 Adjustments for: Depreciation and write down of property, plant and equipment 1.7 1.6 Amortisation and write down of intangibles 2.4 1.4 Impairment on available-for-sale financial assets 2.0 Share options charge 4.7 11.7 Foreign exchange gain 0.2 Cost of matching shares issued under Share Incentive Plan 0.3 0.8 Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets 0.3 Changes in working capital: Increase in trade and other receivables 1.2 2.1 Increase in trade and other payables 17.9 10.7 Decrease increase in net market counterparties 4.1 3.9 Increase decrease in derivatives assets 0.5 0.3 Decrease increase in provisions for liabilities and charges 0.1 0.2 Increase decrease in net trading portfolio positions 9.5 10.3 Cash generated from operating activities continuing operations 32.6 13.5 70 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 32.
Capital and Loan Commitments and Contingencies In the ordinary course of business the Group has given letters of indemnity to clients in respect of lost share certificates.
Although the contingent liability arising from these cannot be precisely quantified, it is not believed to be material.
As at 31 December 2009, the Company has a loan commitment to Evolution Securities China Limited an associate of the Group of 0.7m which expires on 31 March 2012.
Of the 0.7m commitment, 0.2m was drawn down by Evolution Securities China Limited on 22 January 2010.
Further details of this payment are disclosed within note 34 of the Groups Financial Statements.
Lease Commitments The Group has annual non-cancellable operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings of 2.1m 2008: 2.5m.
The future aggregate minimum annual lease payments to which these amounts relate expire as follows: 2009 2008 Land and buildings m m Within one year 0.1 Within two to five years 2.0 2.5 2.1 2.5 The Group leases various retail offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between one and five years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
Post Balance Sheet Events Additional Leases On 15 February 2010, and following the completion of a further lease over an additional floor at the Groups Head Office at 100 Wood Street, the Group is committed to spending up to 3.0m to cover the costs of refurbishment to both the new and existing floors.
Long Term Incentive Plan On 22 January 2010, the Group held a General Meeting to approve three long term incentive plans.
The plans were approved by attending shareholders unanimously on a show of hands.
The following proxy votes were received prior to the meeting: % of Votes Votes Votes Votes Resolution for for against withheld To approve The Evolution Group Plc Joint Share Ownership Plan and the 2010 Growth Share Plans relating to Evolution Securities Ltd and Williams fide Bro Ltd 141,947,916 86.95 21,124,467 2,745,839 Background to Joint Share Ownership Plan and Growth Share Ownership Plans The Remuneration Committee has concluded that new long term incentive arrangements are needed which reflect the differing responsibilities of executives at group level and of senior employees in the two business strands of the Group, that is, the institutional investment banking business of Evolution Securities Limited and the private client business of Williams fide Bro Limited.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has introduced the JSOP for executives of the Company and GSOPs for senior employees of each of Evolution Securities Limited and its subsidiaries and Williams fide Bro Limited and its subsidiaries.
Subordinated Loan On 22 January 2010, the Company entered into a subordinated loan agreement with ESCL for an amount of 245,000.
The loan is interest bearing at a rate equal to 10% per annum.
Related Party Transactions The following transactions were carried out with related parties: i Intra-Group trading The Group has per IAS 24 not disclosed transactions or balances between Group entities that have been fully eliminated on consolidation.
WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited Associate undertaking During the period in which WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited was treated as an associated undertaking, WDB Capital Limited a subsidiary of the Group and Investment Fund Manager to WDB Capital UK Equity Fund charged management fees to WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited totalling 0.2m.
As at 31 December 2009 a balance of 0.4m was due from WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited to WDB Capital Limited.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 71 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35.
Related Party Transactions continued ESCL Associate undertaking During the period in which ESCL was treated as an associated undertaking, the Group charged management fees for central administrative services totalling 0.1m.
During the period in which ESCL was treated as an associated undertaking, Evolution Group Services Limited recharged ESCL 0.7m in relation to expenses paid on its behalf.
During the period in which ESCL was treated as an associated undertaking, Evolution Securities Limited rebated ESCL 0.1m in fees and commissions received.
As at 31 December 2009 the Company has a loan commitment to Evolution Securities China Limited an associate of the Group of 0.7m which expires on 31 March 2012.
Of the 0.7m commitment, 0.2m was drawn down by Evolution Securities China Limited on 21 January 2010.
ii Key management compensation The compensation paid to key management is detailed below.
Key management has been determined as the executive management teams of the Group operating subsidiaries who are also the Directors of those subsidiaries, and Group Directors.
2009 2008 Remuneration in respect of key management m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 6.6 5.5 Cost of share options 2.3 3.4 8.9 8.9 An analysis of all Directors remuneration may be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 40. iii Debenture During 2002, a Director of the Company, Alex Snow, purchased a debenture at Twickenham Rugby Club for a term of 10 years.
The debenture was paid for by the Group to the value of 26,000.
An agreement is in place that requires the remaining portion of the debenture to be repaid by the Director should he leave prior to the end of the ten year term.
The debenture is used to facilitate the entertainment of clients.
iv Dealings with Directors Other than the dealings referred to above there are no other dealings the Group had with companies in which any of the key management, or persons connected to them, is a Director.
Employee Share Schemes Movements in the number of share options and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2009 2008 Average Average exercise price Outstanding exercise price Outstanding pence per share options pence per share options At 1 January 22.93 27,568,372 23.20 28,667,197 Granted 1.00 5,231,412 1.00 7,352,362 Exercised 17.92 18,690,240 4.38 6,501,121 Forfeited 4.44 741,667 5.72 1,950,066 At 31 December 22.17 13,367,877 22.93 27,568,372 The weighted average market price of shares exercised during the year was 1.24 2008: 1.01.
The date range over which the above options may be exercised is described in the relevant scheme details below.
The overall weighted average life of the remaining options is 8.04 years 2008: 6.95 years.
All options in the above table have a life from grant of 10 years.
72 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements The share options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average exercise price and expected remaining life as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Range of Number average average Number average average exercise prices of share exercise price expected of share exercise price expected pence options pence remaining life options pence remaining life 1 11,029,602 1.00 8.44 19,863,532 1.00 8.00 25-55 53,275 36.46 2.98 1,878,275 50.37 2.81 56-155 2,285,000 123.99 6.26 5,826,565 88.86 4.70 13,367,877 27,568,372 The number of options and share awards outstanding by issue date and exercise price, together with the vesting periods, the fair values, and the assumptions used to calculate the fair value, and the actual remaining contractual life as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: EVG 2002 EVG 2001 Executive Share Executive Share Option Scheme Option Scheme 1 Grant dates 23.01.04-31.10.09 21.11.02-03.11.06 Weighted average market value at grant date pence 118.51 136.95 Weighted average exercise price pence 1.00 122.00 Number of awards outstanding 11,029,602 2,338,275 Vesting period months 8-36 24-36 2 Expected share price volatility % N A 0-73 Dividend yield % 1.59 0.75 Average life remaining years 8.44 6.18 Number of options awards expected to vest 100% 100% Number of options vested but unexercised 2,058,963 2,338,275 Average fair value per option award granted pence 113.62 43.89 Income statement charge m 3.6 0.1 Note 1 Represents the period since when the performance condition as described below can be met at which point all awards meet the vesting criteria.
Options under the share incentive schemes are valued using a Black-Scholes model adjusted for dividends according to those declared by the Company.
The Company estimates the number of options likely to vest and expenses that value over the relevant period.
2 Volatility has been estimated by taking the historical volatility in the Companys share price over a three year period.
In the case of awards of call rights, which have an exercise price of 1p per ordinary share, the fair value is based on the market value at the time of grant discounted by the dividend yield over the expected life and therefore no volatility or risk free rate is shown within the table above.
In the above table EVG refers to The Evolution Group Plc.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 73 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 36.
Employee Share Schemes continued The Evolution Group Plc 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme The Board approved this plan on 13 March 2002 and it was approved by shareholders on 10 October 2003.
Eligibility Any Director of the Company, or a Group Company, and any employee of the Company, or a Group Company, may be invited to participate in the plan.
Nature of plan The plan provides for participants to be awarded shares in the Company at their nominal cost.
Subject to achievement of performance criteria, awards of shares convert into call rights over such shares.
The plan is operated in conjunction with an employee benefit trust.
Performance criteria From January 2006, following the review by the Remuneration Committee, it was concluded that the sole general criteria should be that of continued satisfactory employment within a Group Company.
Call rights After achievement of the performance criteria and vesting of the award, a call right is granted to the individual exercisable, subject to continued satisfactory employment, within ten years of the date of the original award.
Scheme limits The number of shares, which may be issued to satisfy awards under this plan, is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time.
Options granted At 31 December 2009, awards and call rights over 11,029,602 shares 2008: 19,863,532 were outstanding at an exercise price of the greater of 1.00p or the nominal value of the shares to be subscribed for.
The call rights can be exercised between 14 November 2003 and 31 October 2019.
The Evolution Group Plc 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme Shareholders approved this scheme on 21 June 2001.
Eligibility Any Director who is required to devote the whole or substantially the whole of his working time to the service of the Company, or a Group Company, and any employee of the Company, or a Group Company, may be invited to participate in either ordinary options.
Option price The exercise price shall be determined by the Directors but shall not, unless approved by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, be less than the greater of nine-tenths of the market value of the share at the date of the grant and the nominal value of a share.
Exercise of options An option may not be exercised later than the tenth anniversary after the date of grant.
The earliest date of exercise is generally two years after the date of grant for ordinary options.
Scheme limits The overall limit on the number of shares which may be issued to satisfy ordinary options, is 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Options granted At 31 December 2009 nil ordinary options 2008: nil and 2,338,275 super options 2008: 4,613,275 were outstanding with exercise prices between 27.00p and 128.70p.
The options can be exercised between 29 June 2004 and 3 November 2016.
74 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Financial Statements The Evolution Group Plc Parent Company Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2009 Registered Number: 03359425 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 75 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Evolution Group Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of The Evolution Matters on which we are required to report by exception Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: the Company Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by not visited by us: or the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set are not made: or out on page 26, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent we have not received all the information and explanations we company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards Other matter on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of The Evolution Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Hugh McNaughtan Senior Statutory Auditor Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these for and on behalf of  LLP opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come London, United Kingdom save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
25 March 2010 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company Financial Statements.
76 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Financial Statements Company Balance Sheet 31.12.09 31.12.08 Note m m ASSETS Non-current assets Deferred tax assets 4 2.0 0.9 Investments in subsidiaries 5 50.8 57.5 Investment in associate 7 3.8 Subordinated loan 8 2.0 58.6 58.4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 9 4.4 3.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 10 12.1 11.7 Cash and cash equivalents 11 61.3 75.5 77.8 91.1 Total assets 136.4 149.5 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 12 12.9 6.3 12.9 6.3 Total liabilities 12.9 6.3 Net assets 123.5 143.2 EQUITY Capital and reserves attributable to equity shareholders Share capital 2.3 2.2 Share premium 33.2 29.8 Other reserves 13 35.6 39.3 Retained earnings 52.4 71.9 Total equity 123.5 143.2 The notes on pages 80 to 89 form an integral part of these Financial Statements.
The Financial Statements on pages 77 to 89 were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by: Andrew Westenberger Finance Director The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 77 Financial Statements Company Statement of Changes in Equity Share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves earnings equity m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2009 2.2 29.8 39.3 71.9 143.2 Loss for the year 1.4 1.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax debit on share options taken to equity 0.3 0.3 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 0.4 1.7 1.3 Issuance of ordinary shares 0.1 3.4 3.5 1 Purchase of trust shares 23.7 23.7 Transfer arising from recharge of equity undervalue to subsidiaries 7.8 7.8 Dividends paid 4.7 4.7 Share options: value of employee services 1.4 1.4 Issue of equity instruments to employees of subsidiaries 3.7 3.7 Tax deduction on options exercised 1.4 1.4 Transactions with shareholders 0.1 3.4 4.1 17.8 18.4 Balance at 31 December 2009 2.3 33.2 35.6 52.4 123.5 Share Share Other Retained Total capital premium reserves earnings equity m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 2.2 28.8 76.6 26.5 134.1 Profit for the year 2.2 2.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax debit on share options taken to equity 0.7 0.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 1.0 1.5 2.5 Issuance of ordinary shares 1.0 1.0 Transfer of merger reserve to retained earnings 21.9 21.9 Purchase of trust shares 1.6 1.6 Transfer arising from recharge of equity undervalue to subsidiaries 27.1 27.1 Dividends paid 4.3 4.3 Share options: value of employee services 0.7 0.7 Issue of equity instruments to employees of subsidiaries 10.7 10.7 Tax deduction on options exercised 0.1 0.1 Transactions with shareholders 1.0 38.3 43.9 6.6 Balance at 31 December 2008 2.2 29.8 39.3 71.9 143.2 1 The Evolution Group Plc Employees Share Trust the Trust administers The Evolution Group Plc share schemes.
The debit shown in retained earnings of 23.7m 2008: 1.6m relates to the value of purchases made by the trust to satisfy these outstanding option awards to employees of the Group.
The notes on pages 80 to 89 form an integral part of these Financial Statements.
78 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Financial Statements Company Cash Flow Statement Year Year ended ended 31.12.09 31.12.08 Note m m Cash flows from operating activities: Cash generated from operations 15 2.9 0.2 Finance income received 1.7 3.7 Net cash flows from operating activities 4.6 3.9 Cash flows from investing activities: Investment in subsidiary 1.3 5.0 Fees in relation to disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 Purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Net cash used in investing activities 1.4 5.2 Cash flows from financing activities: Issuance of ordinary share capital 3.2 0.2 Payment of share options recharged to subsidiary 13 7.8 27.1 Dividends paid 4.7 4.3 Purchase of trust shares 23.7 1.6 Net cash used in financing activities 17.4 21.4 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 14.2 20.1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 75.5 55.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 11 61.3 75.5 The notes on pages 80 to 89 form an integral part of these Financial Statements.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 79 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
They are initially recognised at fair value including Basis of preparation direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently held at fair The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance value.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are quoted in active markets, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the fair values are determined by reference to the current quoted bid offer price.
European Union EU and IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Income Statement when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included as a separate component of equity within available-for-sale and other reserves until sale A summary of the Company accounting policies is set out below, together or when impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on Income Statement.
the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The management of the Company makes an assessment at each Balance As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has Sheet date as to whether there is any objective evidence of impairment.
In the elected not to present its own Income Statement for the year.
The Company case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, the cumulative loss reported a loss for the financial year ended 31 December 2009 of 1.4m measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair 2008: Profit of 2.2m.
value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the Income Statement is removed from equity and recognised in the Significant accounting policies Income Statement.
a Investments in subsidiaries An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the Company has Subordinated loan the power to exercise control over its operating and financial policies.
This Subordinated loans are non-derivatives with fixed or determinable payments generally accompanies a shareholding of greater than 50% of the voting that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, power.
The Companys shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the except for loans with maturities greater than twelve months after the Balance Balance Sheet at cost less provisions and any impairments incurred.
Sheet date in which case these are classified as non current assets.
These loans are measured at amortised costs together with any directly attributable The carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings is assessed at transaction costs.
the reporting date or whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The impairment review Trade and other receivables comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the investment with its Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an investments subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables in the Income Statement in the period in which it occurs for the amount by is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not which the investments carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Evidence that an impairment of the asset may be required b Associates includes ageing of the debt beyond 180 days, persistent lack of communication Associates are those entities in which the Company has significant influence, and internal awareness of third party trading difficulties.
but not control, over the financial and operating policies and in which the Company generally has between 20% and 50% voting power.
Investments The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying in associates are carried at cost, and are assessed at the reporting date or amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the may not be recoverable.
The impairment review comprises a comparison of Income Statement within operating expenses.
the carrying amount of the investment with its recoverable amount.
Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets and liabilities For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include The Company classifies its financial assets and liabilities as available-for-sale cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term highly financial assets, loans and receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables.
The classification depends on which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments the purpose for which the assets and liabilities were acquired.
Management are normally those with original maturities of three months or less.
determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value, which is Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs the agreed market price at the time goods or services are provided.
The for all financial assets not carried at fair value through the profit or loss.
Company accrues for all goods and services consumed but yet unbilled at Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from amounts representing managements best estimate of fair value.
the financial assets have expired or where the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are Evolution Group employees share trust derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the obligation is The Trust is a separately administered trust, which is funded by loans from discharged, cancelled or expires.
the Company, and the assets of which comprise shares in the Company.
The Company recognises the assets and liabilities of the Trust in its Available-for-sale financial assets Financial Statements and shares held by the Trust are recorded at cost Available-for-sale financial assets are either designated in this category or are as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds until the shares vest not classified in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets unconditionally with employees.
are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be 80 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements IAS 39 has a scope for exclusion of treasury share transactions linked to The Company is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as share-based payment awards.
The Trust is considered to act as an agent for compensation on exercise of certain employee share options under UK the Company, and accordingly the Trusts assets and liabilities have been tax rules.
As explained under Share-based plans above, a compensation aggregated to reflect the substance of the relationship between itself and expense is recorded in the Companys Income Statement over the period the Company.
from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax Group recharge asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing The Company, through the normal course of business, incurs costs on the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based behalf of its subsidiaries.
These costs are recharged, where relevant, to on the Companys share price at the Balance Sheet date with the cumulative those subsidiaries.
amount of the compensation expense recorded in the Income Statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount The Company recharges its subsidiaries for cash for the cost of share options.
of the remuneration expense, at the statutory tax rate, the excess is recorded The amount of the recharge is equivalent to the cost of shares purchased by directly in equity, against retained earnings.
the Company to satisfy the awards made to subsidiary employees under the Groups employee share scheme.
This recharge reduces the investment in 2.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management subsidiary and a corresponding entry is made to increase retained earnings.
The risk management process of the Company is aligned with those of the Group as a whole and are fully integrated into the risk management Employee benefits framework and processes described within note 3 of the Groups Financial Statements.
a Pension obligations The Company does not offer any company pension schemes.
However, the Through its normal operations, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, Company does make defined contributions to employees approved personal the most significant of which are market and credit risks.
Its strong cash and pension plans, and the costs of these are charged to the Income Statement cash equivalents position ensures that it has low liquidity risk.
a Market Risk b Share-based plans The Companys management awards high-performing employees bonuses Equity Risk in the form of equity-settled share based payments, from time to time, on a The Company is exposed to equity market risk in respect of its equity discretionary basis.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair holdings, which comprise available-for-sale financial assets.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model or, in the case of awards of call rights, which have an exercise The Board continues to review the performance of existing availableprice of 1p per ordinary share: the fair value is based on the market value for-sale financial assets in the Companys portfolio and realises these at the time of grant discounted by the dividend yield over the expected life.
Note 10 summarises the availableThe fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based for-sale financial assets at the year end date and the disposals and fair value payment is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on movements made in the year.
the Companys estimate of the number of shares, which will eventually vest.
The options are generally subject to a three year service vesting condition, A sensitivity analysis has been performed on the Companys exposure to and their fair value is recognised as an employee benefit expense with a equity risk.
The analysis is based on the assumption that underlying equity corresponding increase in retained earnings within the vesting period.
prices had an increase decrease of 10% with all other variables held constant The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are at the year end.
The results as outlined below, are only representative of credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options the impact that is observed at the year end, and not of the impact that was are exercised.
This occurs due to a varying investment held throughout the year.
The issuance by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries of an award over the Companys shares is treated as a capital contribution by the A 10% increase decrease in equity prices would result in an increase Company in its subsidiaries.
This additional investment in subsidiaries results decrease in equity reserves of 1.2m 2008: 0.2m.
in a corresponding entry to shareholders equity.
The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the awards issued allocated on a Foreign Exchange Risk straight line basis over the relevant vesting period.
The Companys activities are primarily denominated in Sterling and it therefore has limited foreign exchange risk.
The majority of transactions Current and deferred taxes denominated in a foreign currency that would expose the Company to Current taxes are computed on a basis of the tax laws enacted or substantially currency risk are hedged immediately, normally in the spot market.
The enacted at the Balance Sheet date in the countries where the Companys Company does not enter into forward exchange contracts for hedging subsidiaries operate and generate income.
The table below summarises the Companys currency exposure arising from unmatched monetary assets or liabilities Deferred taxes are computed using the liability method, on temporary not denominated in the functional currency of the Company: differences between the bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 2009 2008 amounts in financial statements.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it m m arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other Net liabilities than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss.
US Dollar 0.1 0.1 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 81 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management continued Interest Rate Risk The Company has interest bearing assets in mainly cash and cash equivalents.
The Company has a policy of maintaining excess funds in cash and short term deposits and is exposed to short term interest rate risk.
At the year end, all of the Companys excess funds were invested in cash and short-term deposits.
The Company does not use any derivatives to hedge interest rate risk.
If LIBOR market interest rates had been 100 basis points higher lower during 2009, with all other variables held constant, loss for the year 2008: profit for the year would have been 1.2m 2008: 0.8m lower and 1.2m 2008: 0.8m higher.
b Credit Risk The quality of the financial assets in terms of their credit rating is AAA-A rated 79% 2008: 95% and Un-Rated 21% 2008: 5%.
Of the Un-Rated balance 16% relates to the Companys investment in WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited.
The ratings noted above have been derived using source information from Standard & Poors and Moodys.
All financial assets over an A Rated rating are consolidated under the AAA-A Rated category and represent assets such as cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.
The following table of financial assets analyses amounts due by ageing: Neither past due nor impaired Carrying value As at 31 December 2009 m m Other receivables 1.1 1.1 Available-for-sale investments 12.1 12.1 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 3.2 3.2 Cash and cash equivalents 61.3 61.3 77.7 77.7 Neither past due nor impaired Carrying value As at 31 December 2008 m m Other receivables 1.2 1.2 Available-for-sale investments 11.7 11.7 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2.8 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents 75.5 75.5 91.2 91.2 The carrying amounts disclosed above for the Companies financial assets represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
c Liquidity Risk The Company seeks to manage liquidity risk, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Company actively maintains a mixture of cash and short term deposits that are designed to ensure the Company has sufficient available funds for its operations.
The Company deems there is sufficient liquidity for the near future.
The tables below analyse the Companys future cash outflows based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
Less than 1 year Total As at 31 December 2009 m m Trade and other payables 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 Less than 1 year Total As at 31 December 2008 m m Trade and other payables 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 82 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements d Fair Value Estimation Effective 1 January 2009, the Company adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for the financial instruments that are measured on the Balance Sheet at fair value.
The following table presents the Companys assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2009: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 12.1 12.1 Total assets 12.1 12.1 There have not been any changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 31 December 2009.
e Capital Risk Management The Companys objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders of the Company and the Company monitors capital risk on the basis of total shareholder funds, at 31 December 2009 the Company had shareholder funds of 123.5m 2008: 143.2m.
The Company is not regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, but is part of an FSA regulated group.
Auditors Remuneration During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Companys auditors at costs as detailed below: 2009 2008 Audit services m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services Services relating to taxation 0.1 0.1 All other services 0.1 0.2 0.3 Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Deferred Tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%.
The movement on the deferred tax assets is detailed below: 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 0.9 1.7 Income Statement charge share options 0.1 Income Statement charge share options exercised 0.3 0.1 Equity charge stock options 0.6 Equity credit tax deductions on share options exercised 1.4 At 31 December 2.0 0.9 Deferred tax assets are expected to be recovered as follows: 2009 2008 m m Within twelve months 0.4 0.8 After twelve months 1.6 0.1 Total deferred tax asset 2.0 0.9 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 83 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5.
Investment in Subsidiaries 2009 2008 m m Cost At 1 January 63.4 74.8 Additions 1.2 5.0 Issue of equity options to employees of subsidiaries 3.7 10.7 Deduction to investment in subsidiaries for the cost of options recharged 7.8 27.1 Deemed disposals note 7 3.8 At 31 December 56.7 63.4 Provision for impairment At 1 January 5.9 5.9 At 31 December 5.9 5.9 Net book values At 1 January 57.5 68.8 At 31 December 50.8 57.5 Additions During the year the Company made a further investment into Evolution Securities China Limited ESCL of 1.2m.
During the year, in recognition of grant of options over equity instruments to employees of subsidiaries the Company has increased its investments in subsidiaries by 3.7m in the year 2008: 10.7.
The credit entry to this represents an increase in the Companys available-for-sale and other reserves as shown in note 13.
The deduction to investment in subsidiaries of 7.8m in the year 2008: 27.1m relates to the recharge by the Company for market purchases and costs associated with the employee share scheme to its underlying subsidiaries.
On 8 November 2009 the Company incorporated a new legal entity by the name Darwin Strategic Limited, this entity has not commenced trading.
In the prior year the Company made a further investment into Williams fide Bro Limited of 5.0m.
Deemed Disposals On the 31 March 2009 ESCL issued new equity to First Eastern Financial Holdings Limited.
The issue of this new equity caused the Companys shareholding in ESCL to fall from 71% to 48.5%.
As a result of this transaction the Group has ceased to control ESCL, and hence has changed its holding in ESCL from an investment in subsidiary to an investment in associate.
84 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 6.
Principal Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings Percentage Country of Subsidiaries owned by the Company Business Owned 2009 Incorporation Evolution Securities Limited Investment banking 100 UK Williams fide Bro Limited Private client 100 UK Evolution Group Services Limited Shared services 100 UK Evolution Capital Investment Limited Private equity portfolio 100 UK WDB Capital Limited Private client 100 UK Darwin Strategic Limited Debt Capital Markets 52 UK Associates owned by the Group Evolution Securities China Limited Investment banking 48.5 UK WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited Hedge Fund 44.8 Cayman Islands Subsidiaries owned by other Group companies Evolution Securities US Inc. Investment banking 100 US Williams fide Bro Management Company Limited Asset Management 100 Ireland WDB Asset Management Limited Asset Management 100 UK Shareholdings in the above subsidiaries are of ordinary equity shares except for the interest in WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited, which is in the form of investment shares.
In accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is solely provided in relation to principal subsidiary undertakings.
Full information is included within the Annual Return to be filed at Companies House.
On 17 April 2007 W Deb MVL Plc was placed into Members Voluntary Liquidation.
Investment in Associates 2009 2008 Cost m m At 1 January Transfer from investment in subsidiaries Note 5 3.8 At 31 December 3.8 8.
Subordinated Loan 2009 2008 m m At 1 January Subordinated loan to Williams fide Bro Limited 2.0 At 31 December 2.0 The subordinated loan of 2.0m owed to the Company by Williams fide Bro Limited, was entered into on 30 January 2009, and is repayable on the date specified by notice in writing by either party being not less than two years after the date of which the notice is given.
The loan is interest bearing at a rate of 10% per annum.
During the period the Company received interest of 0.2m.
Trade and Other Receivables 2009 2008 Current m m Other receivables 1.1 1.1 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 3.2 2.8 Prepayments and accrued income 0.1 At 31 December 4.4 3.9 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 85 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Available-for-sale Financial Assets 2009 2008 m m At 1 January 11.7 10.5 Additions at fair value 0.2 11.7 10.7 Revaluation surplus recognised in equity note 13 0.4 1.0 At 31 December 12.1 11.7 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Listed securities: Equity securities 12.1 11.7 12.1 11.7 Available-for-sale financial assets include amounts invested in the WDB Capital UK Equity Fund Limited, an entity managed by WDB Capital Limited.
The Company did not invest into the Fund during 2009 2008: 0.2m.
The fair value of the investment has been increased by 0.4m 2008: 1.0m with a corresponding credit to available-for-sale and other reserves.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents m m Cash at bank and in hand 7.3 0.2 Short term bank deposits 54.0 75.3 At 31 December 61.3 75.5 12.
Trade and Other Payables 2009 2008 m m Amounts owed to Group undertaking 9.5 4.1 Other taxation and social security 0.1 0.2 Accruals and deferred income 3.3 2.0 At 31 December 12.9 6.3 13.
Other Reserves Capital redemption Merger Available-for-sale Total other reserve reserve and other reserves reserves Note m m m m Balance at 1 January 2009 0.4 29.3 9.6 39.3 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 10 0.4 0.4 1 Transfer arising from recharge of equity undervalue to subsidiaries 7.8 7.8 Issue of equity instruments to employees of subsidiaries 3.7 3.7 Balance at 31 December 2009 0.4 29.3 5.9 35.6 Capital redemption Merger Available-for-sale Total other reserve reserve and other reserves reserves Note m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 0.4 51.2 25.0 76.6 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 10 1.0 1.0 Transfer of merger reserve to retained earnings 21.9 21.9 1 Transfer arising from recharge of equity undervalue to subsidiaries 27.1 27.1 Issue of equity instruments to employees of subsidiaries 10.7 10.7 Balance at 31 December 2008 0.4 29.3 9.6 39.3 1 The debit taken to other reserves of 7.8m in the year 2008: 27.1m relates to the recharge by the Company for market purchases and costs associated with the employee share scheme to its underlying subsidiaries, a corresponding credit is taken to retained earnings.
On receipt of cash by the Company from the subsidiary a credit is taken to reduce the historic investment in subsidiary account disclosed within note 5.
86 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements 14.
Employees and Directors 2009 2008 Employee remuneration expense m m Wages and salaries 3.4 2.0 Social security costs 1.4 0.1 Cost of share options 1.5 0.8 Other staff costs 0.2 Total employee remuneration expense 6.5 2.9 The average number of employees including Directors during the year was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Group 18 13 The actual number of full time employees was 18 at 31 December 2009 2008: 15.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities Reconciliation of operating loss to net cash flow generated from operating activities: 2009 2008 m m Cash flows from operating activities Operating loss 2.9 1.3 Adjustments for: Share options charge 1.4 0.8 Cost of matching shares issued under Share Incentive Plan 0.3 0.7 Changes in working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 2.7 0.3 Increase in trade and other payables 1.4 0.3 Cash generated from operating activities 2.9 0.2 16.
Capital Commitments and Contingencies There are no further post capital commitments and contingencies other than those disclosed in note 32 of the Groups Financial Statements.
Lease Commitments The leases on the Companys main premises are in the name of Evolution Group Services Limited, another Group Company, details of which can be seen in the financial statements of that Company.
They also form part of the Groups lease commitments as disclosed in note 33 of the Groups Financial Statements.
Evolution Group Services Limited recharges the Company for usage of these premises.
Post Balance Sheet Events There are no further post Balance Sheet events other than those disclosed in note 34 of the Groups Financial Statements.
Related Party Transactions i Intra-Group trading The following table shows the balances owed by owed to the Company to from fellow Group undertakings at the year end: 2009 2008 m m Williams fide Bro Limited 2.5 0.7 W Deb MVL Plc 2.2 2.2 Evolution Securities Limited 6.3 0.6 Evolution Group Services Limited 1.7 Evolution Capital Investment Limited 0.3 4.3 2.0 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 87 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19.
Related Party Transactions continued ii Fixed assets The Company pays interest to Evolution Group Services Limited in respect of fixed assets which are used by the Company and owned by Evolution Group Services Limited.
The interest paid for non current assets during the period was less than 0.1m 2008: less than 0.1m.
iii Commissions earned on trading with key management and other Group Directors During the period Directors of the Company paid 375 2008: 471 in commission to Williams fide Bro Limited on private client accounts belonging to Directors of the Company.
iv Dealings with Directors The Company has had no dealings with companies in which any of the key management, or persons connected to them, is a Director.
v Debenture During 2002, a Director of the Company, Alex Snow, purchased a debenture at Twickenham Rugby for a term of 10 years.
The debenture was paid by the Company to the value of 26,000.
vi ESCL Associate undertaking During the period in which ESCL was treated as an associated undertaking, the Company charged management fees for central administrative services totalling 0.1m 2008: nil.
vii Recharge of share options to subsidiaries During the year the Company charged Evolution Securities Limited 7.8m 2008: 27.1m for the cost of options purchased by the Trust to satisfy awards made to employees of Evolution Securities Limited.
viii Key management compensation The compensation paid to key management of the Company is disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 40. ix Subordinated loan During the year the company received 0.2m of interest on the subordinated loan issued to Williams fide Bro Limited.
Employee Share Schemes Movements in the number of share options and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2009 2008 Average Average exercise price Outstanding exercise price Outstanding pence per share options pence per share options At 1 January 33.97 7,741,565 39.30 7,191,565 Granted 1.00 2,428,989 1.00 500,000 Exercised 36.49 7,191,565 41.4 500,000 Forfeited 1.00 550,000 Employee transferred to subsidiary company 1.00 500,000 At 31 December 1.00 3,478,989 33.97 7,741,565 The weighted average market price of the shares exercised during the year was 1.47 2008: 1.43.
The overall weighted average life of the remaining options is 9.03 years 2008: 6.95 years.
88 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements The number of options and share awards outstanding by issue date and exercise price, together with the vesting periods, the fair values, and the assumptions used to calculate the fair value, and the actual remaining contractual life as at 31 December 2009 are as follows: EVG 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme 1 Grant dates 15.01.08-18.05.09 Weighted average market value at grant date pence 110.82 Weighted average exercise price pence 1.00 Number of awards outstanding 3,478,989 Vesting period months 24-36 2 Expected share price volatility % N A Dividend yield % 1.83 Average life remaining years 9.03 Number of options awards expected to vest 100% Number of options vested but unexercised.
Average fair value per option award granted pence 105.73 Income statement charge m 1.1 In the above table EVG refers to The Evolution Group Plc.
1 Represents the period since when the performance condition as described below can be met at which point all awards meet the vesting criteria.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average exercise price and expected remaining life as follows: 2009 2008 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Range of Number average average Number average average exercise prices of share exercise price expected of share exercise price expected pence options pence remaining life options pence remaining life 1 3,478,989 1.00 9.03 3,150,000 1.00 6.41 52.30 1,500,000 52.30 2.49 58.67 3,091,565 58.67 2.36 3,478,989 7,741,565 Further details of the Companys employee options schemes are disclosed in the Groups Financial Statements and on Note 36.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 89 Financial Statements Directors and Advisers Directors Martin Gray Non-Executive Chairman Alex Snow Group Chief Executive Andrew Westenberger Group Finance Director Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Non-executive Mark Nicholls Non-Executive Peter Gibbs Non-Executive Christopher Chambers Non-Executive Roger Perkin Non-Executive Company Secretary Tony Lee Registered Office 9th Floor 100 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN Independent Auditors  LLP Hays Galleria 1 Hays Lane London SE1 2RD Solicitors Bird & Bird Fasken Martineau Stringer Saul LLP 15 Fetter Lane 17 Hanover Square London London EC4A 1JP W1S 1HU Brokers Credit Suisse Arden Partners One Cabot Square 125 Old Broad Street London London E14 4Q J EC2N 1AR Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Registered number 03359425 90 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Evolution Group today Investment Banking Private Clients Other London, New York, Boston, Madrid London, Birmingham, Edinburgh, London, Shanghai, Hong Kong Exeter, Bath, Guildford, Bournemouth Corporate Finance Discretionary Investment Management Corporate Finance Debt & Equity Capital Markets Advisory Investment Management Equity Sales & Trading Fixed Income Trading & Sales Execution only stockbroking Equity Sales & Trading Fund Management: Debt Advisory - Hedge Fund - Fund of Funds - OEICS Fund Administration Our Strategy The Groups strategic aims and core principles are: Financial Strength Underpinned by a disciplined approach to investment: Focus on an agency model: and High Balance Sheet liquidity.
Partnership Culture Proper alignment and reward sharing between employees and shareholders: and Long-term view focused on relationships not transactions.
Designed and produced by Best&Co.
London 44 0 20 7440 8710 2 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 EVO ACCOUNTS PROOF 7 09.04.10. in93 93 12 4 10 10:37:18 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 100 Wood Street London EC2V 7AN The Evolution Group Plc T: 44 0 20 7071 4300 www.
com For the year ended 31 December 2009
