F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 127 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29: Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not disclosed the information required by that standard because the Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements which are publicly available and include disclosures given under IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Turnover Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to Investment Trusts and shared services and administration services provided to subsidiary undertakings.
Fees are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services are provided.
Dividend recognition Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only when they have been declared and approved or at the date of payment for interim dividends.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The cost includes the uplift arising from the equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with FRS 20 IFRS 2 : Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are made by the subsidiaries.
The uplift is credited to a capital contribution reserve in equity.
The Company recharges certain subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an expense as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Leasehold improvements 10 years Office furniture & equipment 3-5 years Computer equipment 3 years The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
Financial instruments When financial instruments are recognised initially they are measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices mid price for Open Ended Investment Companies at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments are classified into the categories described below: i Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Balance Sheet.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using the Price of a Recent Investment method.
Repayments are treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that another valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the previous balance sheet date.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 128 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company Accounting Policies Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
The following assets are classified as available for sale: Fixed assets Other investments ii Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include investments which have been specifically designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
These are carried in the Balance Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
The following assets are classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Fixed assets Other investments Non-current assets Other financial liabilities iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value plus any incremental costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The following assets and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables: Current assets: Debtors Cash and short-term deposits iv Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method after initial recognition, other than the minority interest put options which are classified as fair value through profit or loss.
The following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: Creditors amounts falling due within one year Creditors amounts falling due outwith one year The Company has adopted trade date accounting for purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company commits to the purchase of the investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
Minority interest put options The minority interest put options are included at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put options is debited to equity.
Subsequent movements in the fair value are reflected in the Profit and Loss Account.
Fair value is the amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a transaction at the balance sheet date between willing parties.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
Financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 129 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Available for sale financial assets If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Operating leases Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally to the employees.
Consideration paid and received for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders funds and no gain or loss is recognised.
Other assets and liabilities of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
Ordinary shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary companies.
The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in receipt of awards and the Company recognises any fresh issue of shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the Company as a deduction from shareholders funds.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot be made.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of any expected sub-letting arrangements.
Related party disclosures FRS 8: Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of material transactions between the reporting entity and related parties.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies which eliminate on consolidation.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 130 Company Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company Accounting Policies Foreign currencies The Companys Financial Statements are presented in millions of pounds Sterling rounded to one decimal place, the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange movements are also recognised directly in equity, with the exception of available for sale debt instruments, which are reflected in the Profit and Loss Account.
Share-based payments The Company operates a share scheme arrangement which requires to be accounted for as a share-based payment.
All grants of shares, share options or other share-based instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have been recognised as an expense.
The fair values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards.
The fair value is measured by an independent external valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread over the period during which the parties become unconditionally entitled to exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Profit and Loss Account is equal to the estimated fair value of the award multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon meeting non-market related performance conditions.
The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments as non-market related conditions are performance criteria, such as earnings targets and or service requirements.
The probability of meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
FRS 20: Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until the payments are ultimately settled.
Share capital When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company is presented as a liability in the Balance Sheet, measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders funds, net of transaction costs.
Preference Share capital The Companys issued Preference Share capital was classified as a liability.
It was carried at amortised cost in the Balance Sheet.
Preference dividends were recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an interest expense as they accrued.
Ordinary Share capital When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are recognised in the own share reserve included within retained earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
Dealings in own shares are reflected through equity.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Cash flow statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 revised : Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare its own Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc.
