F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 139 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirtieth Annual General C for the purpose of this Resolution, Pre-Emptive Meeting of F&C Asset Management plc will be held at The Offer means an offer of equity securities to: Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA on Tuesday 1 holders of ordinary shares other than the 4 May 2010 at 11 a. m. UK time for the following purposes: Company on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective holdings of such shares: and Ordinary Business 2 other persons entitled to participate in such To be proposed as ordinary resolutions: offer by virtue of the rights attaching to any 1.
To receive the Financial Statements and the Reports of other equity securities held by them: the Directors and the Independent Auditors for the year in each case, subject to such exclusions or other ended 31 December 2009. arrangements as the Directors may deem 2.
To declare a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share on the necessary or appropriate in relation to fractional ordinary shares of the Company to be paid on 7 May 2010 entitlements, legal, regulatory or practical problems to members whose name appears on the register of under the laws or the requirements of any members at the close of business on 26 March 2010. regulatory body or stock exchange of any territory or otherwise.
To elect Kieran Poynter, who retires at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment, as a Director.
To be proposed as special resolutions: 4.
To re-elect Keith Bedell-Pearce, who retires by rotation, 10.
A subject to the passing of resolution 9 set out in this 5.
To re-elect Nick MacAndrew, who retires by rotation, as Notice the Allotment Authority, the Directors be a Director.
given power pursuant to section 570 of the 6.
To re-elect David Logan, who retires by rotation, as a Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity Director.
securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authorities given by 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the the Allotment Authority, and to sell treasury shares year ended 31 December 2009. wholly for cash, as if section 561 1 of the Act did 8.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next that such power shall be limited to the allotment of General Meeting at which Financial Statements are laid equity securities or the sale of treasury shares: before the Company and to authorise the Directors to 1 in the case of paragraph A 1 of the Allotment determine their remuneration.
Authority, a in connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer as defined in the Allotment Authority : or Special Business b in order to satisfy options or awards under To be proposed as an ordinary resolution: any share scheme for employees or share 9.
THAT: incentive plan approved by the Company in general meeting: or c otherwise, up to a A pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act maximum nominal amount of 24,963.65: 2006 the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot: 2 in the case of paragraph A 2 of the Allotment Authority, in connection with a Pre-Emptive 1 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to Offer undertaken by means of a rights issue: subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, up to a maximum B the power given in this Resolution: nominal amount of 160,715.81, subject to 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing paragraph A 2 : and authorities under section 570 of the Act or its predecessor section 95 of the Companies Act 2 shares in the Company, or to grant rights to 1985: and subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, comprising equity 2 unless renewed in accordance with the Act, securities within the meaning of section 560 1 shall expire at the same time as the Allotment of the Act up to a maximum nominal amount Authority, save that the Company may before when aggregated with any allotment made such expiry make an offer or agreement which pursuant to paragraph A 1 of 300,726.88 in would or might require equity securities to be connection with a Pre-Emptive Offer allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such undertaken by means of a rights issue: expiry.
B the authorities given in this Resolution: 11.
THAT, in substitution for any existing power under section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act or its 1 shall be in substitution for all pre-existing predecessor section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, but authorities to allot shares under section 551 of without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the Act or its predecessor section 80 of the the date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally Companies Act 1985: and and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in 2 unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance accordance with section 701 of the Act, to make market with the Act, shall expire at the completion of the purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of Annual General Meeting of the Company to be fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of held in 2011, save that the Company may before the Company ordinary shares in such terms and in such such expiry make an offer or agreement which manner as the Directors of the Company may decide, would or might require the allotment of shares in provided that: the Company, or the right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company, after such expiry: and F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 140 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information iii The Company has made provision for shareholders who would like to lodge i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares their proxy electronically or through CREST.
hereby authorised to be purchased is 48,219,564 being approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued iv Completing and returning a Form of Proxy will not prevent an Ordinary Shareholder from attending in person at the meeting referred to above and ordinary share capital of the Company excluding voting should he or she wish to do so.
treasury shares as at 31 March 2010 : v To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, share is 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses : and shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on Thursday, 29 April 2010 or, in the event of any iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may adjournment, on the date which is two days excluding any part of a day be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the the meeting.
London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of vi If you are not a member of the Company but you have been nominated by a member of the Company to enjoy information rights, you do not have a purchase: right to appoint a proxy.
such authority to expire on the earlier of the date falling vii If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights: and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the You may have a right under an agreement between you and the Company to be held in 2011, unless previously revoked, member of the Company who has nominated you to have information rights Relevant Member to be appointed or to have someone else varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting, appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
save that the Company may at any time prior to the expiry If you either do not have such a right or if you have such a right but do of such authority enter into a contract or contracts to not wish to exercise it, you may have a right under an agreement between you and the Relevant Member to give instructions to the purchase ordinary shares under such authority which will Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights.
or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase viii Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or representative s who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
contracts as if this authority had not expired.
ix Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the 12.
THAT: threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter A the articles of association of the Company be relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors amended by deleting all the provisions of the report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: Company's memorandum of association which, by or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing virtue of section 28 of the Companies Act 2006, are to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act to be treated as provisions of the Company's 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such articles of association: and website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place B the articles of association of the Company be a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it amended by making the alterations marked on the must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the print of the articles of association produced to the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 meeting for the purpose of identification.
THAT the period of notice for calling a general meeting x Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The other than an Annual General Meeting shall be not less Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given than 14 clear days provided that this authority shall expire if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already Company to be held in 2011. been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
By order of the Board W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA xi In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents Secretary of this notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of which 80 George Street members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the meeting and, if applicable, any members' statements, members' resolutions or members' Edinburgh EH2 3BU matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice of meeting will be available on the Company's website at www.
31 March 2010 xii As at 31 March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of Notes 482,195,635 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each carrying one vote each.
i A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to Therefore, total voting rights in the Company as at 31 March 2010 are appoint one or more proxies to attend and speak and vote on his her 482,195,635. behalf.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A xiii Copies of the following documents will be made available for inspection at member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached the registered office of the Company and at the Companys head office to any one share.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the close of the ii A Form of Proxy for use by Ordinary Shareholders in connection with the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and meeting is enclosed with these Accounts.
To be valid, the Form of Proxy during the continuance of the meeting: should be completed and signed and sent or delivered, together with any the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an Directors letters of appointment: and extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy the articles of association of the Company marked up to show the or a copy certified in accordance with the Powers of Attorney Act 1971 of proposed amendments.
such power or authority, in accordance with the instructions contained therein, so as to reach the Companys registrars, at the address stated xiv A member may not use any electronic address provided either in this thereon, not later than 11 a. m. UK time on 2 May 2010.
Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 141 Shareholder Information Notice to U. S. Shareholders Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notice To U. S. Shareholders Certain PFIC Considerations Shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to Whether a non-U.
S. company is a PFIC is determined the tax considerations applicable to them relating to the annually, and the status of the Company, or any of its purchase, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares subsidiaries, could change depending among other things the Shares, including the applicability of U. S. Federal upon the changes in the composition of its gross receipts state and local tax laws and non-U.
This and assets, and the nature of its business.
discussion does not address tax considerations applicable to U. S. shareholders other than the passive foreign U. S. Shareholders are particularly urged to consult their investment company rules.
own Tax Advisors regarding the U. S. tax considerations relating to an investment in a company that may be or may F&C Asset Management plc the Company and certain of become a PFIC, including the availability and its subsidiaries may be treated as passive foreign consequences of elections that may be available to investment companies each, a PFIC within the meaning mitigate the adverse Federal income tax consequences of of section 1297 of the U. S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, owning or disposing of PFIC shares.
In that regard, U. S. as amended the Code for U. S. Federal income tax Shareholders should be aware that the Company does not purposes.
intend to satisfy the record keeping and other requirements that would permit a U. S. Shareholder to make a qualified Treatment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries as a electing fund QEF election with respect to the Company PFIC could result in adverse tax consequences for U. S. or any of its subsidiaries.
Each taxpayer is hereby notified that: a any discussion of A foreign corporation generally will be treated as a PFIC in U. S. Federal tax issues herein is not intended or written to any year in which either 75 percent or more of its gross be used, and cannot be used by the taxpayer, for the income constitutes passive income or at least 50 percent purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed on the of the value of its assets is attributable to assets which taxpayer under U. S. Federal tax law: b any such produce or are held for the production of passive income.
discussion is written to support the promotion or marketing In applying these tests, a non-U.
S. corporation that directly of the transactions or matters addressed herein: and c the or indirectly owns at least 25 percent, by value, of the stock taxpayer should seek advice based on its particular of another corporation is treated as if it held directly its circumstances from an independent tax advisor.
proportionate share of the other corporations assets and received directly its proportionate share of the other corporations income.
Corporate Information Directors Stockbrokers Nick MacAndrew, Chairman JPMorgan Cazenove Alain Grisay, Chief Executive 20 Moorgate Keith Bedell-Pearce, Senior Independent Non-executive London Brian Larcombe, Non-executive EC2R 6DA David Logan, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Medlock, Non-executive Citigroup Global Markets Limited Kieran Poynter, Non-executive Citigroup Centre Gerhard Roggemann, Non-executive Canada Square Canary Wharf Member of Remuneration Committee London Member of Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Member of Nomination Committee E14 5LB Head Office Auditors Exchange House KPMG Audit Plc Primrose Street Saltire Court London 20 Castle Terrace EC2A 2NY Edinburgh Telephone 020 7628 8000 EH1 2EG Facsimile 020 7628 8188 Email: enquiries@fandc.
com Registrar and Transfer Office Equiniti Limited Secretary and Registered Office 34 South Gyle Crescent W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA South Gyle Business Park 80 George Street Edinburgh Edinburgh EH12 9EB EH2 3BU Telephone 0131 718 1000 Corporate information Facsimile 0131 225 2375 F&C Asset Management plc Registered in Scotland Solicitors Company Registration Number 73508 Norton Rose LLP 3 More London Riverside Website London Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website SE1 2AQ www.
com Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP 1 Exchange Crescent Conference Square Edinburgh EH3 8UL Principal Bankers The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 142-144 Princes Street Edinburgh EH2 4EQ Shareholder services available from Equiniti Limited Shareview The Companys registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and other investments: Direct access to data held on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
The ability to change address details or dividend payment instructions online.
To sign up for Shareview, shareholders need the shareholder reference printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery, and there is no charge to register.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format post or e-mail for shareholder communications.
Shareholders selecting e-mail as their mailing preference will be sent shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option is available.
Shareholders selecting post as their preference will be sent paper documents as usual.
Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the website, www.
co. uk Voting Online In accordance with good governance practice the Company is offering shareholders use of an online voting service, sharevote, offered by Equiniti, at www.
Shareholders can use this service to vote or appoint a proxy online.
m. UK time on 2 May 2010 applies as for the Personalised Voting Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote.
Shareholders need to use the unique personal identification details Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form to use this service.
F&C Asset Management plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 F&C Asset Management plc Head Office Exchange House Primrose Street London EC2A 2NY Telephone 020 7628 8000 Email enquiries@fandc.
