BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and Critical accounting policies management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized in Financial statements Note 1 on page 116. this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values used in preparing the financial statements is the need for BP of exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs and costs associated with exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial wells, are transferred to production assets within property, plant and statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during equipment.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved oil and natural gas properties which include the costs of drilling and assumptions used.
The following summary provides more information about the critical accounting policies that could have a unsuccessful wells are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent barrels significant impact on the results of the group and should be read in that are produced in a period as a percentage of the estimated proved conjunction with the Notes on financial statements.
Field development costs subject to depreciation are expenditures incurred to date, together with approved future The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant judgements and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated development expenditure required to develop reserves.
financial statements are in relation to oil and natural gas accounting, The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of asset carrying calculations vary with the nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The reserves used in the calculation of the unit-of-production amortization are values, taxation, derivative financial instruments, provisions and contingencies, and pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
as follows: Producing wells proved developed reserves.
Oil and natural gas accounting Licence and property acquisition, field development and future decommissioning costs total proved reserves The group follows the principles of the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with The acquisition of geological and geophysical seismic information, prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset prior to the discovery of proved reserves, is expensed as incurred.
over the expected future production.
If proved reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting expense or an immediate write-down of the propertys carrying value date to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount see discussion of recoverability of asset carrying values on the exceeds the recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that following page.
On 31 December 2008, the SEC published a revision of Rule exploration drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is 4-10 a of Regulation S-X for the estimation of reserves.
These revised economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial rules form the basis of the 2009 year-end estimation of proved reserves considerations and sufficient progress is being made on establishing and the application of the technical aspects resulted in an immaterial increase of less than 1% to BPs total proved reserves.
The estimation of development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process to manage reserves off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line bookings is described in Exploration and Production Reserves and basis over the estimated period of exploration.
production on page 24, which is unaudited.
As discussed on the following page, oil and natural gas reserves have a direct impact on the For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, costs directly associated with the drilling of wells are initially capitalized assessment of the recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the within intangible assets, pending determination of whether potentially financial statements.
economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the drilling The 2009 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the tables showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial effort.
These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
The statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas determination is usually made within one year after well completion, but unaudited on pages 179 to 192. can take longer, depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
Recoverability of asset carrying values If the well did not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration BP assesses its fixed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment expense.
Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying of oil and natural gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure values of the assets may not be recoverable and, as a result, charges for e. g. offshore platform or a pipeline would be required before production impairment are recognized in the groups results from time to time.
Such indicators include changes in the groups business plans, changes in could begin, and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends on the successful completion of further exploration commodity prices leading to unprofitable performance, low plant work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as utilization, evidence of physical damage and, for oil and natural gas additional exploration appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
properties, significant downward revisions of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development expenditure.
If there are low It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for oil prices, natural gas prices, refining margins or marketing margins several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the during an extended period, the group may need to recognize significant potential oil and natural gas field is performed or while the optimum impairment charges.
The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying development plans and timing are established.
value of the asset or cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount, that is, the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future net cash flows.
94 Additional information for shareholders BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired Derivative financial instruments involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain future commodity prices, the effects of inflation on operating expenses, exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest discount rates, production profiles and the outlook for global or regional rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
In addition, market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and derivatives embedded within other financial instruments or other host refined products.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
are estimated based on the groups plans to continue to develop and All such derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date on produce proved reserves and associated risk-adjusted probable and which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently possible volumes.
Expected future cash flows from the sale or remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the production of these volumes are calculated based on the managements fair value of derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging best estimate of future oil and natural gas prices.
Prices for oil and instruments are recognized in the income statement.
natural gas used for future cash flow calculations are based on market In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using prices for the first five years and the groups long-term planning models and other valuation methods due to the absence of quoted prices assumptions thereafter.
As at 31 December 2009, the groups long-term or other observable, market-corroborated data.
In particular, this applies to planning assumptions were $75 per barrel for Brent and $7.50 mmBtu the majority of the groups natural gas embedded derivatives.
These are for Henry Hub 2008 $75 per barrel and $7.50 mmBtu.
These long-term primarily long-term UK gas contracts that use pricing formulas not related planning assumptions are subject to periodic review and modification.
to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
These contracts The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about are valued using models with inputs that include price curves for each of future commodity prices, lifting and development costs, field decline the different products that are built up from active market pricing data and rates, market demand and supply, economic regulatory climates and extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts using the maximum available other factors.
Additionally, where limited data exists for The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cashcertain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
Price volatility is also an input for the models.
discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost Changes in the key assumptions could have a material impact on the of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any gains and losses on embedded derivatives recognized in the income specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is statement.
For more information see Financial statements Note 31 on located, although other rates may be used if appropriate to the specific page 152.
An analysis of the sensitivity of the fair value of the embedded circumstances.
In 2009 the rates ranged from 9% to 13% 2008 11% derivatives to changes in the key assumptions is provided in Financial to 13%.
The rate applied in each country is re-assessed each year by statements Note 24 on page 144. analysing relevant information.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, Provisions and contingencies BP is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and business combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their $8.6 billion on its balance sheet 2008 $9.9 billion, principally relating economic lives.
The largest asset removal obligations facing BP relate to to the Atlantic Richfield and Burmah Castrol acquisitions.
In testing the removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and pipelines goodwill for impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that around the world.
The estimated discounted costs of dismantling and described above.
If there are low oil prices or natural gas prices or removing these facilities are accrued on the installation of those refining margins or marketing margins for an extended period, the group facilities, reflecting our legal obligations at that time.
A corresponding may need to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
In 2009, asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created within an impairment loss of $1.6 billion was recognized to write off all of the property, plant and equipment.
This asset is depreciated over the goodwill allocated to the US West Coast fuels value chain.
The prevailing expected life of the production facility or pipeline.
Most of these removal weak refining environment, together with a review of future margin events are many years in the future and the precise requirements that expectations in the FVC, led to a reduction in the expected future will have to be met when the removal event actually occurs are cash flows.
Asset removal technologies and costs are constantly changing, as well as political, environmental, safety and public Taxation expectations.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash The computation of the groups income tax expense involves the flows are subject to significant uncertainty.
Changes in the expected interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions future costs are reflected in both the provision and the asset.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the group, Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, petrochemicals facilities are generally not provided for, as such potential can take several years to complete and in some cases it is difficult to obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement predict the ultimate outcome.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses in certain petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts and taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent provision.
that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed unused tax losses can be utilized.
Management judgement is exercised annually, together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash in assessing whether this is the case.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements at the end of 2009 was 1.75% 2008 2%.
The interest rate represents estimates, taxation charges or credits may arise in future periods.
For the real rate i. e. excluding the impacts of inflation on long-dated more information see Financial statements Note 16 on page 137 and government bonds.
