Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting 8.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 8 set of Fidelity European Values PLC will be held at 25 out above, the Directors be and they are hereby Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA on 18 May 2010 authorised, pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the at 12 noon for the following purposes: Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority ORDINARY BUSINESS given by the said Resolution 7 as if Section 561 of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided Financial Statements for the year ended 31 that this power shall be limited: December 2009. a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 2.
To elect Dr Niblett as a Director.
with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity 3.
To re-elect Mr Fraser as a Director.
securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are 4.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report either proportionate as nearly as may be to for the year ended 31 December 2009. the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted 5.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of in accordance with the rights attaching to such the Company to hold office until the conclusion of equity securities subject in either case to such the next general meeting at which financial exclusions or other arrangements as the Board statements are laid before the Company.
may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical 6.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors problems under the laws of, or the requirements remuneration.
of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolutions 7 and 8 will, if approved, authorise the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant Directors to allot a limited number of the currently to a rights issue of equity securities up to unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering an aggregate nominal amount of 626,250 such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 5% amount of the issued share capital of the of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in Company as at 5 March 2010 : and issue on 5 March 2010.
The Directors will only issue new shares under this authority to take advantage of c to the allotment of equity securities at a price opportunities in the market as they arise and only if of not less than the net asset value per share they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, resolutions which will be proposed, Resolution 7 as whichever is the earlier, save that this authority shall an ordinary resolution and Resolution 8 as a special allow the Company to make offers or agreements resolution: before the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer 7.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally or agreement as if the authority conferred by this and unconditionally authorised in accordance with resolution had not expired.
Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot Resolution 9 is a special resolution which, if approved, relevant securities as defined in that section up will renew the Companys authority to purchase its shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 626,250 for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount the number of ordinary shares in issue on 5 March 2010. of the issued share capital of the Company as at 5 March 2010 such authority to expire at the Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this Purchases will only be made in the market at prices authority shall allow the Company to make offers or below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby agreements before the expiry of this authority which resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 53 Notice of Meeting 9.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and Notes: unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 1 Explanatory notes of the principal changes to the 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make Companys Articles of Association Articles : market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the The Companys objects Company the shares provided that: The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are currently set out in the Companys a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The to be purchased shall be 7,512,000: Companys Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope b the minimum price which may be paid for a share of the activities the Company is authorised to is 25p: undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
c the maximum price which may be paid for a share The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the the constitutional significance of a companys middle market quotations for a share taken from memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides the London Stock Exchange Official List for the that a memorandum will record only the names of five business days immediately preceding the day subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber on which the share is purchased: has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the provisions which are contained in a companys conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October the Company unless such authority is renewed 2009, are deemed to be contained in a companys prior to such time: and articles of association but the company can remove these provisions by special resolution.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless to the expiry of such authority which will or may a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys be executed wholly or partly after the expiration objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for of such authority and may make a purchase of companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason, shares pursuant to any such contract.
the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its Resolution 10 is a special resolution which, if approved, Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act will amend the Companys Articles of Association to 2006, are treated as forming part of the Companys reflect changes required by the implementation of the Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009.
Explanatory notes detailing the Resolution 10 confirms the removal of these proposed amendments to the Articles of Association are provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this included in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting resolution will be to remove the statement currently contained in pages 54 and 55. in the Companys Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the new Articles also 10.
THAT the Articles of Association be amended and contain an express statement regarding the limited the subsequent revised Articles of Association of the liability of shareholders.
Company, produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of Articles which duplicate statutory provisions identification, be adopted in substitution for, and to Provisions in the current Articles which replicate the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the new Articles.
By Order of the Board This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not FIL Investments International be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Secretary 25 March 2010 Change of name Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Page 54 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Notice of Meeting Authorised share capital and unissued shares each proxy appointed by a member has one vote The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed for a company to have an authorised share capital by more than one member in which case the proxy and the new Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy limited as to the number of shares they can at any has been instructed by one or more members to time allot because allotment authority continues to vote for the resolution and by one or more members be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in to vote against the resolution.
The new Articles respect of employee share schemes.
remove provisions in the current Articles dealing with proxy voting on the basis that these are dealt with Redeemable shares in the Companies Act 2006 and contain a provision Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished clarifying how the provision of the Companies Act to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its 2006 giving a proxy a second vote on a show of articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The hands should apply to discretionary authorities.
Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised Chairmans casting vote by the articles.
The new Articles contain such an The new Articles remove the provision giving the authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors would of votes as this is no longer permitted under the need shareholders authority to issue new shares in Companies Act 2006. the usual way.
Adjournments for lack of quorum Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and Under the Companies Act 2006, as amended by the sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The current its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake General the relevant action.
The current Articles include these Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a clearer language into the new Articles and in some company will only require shareholder authority to do areas to conform the language of the new Articles any of these things and it will no longer be necessary with that used in the model articles for public for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly companies produced by the Department for the relevant enabling provisions have been removed Business, Innovations and Skills.
2 A member of the Company entitled to attend and Use of seals vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak and vote authority in its articles to have an official seal for use instead of him.
A member may appoint more than abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise authorisation has been removed in the new Articles.
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of The new Articles provide an alternative option for the the Company.
execution of documents other than share certificates.
Under the new Articles, when the seal is affixed to a 3 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned document it may be signed by one Director in the to the Registrars at the address on the form to arrive presence of a witness, whereas previously the not later than 12 noon on 16 May 2010.
Completion requirement was for signature by either a Director and and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a the Secretary or two Directors or such other person or shareholder from subsequently attending the persons as the Directors may approve.
meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
Vacation of office by Directors 4 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, The current Articles specify the circumstances in and any power of attorney or other authority under which a Director must vacate office.
The new Articles which it is signed or a copy of any such authority update these provisions to treat physical illness in the certified notarially or in some other way approved by same manner as mental illness.
the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, P O Box 25, Voting by proxies on a show of hands Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 55 Notice of Meeting hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours the voting rights in respect of those discretionary before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at proxies, when added to the interests in the which it is to be used.
Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting 5 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the tenders the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will the votes of the other joint holders and for this make the necessary notifications to the Company and purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
member holding three per cent or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a 6 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST voting rights and so would otherwise have a system, the CREST message must be received by the notification obligation under the Disclosure and issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 16 May 2010.
For Transparency Rules, need not make separate this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be notification to the Company and the Financial the time as determined by the timestamp applied to Services Authority.
the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the 10 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated message.
After this time any change of instructions Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has to a proxy appointed through CREST should be specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose Personal Members or other CREST sponsored of determining the number of votes they may cast, members and those CREST Members who have members must be entered on the register of appointed voting service provider s should contact members by 6.00pm on 16 May 2010.
If the meeting their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For be entered on the register of members at 6.00pm further information on CREST procedures, limitations on the day two days before the time fixed for the and systems timings please refer to the CREST adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in in that notice.
Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any case your proxy form must 11 As at 5 March 2010 the latest practicable date prior be received by the Companys Registrars no later to the publication of this document the Companys than 12 noon on 16 May 2010. issued share capital consisted of 50,117,656 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total 7 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the number of voting rights in the Company as at Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right 5 March 2010 was 50,117,656. to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 12 noon 12 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one on 16 May 2010. or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided 8 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights 13 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they a Nominated Person may, under an agreement appoint understand that by attending the meeting between him and the member by whom he was they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have receive any communications, including someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
communications relating to the Companys securities, If a Nominated Person has no such proxy made at the meeting.
appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give 14 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by instructions to the member as to the exercise of members of the Company under Section 527 of the voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 to publish on its website a statement setting out any above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The matter relating to the audit of the Companys right described in that paragraph can only be accounts including the Auditors report and the exercised by members of the Company.
conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance 9 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes to hold office since the previous meeting at which the which are the subject of those proxies are cast and annual report and financial statements were laid.
The Page 56 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Notice of Meeting business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
15 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 6 April 2010, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
16 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
17 A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 57 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you You may invest in the Companys shares through the have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity the Designation Box on the Share Plan application ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your form.
A special leaflet on investing for children through investment, because you will not have to pay income investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
or capital gains tax on your returns.
The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 7,200 for the The Manager of the Company FIL Investments 2009 2010 tax year.
From 6 October 2009, investors International offers a range of options, so that you aged 50 and over on 5 April 2010 may invest up to can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity 10,200 in ISA accounts overall.
The full amount may be European Values PLC is a company listed on the London invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or 5,100 3,600 Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a prior to 6 October 2009 in a Cash ISA and the balance stockbroker, share shop or bank.
in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
From 6 April 2010, investors may invest up to 10,200 in ISA accounts overall Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or regardless of age minimum 18 years old of which up to holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust 5,100 can be held in a cash ISA and the balance in a Share Plan other than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is Stocks and Shares ISA.
currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there may be an initial The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 charge of up to 3%.
as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular savings plan.
Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity European Values PLC that you bought through a broker Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA or share shop you can transfer them into the Fidelity is 3.5%.
Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
Doing this allows you to There are no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the reinvest your dividends and make further investments Company pays an annual management charge to without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee where able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
There is an statements and valuations twice a year.
additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT when you invest through a Financial Adviser.
BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS MOVING MONEY FROM PREVIOUS ISAS Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are If you have opened ISAs with other investment able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA and their shares to receive information rights.
You should invest in Fidelity European Values PLC without losing any contact your registered shareholder direct to request tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a to receive your information rights.
Please note that great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note by the registered holder of those shares to receive that during the transfer your money will not be invested information rights under Section 146 of the Companies in the stockmarket so you may miss out on any growth Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to during this time.
the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, or to the Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is Company direct.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current INVESTING ONLINE ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
The annual You can invest online in Fidelity European Values PLC management charge is as described above in the shares via www.
Fidelity Investing inside an ISA section.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Exchange INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost and convenient restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able way to put money into Fidelity European Values PLC.
to buy or sell immediately.
If an order is placed when The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Unlike many online share dealing Page 58 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST registered office: FIL Investments International personal membership for shares held direct.
This Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower means that shares are registered on the CREST system Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP in your own name and everything relating to your shares Telephone: 01732 361144.
Fax: 01737 836 892 dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent www.
co. uk its direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE PORTAL CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, which must be held in the name of the ISA managers shareholders are able to manage their shareholding nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ShareNetwork online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, has a very competitive cost structure.
Share purchases or online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade.
Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
Account Enquiry Allows shareholders to access their There is an account administration fee of 5 per month, personal shareholding, including share transaction however many different shares you own and whatever history, dividend payment history and to obtain an their value.
up-to-date shareholding valuation: CONTACT INFORMATIONAmendment of Standing Data Allows shareholders Private investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, to change their registered postal address and add, 9am to 6pm, Monday to Saturday.
change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
Shareholders can also download from this site forms Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, such as change of address, stock transfer and 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
dividend mandate forms as well as buy and sell www.
co. uk its shares in the Company.
Existing shareholders who have a specific query To make use of any of these facilities, please log regarding their holding or need to provide update on to the Capita Registrars website at: information, for example a change of address, www.
com should contact the appropriate administrator: Should you have any queries in respect of the above Holders of ordinary shares facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity European Values Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p PLC, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or by Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Telephone: 0871 e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday Capita Share Dealing Services email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com You can make use of a low cost share dealing service provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
Further Details of individual shareholdings and other information information is available at www.
com, or by can also be obtained from the Registrars website: telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus www.
Lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Dealing Services you will Fidelity Share Plan investors also be able to deal in the shares of other companies for BNP Paribas Securities Services, Block C, Western which Capita acts as Registrar, provided you are already a House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, shareholder in the relevant company, and that company PE2 6BP.
Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this offers the Share Deal facility to its shareholders.
number are charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone Dividend Reinvestment Plan service providers costs may vary.
This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the Fidelity ISA investors Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, dividend instead of cash please complete an application or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity form online at www.
com or call Capita International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost 10p per Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ minute plus network extras from the UK or 44 20 8639 3402 from overseas.
co. uk sharenetwork ShareGift You may donate your shares to charity free of charge General enquiries should be made to Fidelity, the through ShareGift.
Further details are available at Investment Manager and Secretary, at the Companys www.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 59 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC KEEPING YOU UPDATED If you hold Fidelity European Values PLC shares in an ISA, you will receive a yearly report detailing all of your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of Fidelity European Values PLC appears daily in The Financial Times.
Price and performance information is also available at fidelity.
co. uk its You can also obtain current price information by telephoning Fidelity on 0800 41 41 10 freephone or FT Cityline on 0906 843 0000, selecting option 2 and entering 2287 calls charged at 60p per minute on a per second basis from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone networks may vary.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
Page 60 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 87% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
