BP Annual Review 2009 Information for shareholders Annual general meeting Reports and publications The 2010 annual general meeting will be held on Thursday, BPs reports and publications are available to view online 15 April 2010 at 11.30 a. m. at ExCeL London, One Western or download from www.
Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided on a poll.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in of ce as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included in Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2010.
Dividends We currently announce dividends on our ordinary shares in US dollars and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
The rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the average of the forward exchange rate in London over the five business days prior to the announcement date.
Dividends are normally paid in March, June, September and December.
Holders of ordinary shares receive their dividends in sterling: holders of ADSs receive their dividends in US dollars.
One ADS represents six ordinary shares.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 15 April, an optional scrip dividend programme, allowing shareholders to choose to receive dividends in the form of new fully paid shares or ADSs in BP p. l. c. instead of cash, will be available for future dividends.
If approved, the requirements of the programme Annual Report and Accounts Sustainability Review mean that there will be certain changes to our current dividend Read details of our financial Read the summary timetable.
The programme would replace the companys current and operating performance in BP Sustainability Review dividend reinvestment plans.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 in print or read more 2009 in print or online.
com sustainability More information For more information on holding BP shares or ADSs, our investor centre at www.
com investor contains information that you You can order BPs printed publications, free of charge, from: may nd helpful regarding your investment in BP.
BP Annual Review 2009 contains a summary of certain US and Canada UK and Rest of World information in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009.
For a full Precision IR BP Distribution Services understanding of the results and state of affairs of BP and of its Toll-free 1 888 301 2505 Tel 44 0 870 241 3269 policies and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, Fax 1 804 327 7549 Fax 44 0 870 240 5753 please see BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009. bpreports@precisionir.
com To change how you receive shareholder documents, or if you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, you should contact Equiniti ordinary and preference shareholders or JPMorgan ADS holders.
com shareholderservices Acknowledgements Paper Design sasdesign.
co. uk This Annual Review is printed on for more information.
Typesetting Orb Solutions, London FSC-certi ed Revive Pure White Printing St Ives Westerham Press Uncoated.
This paper has been Ltd, UK, ISO 14001, FSC-certi ed independently certi ed according to and CarbonNeutral the rules of the Forest Stewardship Photography Action Images, Council FSC and was manufactured Giles Barnard, Stuart Conway, at a mill that holds ISO 14001 Steven Croston, Jerry Davidson, accreditation.
The inks used are all Richard Davies, Joshua Drake, vegetable oil based.
Damian Gillie, David Gold, Barry Halton, Simon Kreitem, Mark Lawrence, Ian McGregor, Marc Morrison, Aaron Tait, Graham Trott BP p. l. c. 2010 33 beyond petroleum
