Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements 43.
Subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates The more important subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates of the group at 31 December 2009 and the group percentage of ordinary share capital or joint venture interest to nearest whole number are set out below.
The principal country of operation is generally indicated by the companys country of incorporation or by its name.
Those held directly by the parent company are marked with an asterisk, the percentage owned being that of the group unless otherwise indicated.
A complete list of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates will be attached to the parent companys annual return made to the Registrar of Companies.
Country of Country of Subsidiaries % incorporation Principal activities Subsidiaries % incorporation Principal activities International Netherlands BP Corporate Holdings 100 England Investment holding BP Capital 100 Netherlands Finance BP Exploration Op.
Co. 100 England Exploration and production BP Nederland 100 Netherlands Refining and marketing BP Global Investments 100 England Investment holding BP International 100 England Integrated oil operations New Zealand BP Oil International 100 England Integrated oil operations BP Oil New Zealand 100 New Zealand Marketing BP Shipping 100 England Shipping Burmah Castrol 100 Scotland Lubricants Norway Jupiter Insurance 100 Guernsey Insurance BP Norge 100 Norway Exploration and production Algeria Spain BP Amoco Exploration BP Espaa 100 Spain Refining and marketing In Amenas 100 Scotland Exploration and production BP Exploration El South Africa Djazair 100 Bahamas Exploration and production BP Southern Africa 75 South Africa Refining and marketing Angola Trinidad & Tobago BP Exploration Angola 100 England Exploration and production BP Trinidad and Tobago 70 US Exploration and production Australia BP Oil Australia 100 Australia Integrated oil operations UK BP Australia Capital BP Capital Markets 100 England Finance Markets 100 Australia Finance BP Oil UK 100 England Marketing BP Developments Britoil 100 Scotland Exploration and production Australia 100 Australia Exploration and production BP Finance Australia 100 Australia Finance US BP Holdings North Azerbaijan America 100 England Investment holding Amoco Caspian Sea British Virgin Exploration and production Atlantic Richfield Co. Petroleum 100 Islands BP America BP Exploration BP America Caspian Sea 100 England Exploration and production Production Company Canada BP Amoco Chemical BP Canada Energy 100 Canada Exploration and production Company Exploration and production, BP Canada Finance 100 Canada Finance refining and marketing, BP Company 100 US pipelines and North America Egypt petrochemicals BP Corporation BP Egypt Co. 100 US Exploration and production North America BP Exploration Germany Alaska Inc. Deutsche BP 100 Germany Refining and marketing BP Products and petrochemicals North America BP West Coast Indonesia Products BP Berau 100 US Exploration and production Standard Oil Co. BP Capital Markets America Finance 177 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements 43.
Subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates continued Country of incorporation Jointly controlled entities % or registration Principal activities Angola LNG Supply Services 14 US LNG processing and transportation Atlantic 4 Holdings 38 US LNG manufacture Atlantic LNG 2 3 Company of Trinidad and Tobago 43 Trinidad & Tobago LNG manufacture BP-Husky Refining 50 US Refining Elvary Neftegaz Holdings BV 49 Netherlands Exploration and appraisal a Pan American Energy 60 US Exploration and production Petromonagas 17 Venezuela Exploration and production Ruhr Oel 50 Germany Refining and marketing and petrochemicals Shanghai SECCO Petrochemical Co. 50 China Petrochemicals Sunrise Oil Sands 50 Canada Exploration and production United Gas Derivatives Company 33 Egypt LNG manufacture a Watson Cogeneration 51 US Power generation a The entity is not controlled by BP as certain key business decisions require joint approval of both BP and the minority partner.
It is therefore classified as a jointly controlled entity rather than a subsidiary.
Associates % Country of incorporation Principal activities Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi Marine Areas 37 England Crude oil production Abu Dhabi Petroleum Co. 24 England Crude oil production Azerbaijan The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline Co. 30 Cayman Islands Pipelines South Caucasus Pipeline Co. 26 Cayman Islands Pipelines Russia TNK-BP 50 British Virgin Islands Integrated oil operations Trinidad & Tobago Atlantic LNG Company of Trinidad and Tobago 34 Trinidad & Tobago LNG manufacture 178
