We started up the Tangguh LNG project in 2009, BP Annual Review 2009 with the first LNG cargo shipped from West Papua Our business performance in Indonesia to South Korea just over four years after final project sanction.
Tangguh is a major new resource to global energy markets, adding around 7.6 million tonnes of LNG for export per year.
Located more than 3,000 kilometres east of the Indonesian capital Jakarta, Exploration discoveries and hundreds of miles from the nearest major city, and access success in 2009 accessible only by air or sea, the project faced environmental, social and technical challenges.
It was nevertheless delivered in record time and is now one Jordan Iraq of the worlds most sophisticated and ef cient LNG Egypt projects.
Its success is a tribute to the close co-operation throughout its development between BP, the Government Canada of Indonesia, regulators, partners, contractors and the Angola local communities in Papua.
Texas In Trinidad we started production from Savonette.
Gulf of Mexico Here, gas will supply Atlantic LNGs liquefaction plant for export as LNG to international markets, as well as the domestic market.
The Savonette platform is the fourth in a series of normally unmanned installations developed using an ef cient, standardized approach Pakistan to platform design and construction.
Through TNK-BP we saw the start-up of another two projects in Russia, in the northern hub of Indonesia Kamennoye and in the Urna and Ust-Tegus elds in the Exploration discoveries Uvat area.
Also in 2009 we saw the full bene t of our New access 2008 start-ups, including Thunder Horse in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Saqqara and Taurt elds in Egypt.
Exploration success in 2009 has created the basis for an exciting future.
We drilled the deepest oil and gas discovery well ever to make the Tiber discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We are Developing agship technologies setting world records for land 3D seismic data acquisition rates in Developing and applying new technology is the key Libya and acquired the most northerly 3D survey on the planet, in to increasing recovery from our resource base and Canada.
We continued to build interests in the Gulf of Mexico, operating safely and more ef ciently.
Technology also Egypt, Indonesia, Pakistan and in US shale gas, and we made major new entries into Iraq and Jordan.
affords us a competitive advantage when bidding for new access opportunities.
We focus on technologies with the potential to have the greatest impact on our Growing our resource base business we call them agship technologies and Our oil and gas resource base provides the foundation we prioritize our research and development and for future growth.
Each year we set out to replace technology investments here.
We have 10 agship more reserves of oil and gas than we produced in the technologies and consider that each has the potential previous 12 months.
2009 was the 17th consecutive to add more than 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent of year we achieved this, delivering reported reserves additional reserves.
We continue to drive renewal through new access, exploration, targeted acquisitions and a strategic focus on increasing resources from Transforming potential elds we currently operate.
into production In 2009 our exploration track record continued with the Tiber discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, three further discoveries in the ultra deepwater In 2009 we operated more enhanced oil recovery Block 31 in Angola, and in Canada, where we discovered projects in conventional oil elds than any of our major competitors and this helped us retain our industrynatural gas with the Ellice J27 well.
We were also successful in accessing substantial new resource leading track record on reported reserves replacement.
opportunities in Iraq Rumaila, Egypt, the Gulf of Mexico, Our know-how and technologies are enabling us to Indonesia Sanga Sanga coalbed methane and, subject maximize new resources and reawaken signi cant, well-established elds such as Samotlor in Russia to Government of Indonesia approval, West Papua Blocks I and III and Jordan.
We also acquired new and now Rumaila in Iraq.
resources, adding to our shale gas portfolio with a Some 60% of BPs oil production is supported transaction to access acreage in the Eagle Ford Shale by water ooding the technique of using water to help push oil out of reservoirs.
By developing new in south Texas, which provides the potential for further technologies to increase recovery beyond conventional growth of our North America Gas business.
water ooding, such as Bright Water and LoSal, Project start-ups we have the potential to shift todays technical limit and further improve recovery factors.
We have now In 2009 we brought seven major projects onstream.
performed 38 Bright Water treatments in Alaska, We continue to grow our position and leverage our experience as the largest producer in the Gulf of Argentina and Pakistan, which have delivered an Mexico, starting up three projects ahead of schedule, increase of more than 9 million barrels to our including the second phase of Atlantis.
recoverable volumes at a development cost of less than $6 per barrel.
