Our performance BP Annual Review 2009 BP continues to invest throughout the entire biofuels Our business performance value chain, from sustainable feedstocks that minimize pressure on food supplies through to the development of the advantaged fuel molecule biobutanol.
We now have our first joint-venture ethanol re nery, in Brazil, and a second joint-venture facility is under construction in the UK.
In 2009 we announced a $45-million investment in Alternative a joint venture with Verenium, which plans to construct a facility to produce lignocellulosic bioethanol in Florida, Energy US.
We also announced a $10-million multi-year agreement with Martek Biosciences Corporation to establish proof of concept for large-scale microbial biodiesel production through the fermentation of sugars.
Our wind business has focused its operations in the US, where we have a very strong portfolio and see the most attractive opportunities.
In 2009 we added a further 279MW of capacity with the construction of two wind farms Fowler Ridge II in Indiana and Titan I in South Dakota.
This, together with the start of commercial operations at other facilities during 2009, took our total capacity in commercial operation to 711MW 1,237MW gross an increase of 65% over 2008.
1 BPs solar business increased unit sales by 25% over 2008 despite a challenging solar market, with weak demand in the first half of the year and a signi cant decrease in module sales prices of about 40%.
During 2009 we continued to restructure manufacturing activities to reduce unit cost and increase competitiveness.
BP has also played a leading role in the CCS industry for more than 10 years, and today focuses on full-scale projects and a continuing programme of research and technology development.
Our 400MW Hydrogen Power Abu Dhabi project, with partner Masdar, made progress during 2009 after its environment and social impact assessment was fully approved by Abu Dhabis environmental regulator, an important project milestone.
BP and Rio Tinto continue to develop the Hydrogen Energy California 250MW power project with CCS, which secured $308 million of Department of Energy funding Alternative Energy made good progress during 2009. in 2009, focusing on four key businesses a that we believe have the potential to be a Net rated wind capacity at year-end megawatts material source of low-carbon energy and 711 2009 are aligned with BPs core capabilities.
432 2008 Highlights Announced $55 million in biofuels joint ventures.
a Net wind capacity is the sum of the rated capacities of the Solar power sales up 25%.
assets turbines that have entered into commercial operation, Funding and regulatory approvals for hydrogen power projects.
including BPs share of equity-accounted entities.
What we do 2 Alternative Energy comprises BPs low-carbon businesses and future growth options outside oil and gas.
We are focused on four key businesses with the potential to be viable, large-scale and long-term biofuels, wind, solar, and hydrogen power and carbon capture and storage CCS.
Since 2005 we have invested more than $4 billion in Alternative Energy, in line with our commitment to invest $8 billion by 2015.
Images 1 Fowler Ridge II wind farm, Indiana, US.
2 Tropical BioEnergia biofuels joint venture, Brazil.
