BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements 8.
Impairment review of goodwill $ million Goodwill at 31 December 2009 2008 Exploration and Production 4,297 4,297 Refining and Marketing 4,245 5,462 Other businesses and corporate 78 119 8,620 9,878 Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
For Exploration and Production, goodwill has been allocated to each geographic region, that is UK, Rest of Europe, US and Rest of World, and for Refining and Marketing, goodwill has been allocated to the Rhine fuels value chain FVC, US West Coast FVC, Lubricants and Other.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use.
The group calculates the recoverable amount as the value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located.
The rate to be applied to each country is reassessed each year.
A discount rate of 11% has been used for all goodwill impairment calculations performed in 2009 2008 11%.
The business segment plans, which are approved on an annual basis by senior management, are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use.
They contain forecasts for oil and natural gas production, refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of refined products e. g. gasoline and lubricants, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various environmental assumptions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, refining margins, refined product margins and cost inflation rates, are set by senior management.
These environmental assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability.
Exploration and Production $ million 2009 2008 Rest of Rest of UK US World Total UK US World Total Goodwill 341 3,441 515 4,297 341 3,441 515 4,297 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 7,721 15,528 n a n a 7,972 16,692 n a n a The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing field.
As the production profile and related cash flows can be estimated from the companys past experience, management believes that the cash flows generated over the estimated life of field is the appropriate basis upon which to assess goodwill and individual assets for impairment.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of the fields are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BPs management for the purpose.
Capital expenditure and operating costs for the first four years and expected hydrocarbon production profiles up to 2020 are derived from the business segment plan.
Estimated production quantities and cash flows up to the date of cessation of production on a field-by-field basis are developed to be consistent with this.
The production profiles used are consistent with the resource volumes approved as part of BPs centrally-controlled process for the estimation of proved reserves and total resources.
Consistent with prior years, the 2009 review for impairment was carried out during the fourth quarter.
As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations of recoverable amount performed in 2008 for the US and the UK, and calculations performed in 2005 for the Rest of World, were used for the 2009 impairment test as the criteria of IAS 36 were considered to be satisfied: the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount the headroom was substantial in 2008 for the US and the UK and 2005 for the Rest of World : there had been no significant change in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time of the test was remote.
The table above shows the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to each of the regions of the Exploration and Production segment and, where required, the headroom in the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The estimates of headroom at 31 December 2009 for the UK and the US are based on recoverable amounts determined in 2008 and carrying amounts at 31 December 2009.
No impairment charge is required.
For 2008, the Brent oil price assumption was an average $49 per barrel in 2009, $59 per barrel in 2010, $65 per barrel in 2011, $68 per barrel in 2012, $70 per barrel in 2013 and $75 per barrel in 2014 and beyond.
The Henry Hub natural gas price assumption was an average of $6.16 mmBtu in 2009, $7.15 mmBtu in 2010, $7.34 mmBtu in 2011, $7.62 mmBtu in 2012, $7.60 mmBtu in 2013 and $7.50 mmBtu in 2014 and beyond.
The prices for the first five years were derived from forward price curves at the year-end.
Prices in 2014 and beyond were determined using long-term views of global supply and demand, building upon past experience of the industry and consistent with a number of external economic forecasts.
These prices were adjusted to arrive at appropriate consistent price assumptions for different qualities of oil and gas.
The key assumptions required for the value-in-use estimation are the oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
To test the sensitivity of the headroom to changes in production volumes and oil and natural gas prices, management has developed rules of thumb for key assumptions.
Applying these gives an indication of the impact on the headroom of possible changes in the key assumptions.
132 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements 8.
Impairment review of goodwill continued In the prior year it was estimated that the long-term price of oil that would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount for each cash-generating unit would be of the order of $38 per barrel for the UK and $50 per barrel for the US.
It was estimated that the long-term price of gas that would cause the total recoverable amount to be equal to the total carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets for the US cashgenerating unit would be of the order of $4 mmBtu Henry Hub.
As a significant amount of gas from the North Sea is sold under fixed-price contracts, or contracts priced using non-gas indices, it was estimated that no reasonably possible change in gas prices would cause the UK headroom to be reduced to zero.
It was estimated that no reasonably possible change in oil and gas prices would cause the headroom in Rest of World to be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for the fields and take into account development plans for the fields agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
In 2008, it was estimated that, if all our production were to be reduced by 10% for the whole of the next 15 years, this would not be sufficient to reduce the excess of recoverable amount over the carrying amounts of each cash-generating unit to zero.
Consequently, management believes no reasonably possible change in the production assumption would cause the carrying amounts to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Management also believes that currently there is no reasonably possible change in discount rate that would cause the carrying amounts in the UK, US or Rest of World to exceed the recoverable amounts.
Refining and Marketing $ million 2009 2008 US West Rhine FVC Lubricants Other Total Rhine FVC Coast FVC Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 655 3,416 174 4,245 637 1,579 3,043 203 5,462 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 2,034 n a n a n a 3,603 1,629 5,445 n a n a For all cash-generating units, the cash flows for the first two or five years are derived from the business segment plan.
For determining the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years have been discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
Rhine FVC As a result of the continuing integration of our businesses into fuels value chains, convenience retail operations in the Rhine region were incorporated into the Rhine FVC from the beginning of 2009.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rhine FVC is most sensitive are refinery gross margins, production volumes, and discount rate.
Refinery gross margins used in the plan are derived from assumptions that are consistent with those used to develop the regional Global Indicator Margin GIM.
The regional GIM is based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity available in the region.
The average values assigned to the regional GIM and refinery production volume over the plan period are $4.05 per barrel and 254mmbbl a year 2008 $5.50 per barrel and 250mmbbl a year.
The values reflect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
Cash flows beyond the five-year plan period are extrapolated using a 2.4% growth rate 2008 cash flows beyond the three-year plan period were extrapolated using a 1.2% growth rate.
2009 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity of value in use to a change in refinery margins of $1 per barrel $ billion 2.2 Adverse change in refinery margins to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount $ per barrel 0.9 Sensitivity of value in use to a 5% change in production volume $ billion 0.8 Adverse change in production volume to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount mmbbl per year 31 Sensitivity of value in use to a change in the discount rate of 1% $ billion 0.8 Discount rate to reduce recoverable amount to carrying amount 14% Lubricants The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Lubricants unit is most sensitive are operating unit margins, sales volumes, and discount rate.
The values assigned to these key assumptions reflect past experience.
No reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
For 2008 the average values assigned to the operating margin and sales volumes over the plan period were 70 cents per litre and 3.4 billion litres per year, respectively.
Cash flows beyond the two-year plan period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2008 cash flows beyond the three-year plan period were extrapolated using a 3% growth rate.
US West Coast FVC As disclosed in Note 3, the impairment review of goodwill allocated to the US West Coast FVC resulted in the recognition of an impairment loss in 2009 to write off the entire balance of $1,579 million.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the US West Coast FVC was most sensitive in 2008 were refinery gross margins, production volumes and discount rates.
The average value assigned to the refinery gross margin during the plan period was based on a $7.60 per barrel regional GIM.
The average value assigned to the production volume was 170mmbbl a year over the plan period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year plan period were extrapolated using a 2% growth rate.
These assumptions reflected past experience and were consistent with external sources.
