What we do BP Annual Review 2009 Our Re ning and Marketing business is responsible Our business performance for the supply and trading, re ning, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to wholesale and retail customers.
We market our products in more than 80 countries and have a particularly strong presence in Europe and North Re ning America.
We also manufacture and market our products across Australasia, in China and other and Marketing parts of Asia, Africa and Central and South America.
Our market Re ning margins fell sharply in 2009 as demand for oil products contracted in the wake of the global economic Iain Conn recession and new re ning capacity was completed, Chief Executive, mostly in Asia.
During 2009 distillate inventories were Re ning and Marketing consistently above the top of the range of the past five years.
Gasoline inventories grew steadily and were generally at or slightly above the average level of the past five years.
Overall, this led to an excess of supply over demand for oil products.
As a result, the BP global indicator re ning margin a broad measure of re ning pro tability averaged Re ning and Marketing $4 per barrel in 2009, down $2.50 per barrel compared Results $ million with 2008.
This margin decline had a signi cant adverse impact on our financial performance.
743 In our international businesses, we saw a decline 2009 in demand for lubricants due to the financial crisis.
During 4,176 the year we saw a partial recovery in the demand for our 2008 petrochemicals products.
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Our strategy In 2009 the replacement cost pro t before interest and tax was heavily impacted Our purpose is to be the productand service-led arm of a by non-operating items and the signi cantly weaker re ning environment.
These BP, focused on fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals products adverse factors were partly offset by greatly improved operational performance b and related services.
We aim to be excellent in the and a reduction in costs of more than 15%.
markets we choose to be in those that allow BP to serve the major energy markets of the world.
We are in pursuit of competitive returns and enduring growth, as we serve customers and promote BP and our brands through quality products.
Key to our continued success In 2009 Re ning and Marketing is holding a portfolio of quality, ef cient, integrated continued to drive forward its positions and accessing available growth.
transformation, achieving a strong Our performance performance while maintaining its In 2007 we identi ed that our financial performance focus on safe, reliable and compliant lagged that of competitors.
Our objective was to restore performance over a period of three to four years by operations.
This re ects the fundamental focusing on achieving safe, reliable and compliant improvements we have made to the operations, restoring missing revenues and delivering business, which is now able to compete sustainable competitive returns and cash ows.
Our 2009 performance has bene ted from the and win despite tough market conditions.
fundamental improvements we have made and continue to make across the business.
This includes Highlights measures taken to restore the availability of our re ning Overall performance again competitive with peers.
system, reduce costs and simplify the organization.
All our operated re neries and petrochemicals plants now on BPs operating management system OMS.
Operational performance signi cantly improved, with both Re ning throughput re ning availability and throughput up.
b Costs reduced by more than 15% across the segment.
Re ning throughput International businesses performing well and extending measures the average positions in emerging markets.
number of barrels per day 2.3 Integrated fuels value chains FVCs delivering bene ts we process through our from simpli cation.
In 2009 we increased our re ning million a Non-operating items are charges and credits arising in consolidated entities that throughput by 132,000 barrels per day BP discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be meaningful barrels per day.
This is and relevant to investors.
See footnote b on page 23 for more information.
the equivalent of adding b Based on Re ning and Marketings share of production and manufacturing a medium-sized re nery expenses plus distribution and administration expenses.
18 1 Connected, simpli ed, competitive Establish one set of targets, priorities and processes for the entire regional organization, from re ning to logistics, marketing, supply, trading and service stations.
That was the clear but immense task facing our Australia and New Zealand ANZ business back in 2001, when performance failed to match expectation.
In response, teams worked together to start to simplify decision-making, integrate planning between assets and clarify accountability, with the aim of creating our first integrated fuels value chain FVC.
An independent but 100%-owned backof ce organization was formed to enhance customer service and reduce costs.
Complex internal transfers were scrapped and our focus was on overall value-chain pro tability.
These decisive actions have transformed the ANZ business, with financial performance improving considerably since the creation of the FVC.
We are winning in a fast-growing regional market.
We are also better positioned to address energy security, given the complexity that comes from Australias dispersed population and demand, and the distance from supply sources.
The ANZ turnaround is proving an invaluable example as we move to fully integrated FVCs across our six geographies worldwide.
Images 1 BP supply ship at Texas City re nery, US.
2 BP truck at Whinstanes Terminal, Australia.
2 3 4 1 Liquid innovation From cars to ships, from steel mills to oil rigs advanced lubricants are an essential element across industry and transport.
NASA even used a Castrol uid in a Mars probe.
Given the global challenge of increasing energy ef ciency while reducing emissions, lubricants are set to play an even more important role.
You will already nd teams at our technology centres helping to design and test the engines of tomorrow.
By combining technical know-how with distinctive branding, deep customer relationships and a global supply chain, BP has established itself as a key player in the lubricants market.
We are now focused on enhancing our position as a highperformance brand and organization.
In 2009 this meant continuing to prioritize the pursuit of industry-leading product innovation and ef ciency to ensure that we provide the best possible value to our customers.
We have the strongest brand loyalty in the lubricants a category across our core markets and we have extended our position in China, India, Brazil and Russia, with almost 30% of income generated from emerging markets in 2009.
Our challenge now is to sustain success in a fast-changing market.
Images 1 Castrol lubricants dealership, Vietnam.
4 Castrol sponsorship, 2010 FIFA World Cup.
4 Photo by Action Images We believe our overall performance has now returned BP Annual Review 2009 to being competitive with our supermajor peers, Our business performance but that there is signi cant potential for further performance improvements.
Safety remains our top priority both process and personal safety.
By the end of 2009, all our operated re neries and petrochemicals plants were operating on Re ning availability % the BP OMS.
Within our US re neries, we continue to implement the recommendations of the BP US 93.6 2009 Re neries Independent Safety Review Panel Baker Panel and regulatory bodies.
This has helped us to 88.8 reduce the number of reported major incidents by 2008 90% since 2005.
We have also reduced the number 020 40 60 80 of oil spills and the recordable injury frequency in our workforce to the lowest levels for 10 years, and there Re ning availability measures the readiness of our re neries were no workforce fatalities associated with our to re ne crude oil into fuels.
In 2009 we increased our re ning a availability by around five percentage points to 93.6%.
This operations in 2009. improvement enabled us to capture more of the available margin.
Replacement cost pro t before interest and tax was $0.7 billion for 2009, compared with $4.2 billion in 2008 despite re ning margins being down $2.50 per barrel.
The result was heavily impacted by a one-off, SECCO upgrades to non-operating charge of $1.6 billion to write off all the segments goodwill relating to BPs 2000 ARCO meet demand in China acquisition.
This resulted from our annual review of goodwill as required under International Financial In 2009 our SECCO joint venture with Sinopec Reporting Standards and re ects the prevailing weak expanded its capacity by 25%, creating Chinas largest re ning environment that, together with a review ethylene cracker, capable of producing 1.3 million tonnes of future margin expectations in the FVC, has led to of ethylene per year.
The plants exceptional scale and a reduction in the expected future cash ows.
Despite ef ciency enables it to meet strong demand growth this, our financial performance bene ted from improved competitively in the heart of the worlds largest operational performance and costs being more than market China.
In our international businesses, performance was better than in 2008, driven by lower costs.
Our focus on operations delivered signi cant a Restoration complete, performance improvements in 2009.
Re ning availability for the year was 93.6%, up around 5% from 2008. improvement continues Average throughputs were up by 132,000 barrels per day in 2008, up more than 6%.
2009 also saw further BPs re ning business is on a journey to become, and signi cant improvements at Texas City, with a steady remain, the safest and most competitive in the industry.
ramp-up of production and increasing Solomon Since the shutdown in 2005, the Texas City availability each quarter.
The site is now operating re nery has undergone a major transformation with at its highest availability level since 2004.
275,000 feet of piping inspected, 27 miles of steam system renovated and 200 temporary structures Looking ahead, removed.
All major units are now fully restored and, In 2010, although demand has stabilized, we expect a during April 2009, the sites Solomon re ning availability the challenging economic environment to continue, exceeded 90% for the first time in four years.
To with weak demand for products and pressure on achieve this transformation, the re nery has invested margins.
In response, we will continue to focus on more than 60 million work-hours and both replaced delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations, retired staff and added new positions, with a total improving the performance of our integrated FVCs of 1,000 new employees during this period.
businesses particularly in the US and driving As important as the physical rebuild of the further cost ef ciencies across all our businesses.
site is the cultural change that has been achieved, We intend to maintain investment at 2009 levels, re ecting a relentless focus on safe, reliable and with the largest single investment being the Whiting compliant operations.
Process and personal safety re nery modernization project, which will strengthen metrics continue to show marked improvements our Midwest FVC.
and the site has completed the transition to the BP a Re ning represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is OMS four months ahead of schedule.
Activities are fide ned as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to turnaround activity and all prioritized with a focus on continuing progress toward planned mechanical, process and regulatory maintenance downtime.
b being the leader in process safety and implementing Based on Re ning and Marketings share of production and manufacturing expenses plus distribution and administration expenses.
Despite this signi cant progress, we have further to go in rebuilding relationships with our regulators, and we are committed to doing so.
