Proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently.
b Excludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 26 thousand barrels a day.
c Includes 819 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 23 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 20 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 243 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.86% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 68 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
f Volumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
b Includes 195 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 164 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 31 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities and excludes 16 billion cubic feet of produced non-hydrocarbon components which meet regulatory requirements for sales.
c Includes 3,068 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 131 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.79% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Volumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
b Excludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 19 thousand barrels a day.
c Includes 807 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 21 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 36 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 216 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.80% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 54 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
b Includes 193 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 149 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 44 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities and excludes 17 billion cubic feet of produced non-hydrocarbon components which meet regulatory requirements for sales.
c Includes 3,108 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 131 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.92% minority interest in TNK-BP.
b Excludes NGLs from processing plants in which an interest is held of 54 thousand barrels a day.
c Includes 739 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 20 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d The BP group holds interests, through associates, in onshore and offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi, expiring in 2014 and 2018 respectively.
During the second quarter of 2007, we updated our reporting policy in Abu Dhabi to be consistent with general industry practice and as a result have started reporting production and reserves there gross of production taxes.
This change resulted in an increase in our reserves of 153 million barrels and in our production of 33mb d. e Includes 26 million barrels of NGLs.
Also includes 210 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.51% minority interest in TNK-BP.
f Proved reserves in the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska include an estimated 98 million barrels upon which a net profits royalty will be payable over the life of the field under the terms of the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust.
g Volumes of equity-accounted entities include volumes of equity-accounted investments of those entities.
b Includes 202 billion cubic feet of natural gas consumed in operations, 161 billion cubic feet in subsidiaries, 41 billion cubic feet in equity-accounted entities and excludes 10.9 billion cubic feet of produced non-hydrocarbon components which meet regulatory requirements for sales.
c Includes 3,211 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 68 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 5.88% minority interest in TNK-BP.
