BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Segmental reporting 1.
Significant accounting policies The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in with International Financial Reporting Standards assessing performance.
The accounting policies of the operating The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year segments are the same as the groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss ended 31 December 2009 were approved and signed by the chairman and group chief executive on 26 February 2010 having been duly disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided authorized to do so by the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited regularly to the chief operating decision maker.
For BP, this measure of company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The profit or loss is replacement cost profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by excluding from profit consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost profit for the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by group is not a recognized measure under generally accepted accounting the European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the practice GAAP.
For further information see Note 4.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences Interests in joint ventures have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group are venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating set out below.
decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the Basis of preparation venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended 31 December The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity 2009, or issued and early adopted.
The standards and interpretations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method adopted in the year are described further on page 123. of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postThe accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all years presented.
The group balance sheet as at 1 January 2008 is acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly not presented as it is not affected by the retrospective adoption of any controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in new accounting policies during the year, nor any other retrospective value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars group income statement reflects the groups share of the results after and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except tax of the jointly controlled entity.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates made by management in applying the groups accounting made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 94 to 96, which into line with those of the group.
forms part of these financial statements.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in Basis of consolidation the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for recoverable amount.
the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Minority and Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in the venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the subsidiaries that is not held by the group.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these jointly controlled assets, along with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and expenses incurred in relation to the venture.
