What we do BP Annual Review 2009 BPs Exploration and Production business nds, Our business performance develops, produces and transports oil and gas to market.
We operate in 30 countries and employ 21,500 people.
Our strategy Our strategy is to invest to grow production safely, Exploration reliably and ef ciently by: Strengthening our portfolio of leadership positions in and Production the worlds most proli c hydrocarbon basins, enabled by the development and application of technology and strong relationships based on mutual advantage.
Sustainably driving cost and capital ef ciency in accessing, nding, developing and producing Andy Inglis resources, enabled by deep technical capability Chief Executive, and a culture of continuous improvement.
Exploration and Production Our performance Maintaining our focus on safety Safety, both personal and process, remains our highest priority.
2009 brought further improvement in personal safety with the segments reported recordable injury frequency improving from 0.43 in 2008 to 0.39 in 2009.
Exploration and Production We also achieved improvements in the number Results $ million of process safety-related incidents and a signi cant reduction in the number of spills.
24,800 During the year we continued our migration to 2009 the BP operating management system OMS, which 38,308 provides an increased focus on process safety and 2008 continuous improvement.
By the end of 2009, 87% of our operating sites had transitioned to OMS.
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 In 2009 a third-party-operated helicopter carrying Replacement cost pro t before interest and tax is our key measure of pro tability.
contractors from BPs Miller platform crashed in the The decrease in 2009, compared with the record level in 2008, was primarily North Sea, resulting in the tragic loss of 16 lives.
In driven by lower oil and gas realizations, offset in part by strong underlying addition, we sustained two fatalities within our own production growth of 5% and improved cost management, which contributed operations.
We deeply regret the loss of these lives.
to a 12% reduction in unit production costs.
Our financial performance in 2009 2009 was a successful year, with positive financial and operational momentum despite a backdrop of weaker 2009 was an excellent year for oil and gas prices.
Replacement cost pro t before Exploration and Production.
We improved interest and tax was $24.8 billion a 35% decrease compared with the record level in 2008.
This result personal safety and process safety, grew was primarily driven by lower oil and gas realizations, production and improved ef ciency.
We offset in part by strong underlying production growth of extended our track record for reported 5% and improved cost management, which contributed to a 12% reduction in unit production costs.
reserves replacement to 17 years and Production from our established centres, including made outstanding progress in securing the North Sea, Alaska, North America Gas and Trinidad & resources to support long-term growth.
Tobago was on plan, with improved operating ef ciency for the segment as a whole.
We had strong production growth in the Gulf of Mexico, including excellent Highlights performance from Thunder Horse, together with a 5% underlying production growth, with strong start-ups ahead of schedule for Atlantis Phase 2, Dorado operational performance.
Production from Egypt and TNK-BP also 12% reduction in unit production costs.
made a strong contribution to our growth.
17th consecutive year of reported reserves replacement The reduction in production costs was achieved of more than 100%.
through a combination of high-grading activity, improved Tiber discovery in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and three further discoveries in Block 31 in Angola.
execution ef ciency, capturing the bene ts of the fide ationary cost environment at the beginning of the New resource access in Iraq, Jordan, Egypt, Indonesia, the Gulf of Mexico and onshore US.
year and favourable foreign exchange effects.
This was Tangguh and six other major projects brought onstream.
done while maintaining our focus on safety and integrity.
We also improved the quality of our procurement and a Underlying production growth excludes the effect of entitlement changes in supply-chain management organization, systems and our production-sharing agreements driven by changes in oil and gas prices processes, which we expect will help deliver sustained and the effect of OPEC quota restrictions.
cost ef ciency in the future.
