Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited The regional analysis presented below is on a continent basis, with separate disclosure for countries that contain 15% or more of the total proved reserves for subsidiaries plus equity-accounted entities, in accordance with revised SEC and FASB requirements.
The comparative information for 2008 and 2007 is also presented on this basis.
For 2009, where relevant, information for equity-accounted entities is provided in the same level of detail as for subsidiaries.
Also for 2009, proved reserves are based on revised SEC definitions.
For details on BPs proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes, see pages 24 to 26.
Midstream activities relating to the management and ownership of crude oil and natural gas pipelines, processing and export terminals and LNG processing facilities and transportation are excluded.
In addition, our midstream activities of marketing and trading of natural gas, power and NGLs in the US, Canada, UK and Europe are excluded.
The most significant midstream pipeline interests include the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System, the Forties Pipeline System, the Central Area Transmission System pipeline, the South Caucasus Pipeline and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline.
Major LNG activities are located in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia and BP is also investing in the LNG business in Angola.
b Decommissioning assets are included in capitalized costs at 31 December but are excluded from costs incurred for the year.
c Includes costs capitalized as a result of asset exchanges.
d Includes exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are capitalized within intangible assets, and geological and geophysical exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
e Presented net of transportation costs, purchases and sales taxes.
f Includes property taxes, other government take and the fair value gain on embedded derivatives of $663 million.
The UK region includes a $783 million gain offset by corresponding charges primarily in the US, relating to the group self-insurance programme.
g Excludes the unwinding of the discount on provisions and payables amounting to $308 million which is included in finance costs in the group income statement.
179 h Midstream activities exclude inventory holding gains and losses.
i The profits of equity-accounted entities are included after interest and tax.
j Includes the gain on disposal of upstream assets associated with our sale of our 46% stake in LukArco see Note 3.
