BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Segmental reporting 1.
Significant accounting policies The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in with International Financial Reporting Standards assessing performance.
The accounting policies of the operating The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year segments are the same as the groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss ended 31 December 2009 were approved and signed by the chairman and group chief executive on 26 February 2010 having been duly disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided authorized to do so by the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited regularly to the chief operating decision maker.
For BP, this measure of company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The profit or loss is replacement cost profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by excluding from profit consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost profit for the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by group is not a recognized measure under generally accepted accounting the European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the practice GAAP.
For further information see Note 4.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences Interests in joint ventures have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties years presented.
The significant accounting policies of the group are venturers undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control exists only when the strategic financial and operating set out below.
decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous consent of the Basis of preparation venturers.
A jointly controlled entity is a joint venture that involves the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activity that the group jointly controls with its fellow venturers.
with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended 31 December The results, assets and liabilities of a jointly controlled entity 2009, or issued and early adopted.
The standards and interpretations are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method adopted in the year are described further on page 123. of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in a jointly controlled entity is carried in the balance sheet at cost, plus postThe accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all years presented.
The group balance sheet as at 1 January 2008 is acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the jointly not presented as it is not affected by the retrospective adoption of any controlled entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in new accounting policies during the year, nor any other retrospective value of the investment.
Loans advanced to jointly controlled entities are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars group income statement reflects the groups share of the results after and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except tax of the jointly controlled entity.
Financial statements of jointly controlled entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where necessary, adjustments are For further information regarding the key judgements and estimates made by management in applying the groups accounting made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used policies, refer to Critical accounting policies on pages 94 to 96, which into line with those of the group.
forms part of these financial statements.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in Basis of consolidation the jointly controlled entities.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to transferred.
The group assesses investments in jointly controlled entities 31 December each year.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate from its activities and is achieved through direct and indirect ownership that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Subsidiaries are consolidated compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for recoverable amount.
the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including date from which it no longer has joint control or significant influence over unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been the joint venture, or when the interest becomes held for sale.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Exploration provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Minority and Production segment, are conducted through joint ventures where interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in the venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the subsidiaries that is not held by the group.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these jointly controlled assets, along with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and expenses incurred in relation to the venture.
116 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 1.
Significant accounting policies continued accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment Interests in associates annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Impairment is significant influence through participation in the financial and operating determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a jointly unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the controlled entity.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of is recognized.
accounting as described above for jointly controlled entities.
The cost of goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount under UK Foreign currency translation generally accepted accounting practice.
Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment Goodwill may also arise upon investments in jointly controlled in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the entities and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over entity primarily generates and expends cash.
the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets.
Such In individual companies, transactions in foreign currencies goodwill is recorded within investments in jointly controlled entities and are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate associates, and any impairment of the investment is included within the of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets earnings from jointly controlled entities and associates.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance Non-current assets held for sale sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale liabilities of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is controlled entities and associates, including related goodwill, are regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
The results and cash flows of non-US dollar functional Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected currency subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the translated into US dollars using average rates of exchange.
adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets once the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, jointly classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
The group ceases to use controlled entities and associates are translated into US dollars are taken the equity method of accounting on the date from which an interest in to a separate component of equity and reported in the statement of a joint venture or an interest in an associate becomes held for sale.
Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to finance the groups Intangible assets non-US dollar investments are also taken to equity.
On disposal of a Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer associate, the deferred cumulative amount of exchange gains and losses software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount recognized in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated reclassified to the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried Business combinations and goodwill initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the cash paid and asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair the fair value of other assets given, equity instruments issued and value at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities trademarks, expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal acquired is recognized as goodwill.
Where the group does not acquire agreement and economic useful life, and can range from three to 100% ownership of the acquired company, the interest of minority 15 years.
Computer software costs have a useful life of three to five years.
shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual the assets and liabilities recognized.
basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each prospectively.
of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment synergies.
For this purpose, cash-generating units are set at one level whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value below a business segment.
117 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Property, plant and equipment 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
expenditure The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset is accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method into operation, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, of accounting.
if any, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any Licence and property acquisition costs other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting Exchanges of assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange date to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the exceeds the recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost exploration drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been of the acquired asset is measured at the fair value of the asset given up, determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial fair value is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the considerations and sufficient progress is being made on establishing carrying amount of the asset given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, the of the asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortized on a straight-line the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and basis over the estimated period of exploration.
Upon recognition of overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately proved reserves and internal approval for development, the relevant depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
associated with the item will flow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
Exploration and appraisal expenditure Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially costs for major maintenance programmes are expensed as incurred.
All capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and depreciated using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing payments made to contractors.
If potentially commercial quantities of wells is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration expenditure is written off as field development and future decommissioning costs are amortized over a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further appraisal total proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the amortization of activity, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs field development costs takes into account expenditures incurred to date, continue to be carried as an asset.
together with approved future development expenditure required to Costs directly associated with appraisal activity, undertaken develop reserves.
to determine the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight reservoir following the initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the line basis over its expected useful life.
The useful lives of the groups costs of appraisal wells where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially other property, plant and equipment are as follows: capitalized as an intangible asset.
All such carried costs are subject to technical, commercial and Land improvements 15 to 25 years management review at least once a year to confirm the continued intent Buildings 20 to 50 years to develop or otherwise extract value from the discovery.
When this is Refineries 20 to 30 years no longer the case, the costs are written off.
When proved reserves Petrochemicals plants 20 to 30 years of oil and natural gas are determined and development is approved by Pipelines 10 to 50 years management, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant Service stations 15 years and equipment.
Office equipment 3 to 7 years Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years Development expenditure Expenditure on the construction, installation or completion of The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are development wells, including service and unsuccessful development accounted for prospectively.
or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed and is depreciated from the commencement of production as described for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate below in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the period in which the item is derecognized.
118 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Available-for-sale financial assets 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment that are not classified as loans and receivables.
After initial recognition, The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an losses recognized within other comprehensive income.
Accumulated asset may not be recoverable, for example, low prices or margins for an changes in fair value are recorded as a separate component of equity extended period or, for oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions until the investment is derecognized or impaired.
of estimated volumes or increases in estimated future development The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference expenditure.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Individual assets are there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at techniques.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, assets are which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the carried at cost.
cash flows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Where the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging amount, the asset group is considered impaired and is written down to instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future category.
These assets are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with cash flows are adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment hedging activities.
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss Impairment of financial assets was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot or group of financial assets is impaired.
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in Loans and receivables prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount Financial assets of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in the Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables: available-for-sale income statement.
financial assets: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as Available-for-sale financial assets appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the cumulative loss receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative previously recognized in equity is transferred to the income statement.
The group determines the classification of its Any subsequent recovery in the fair value of the asset is recognized financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized within other comprehensive income.
initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly unquoted equity instrument that is carried at cost has been incurred, attributable transaction costs.
the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Inventories determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial value is determined by reference to prices existing at the balance assets includes trade and other receivables.
Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to sell and any changes in net realizable value are recognized in the income statement.
Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
119 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in 1.
Significant accounting policies continued cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial Financial liabilities instruments as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held through profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in in an effective hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage cost, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, requirements, are accounted for as financial instruments.
accruals, finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, recognized in the income statement.
as follows: For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss of a recognized asset or liability.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a category.
These liabilities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
At the inception of a hedge relationship the group formally designates Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge and documents the hedge relationship for which the group wishes to Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value, the claim hedge accounting, together with the risk management objective treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation are described and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, hedging activities.
the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows.
Hedges meeting proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Fair value hedges Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the loss.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged respectively in interest and other revenues and finance costs.
item and is also recognized in profit or loss.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed payables and finance debt.
interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement Leases within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and underlying borrowings.
benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly against income.
Cash flow hedges Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
hedging instrument is recognized within other comprehensive income, Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the For both finance and operating leases, contingent rents are hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the recognized in the income statement in the period in which they effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings are incurred.
is recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain and equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair is revoked, amounts previously recognized within other comprehensive value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognized in equity are reclassified to the income statement.
120 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Environmental expenditures and liabilities 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Environmental expenditures that relate to current or future revenues are Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation expensed or capitalized as appropriate.
Expenditures that relate to an For hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized within current or future earnings are expensed.
other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income clean-up is probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
statement when the foreign operation is sold or partially disposed of.
Generally, the timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or Embedded derivatives on closure of inactive sites.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group future expenditure.
becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at Employee benefits each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements Provisions and contingencies that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to vests.
The accounting policy for pensions and other post-retirement settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount benefits is described below.
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted to reflect risks specific to the liability.
Share-based payments If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are Equity-settled transactions determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which the passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any group.
Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares but are disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of economic of the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the resources is considered remote.
condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting Decommissioning condition is treated as a cancellation, where this is within the control of Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group the employee.
has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market estimate of that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not a new facility, such as oil and natural gas production or transportation the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance facilities, this will be on construction or installation.
An obligation for conditions are satisfied.
decommissioning may also crystallize during the period of operation of At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative a facility through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting operations.
The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity requirements.
instruments that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment of subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
an amount equivalent to the provision is also recognized.
This is The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet subsequently depreciated as part of the asset.
date is recognized in the income statement, with a corresponding entry Other than the unwinding discount on the provision, any change in equity.
in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new adjustment to the provision and the corresponding item of property, award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost plant and equipment.
Such changes include foreign exchange gains based on the original award terms continues to be recognized over the and losses arising on the retranslation of the liability into the functional original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognized over currency of the reporting entity, when it is known that the liability will the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value be settled in a foreign currency.
of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognized if this difference is negative.
When an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognized in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
121 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary 1.
Significant accounting policies continued differences: Cash-settled transactions Except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value and not tax deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in recognized as an expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of liability recognized on the balance sheet.
the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit except where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past service Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary costs are recognized immediately when the company becomes differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, committed to a change in pension plan design.
When a settlement to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the Except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognized in the income an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents profit nor taxable profit or loss.
the change in present value of scheme obligations resulting from the In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is material changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which year of long-term market returns on plan assets, adjusted for the effect the temporary differences can be utilized.
on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance during the year.
The difference between the expected sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that return on plan assets and the interest cost is recognized in the income sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred statement as other finance income or expense.
income tax asset to be utilized.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full within other Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realized or the The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity is recognized in bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are equity and not in the income statement.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Customs duties and sales taxes Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognized in Revenues, expenses and assets are recognized net of the amount of the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
customs duties or sales tax except: Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of Corporate taxes goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to tax are also included in of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item income tax expense.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profits for the Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income duty or sales tax included.
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is balance sheet.
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Own equity instruments Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial classified as treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are reporting purposes.
shown as deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
122 Financial statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Notes on financial statements In September 2007, the IASB issued a revised version of IAS 1 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Presentation of Financial Statements, which requires separate Revenue presentation of owner and non-owner changes in equity by introducing Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the the statement of comprehensive income.
The statement of recognized significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer income and expense is no longer presented.
Whenever there is a and it can be reliably measured.
restatement or reclassification, an additional balance sheet, as at the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration beginning of the earliest period presented, will be required to be received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods published.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs assets as a result of the adoption of this revised standard.
In March 2009, the IASB issued Amendments to IFRS 7 Revenues associated with the sale of oil, natural gas, natural gas Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about liquids, liquefied natural gas, petroleum and chemicals products and all Financial Instruments, which requires enhanced disclosures about fair other items are recognized when the title passes to the customer.
value measurements and liquidity risk.
There was no effect on the Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made groups reported income or net assets.
The disclosures required by the with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a standard are included in this report.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of In addition, several other standards and interpretations a third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated were adopted in the year which had no significant impact on the fee income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power have been determined to be for trading purposes, the Not yet adopted associated sales and purchases are reported net within sales and other The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective operating revenues whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
for future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas the group.
properties in which the group has an interest with joint venture partners In January 2008, the IASB issued a revised version of IFRS 3 are recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those Business Combinations.
The revised standard still requires the purchase properties the entitlement method.
Differences between the production method of accounting to be applied to business combinations but will sold and the groups share of production are not significant.
introduce some changes to the existing accounting treatment.
For Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the example, contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated of acquisition and subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument recognized in profit or loss.
Goodwill may be calculated based on the to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
parents share of net assets or it may include goodwill related to the Dividend income from investments is recognized when the minority interest.
All transaction costs are expensed.
The standard is shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
applicable to business combinations occurring in accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and BP will adopt it with effect from Research 1 January 2010.
Assets and liabilities arising from business combinations Research costs are expensed as incurred.
that occurred before the date of adoption by the group will not be restated and thus there will be no effect on the groups reported income Finance costs or net assets on adoption.
The revised standard has been adopted by Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or the EU.
production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a Also in January 2008, the IASB issued an amended version of substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
This requires to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
When control is lost, income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss recognized in profit or loss.
The amendment is effective for Use of estimates annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 and is to be applied retrospectively, with certain exceptions.
BP will adopt the amendment The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets with effect from 1 January 2010 and there will be no effect on the and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities groups reported income or net assets on adoption.
The revised standard at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and has been adopted by the EU.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial those estimates.
Instruments which deals with the classification and measurement of financial assets.
This new standard represents the first phase of the Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Adopted for 2009 Measurement.
The new standard is effective for annual periods The following new IFRS, and revised or amended IFRSs were adopted beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with transitional arrangements by the group with effect from 1 January 2009, IFRS 8 Operating depending upon the date of initial application.
BP has not yet decided the Segments was issued in November 2006 and defines operating date of initial application for the group and has not yet completed its segments as components of an entity about which separate financial evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The new standard has not yet been information is available and is evaluated regularly by the chief operating adopted by the EU.
decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not performance.
BPs operating segments did not change as a result of yet adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the adopting the new standard and there was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets of the group.
reported income or net assets.
The disclosures required by the standard are included in this report, including the measures as used by the chief operating decision maker.
