BP Annual Review 2009 Seismic shift Our business performance Each new major discovery, like Tiber in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in 2009, underlines the exceptional value we gain from our investment in advanced seismic technology.
BP-developed technologies such as the a b Total net proved reserves 2009 wide azimuth towed streamer WATS which uses million barrels of oil equivalent multiple sound sources to generate richer data are enabling us to discover reservoirs previously obscured by features such as sub-sea salt.
Advanced technologies 10,511 are also enabling us to generate far more accurate c Liquids images of new and existing reservoirs, so we can Natural gas place wells in the best locations to maximize recovery and ef ciency.
2009 was our 17th As we survey at scale, costs are critical.
Our consecutive year of a proprietary independent simultaneous sweeping ISS delivering reported reserves replacement technique pioneered in Oman in 2008 and deployed in 7,781 of more than 100%.
Libya in 2009 has made large-scale land surveys fast and affordable.
While seismic surveying often takes place in tough terrain, from deserts to deepwater, the frontiers of data processing can be equally challenging.
a Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, on a basis Our high-performance super-computing centre uses consistent with general industry practice.
b 3,000 terabytes of disk to organize and analyse survey On 31 December 2008 the SEC published a revision of Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X for the estimation of reserves.
These revised rules data, 24 hours a day.
This combination of higher-quality form the basis of the 2009 year-end estimation of proved reserves and the application of the technical aspects resulted in an immaterial increase and lower-cost surveying with powerful processing is of less than 1% to BPs total proved reserves.
enabling us to achieve a seismic shift in exploration.
c Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
a ISS is a new technique developed by BP geophysicists.
It enables us to survey up to 30 square kilometres of desert each day.
These technologies cover every stage in the exploration and production process, from seismic imaging to advanced control systems, and we are industry leaders Unconventional thinking in many of these areas.
Through enhanced oil recovery technologies, we are pushing recovery factors to new Natural gas is the cleanest burning fossil fuel.
By increasing the overall recovery factor from an important role on the pathway to a low-carbon future, our elds by 1%, we believe we can add 2 billion barrels especially in power generation.
In the US there has been of oil equivalent to our reserves.
a revolution in the natural gas business in the past few years with the introduction of new technologies to Investing in people produce unconventional gas unconventional because It is essential that we have the right people in the right the gas is in rock formations whose geology makes roles and a pipeline of highly capable and talented production particularly dif cult.
We build and renew our talent BP is an industry leader in the technical innovation pool through our global graduate programme, and in required to produce unconventional gas.
In the US 2009 recruited more than 300 graduates.
We support we have successfully developed and trialled a range career development within Exploration and Production of pioneering technologies, including new approaches through 10-year-career road maps to professional to nding and producing the gas from advanced excellence.
From 2010 our new Exploration and imaging to hydraulic fracturing and multilateral drilling.
Production learning centre in Houston, US, will provide a By applying our proven know-how and technologies comprehensive learning curriculum of technical training.
we have also been able to access signi cant new resources in Oman and Jordan, and extend the life of Looking ahead our established elds in Algeria.
Through pushing the In 2010 we aim to use the momentum generated limits of what is possible, we are helping to unlock in 2009 to continue to improve operational, cost and one of the worlds most valuable natural resources.
capital ef ciency, while ensuring we maintain our priorities of safe, reliable and ef cient operations.
We intend to continue to focus on building personnel E&P in more detail and technological capability for the future.
com whatwedo our portfolio of assets is strong and well positioned to compete and grow in a range of external conditions Our market and we will continue to grow our resource base and Read about key issues affecting our market on pages 8-9. build people and technological capability for the future.
Also in 2010, we intend to create a centralized developments organization to deliver our major projects.
By bringing our project expertise into one team, we expect to continue our drive for improved capital ef ciency by fully optimizing our project designs and improving project execution.
