Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance report and the financial statements in accordance with and integrity of the corporate and financial information applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires included on the Companys pages of the Managers the Directors to prepare financial statements for each website www.
Visitors to the website financial period.
Under the law they have elected to need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom prepare the financial statements in accordance with governing the preparation and dissemination of the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the and of the profit or loss for the period.
financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true In preparing these financial statements the Directors and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position are required to: and profit or loss of the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and select suitable accounting policies and then apply performance of the business and the position of the them consistently: Company together with a description of the principal make judgements and estimates that are reasonable risks and uncertainties it faces.
and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards Approved by the Board on 3 November 2009 and have been followed, subject to any material signed on its behalf.
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Alex Hammond-Chambers The Directors are responsible for ensuring that Chairman proper accounting records are kept which disclose 3 November 2009 with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporation Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 29
