Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting Company as at 3 November 2009 such authority to of Fidelity Special Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Street, London EC4M 5TA on 16 December 2009 at Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months 11.30am for the following purposes: after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the ORDINARY BUSINESS Company to make offers or agreements before the 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report expiry of this authority which would or might require and financial statements for the year ended relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry 31 August 2009. as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set 3.
To re-elect Mr Ben Thomson as a Director out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Section 570-573 of the 4.
To re-elect Mr Alex Hammond-Chambers Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section as a Director.
570-573 of the Act pursuant to the authority given by the said Resolution 11 as if Section 568 1 of the 5.
To re-elect Mr Douglas Kinloch Anderson Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided as a Director.
that this power shall be limited: 6.
To re-elect Ms Nicky McCabe as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a 7.
To re-elect Ms Lynn Ruddick as a Director.
class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report of all holders of securities of such class are either for the year ended 31 August 2009. proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor held by them or are otherwise allotted in of the Company to hold office until the conclusion accordance with the rights attaching to such equity of the next general meeting at which financial securities subject in either case to such exclusions statements are laid before the Company.
or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the entitlements or legal or practical problems under Auditors remuneration.
the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or SPECIAL BUSINESS otherwise : and Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to allot a limited number of the currently b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a unissued ordinary shares for cash without first offering rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to nominal amount of 1,423,472 approximately 10% their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in share capital of the Company as at 3 November issue on 3 November 2009.
The Directors will only issue 2009 : and new shares under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise and only if c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of they believe it is advantageous to the Companys not less than the net asset value per share shareholders to do so.
and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following next Annual General Meeting of the Company or resolutions which will be proposed, resolution 11 as the date 15 months after the passing of this an ordinary resolution and resolution 12 as a special resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this resolution: authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, and 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby the Directors may allot equity securities in relation generally and unconditionally authorised in to such an offer or agreement as if the authority accordance with Section 549 551 of the Companies conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to of 1,423,472 approximately 10% of the aggregate 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on nominal amount of the issued share capital of the 3 November 2009 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 57 Notice of Meeting shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased net asset value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 693 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 8,535,140: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will amend the Companys Articles of Association to reflect changes required by the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and changes to the maximum aggregate fees payable to the Directors.
Explanatory notes detailing the proposed amendments to the Articles of Association are included in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting contained in pages 59 to 61.
THAT the Articles of Association be amended and the subsequent revised Articles of Association of the Company, produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, be adopted in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 13 November 2009 Page 58 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Notes to Notice of Meeting Authorised share capital and unissued shares Notes: The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement 1.
Explanatory notes of the principal changes to the for a company to have an authorised share capital Companys Articles of Association Articles and the new Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any The Companys objects time allot because allotment authority continues to The provisions regulating the operations of the be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in Company are currently set out in the Companys respect of employee share schemes.
Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Companys memorandum contains, among other Redeemable shares things, the objects clause which sets out the scope Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company of the activities the Company is authorised to wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide scope.
in its articles the terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the determine such matters instead provided they are so constitutional significance of a companys authorised by the articles.
The new Articles contain memorandum.
The Companies Act 2006 provides such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to that a memorandum will record only the names of issue redeemable shares but if it did so the Directors subscribers and the number of shares each would need shareholders authority to issue new subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and companys memorandum, for existing companies at sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in a Under the Companies Act 1985, a company companys articles of association but the company required specific enabling provisions in its articles to can remove these provisions by special resolution.
purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other Further the Companies Act 2006 states that unless undistributable reserves as well as shareholder a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys authority to undertake the relevant action.
This abolishes the need for current Articles include these enabling provisions.
companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason Under the Companies Act 2006 a company will only the Company is proposing to remove its objects require shareholder authority to do any of these clause together with all other provisions of its things and it will no longer be necessary for articles Memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly the Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the relevant enabling provisions have been removed Companys Articles of Association as of 1 October in the new Articles.
Resolution 14 confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this Use of seals resolution will be to remove the statement currently Under the Companies Act 1985, a company in the Companys Memorandum of Association required authority in its articles to have an official regarding limited liability, the new Articles also seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act contain an express statement regarding the limited 2006, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant authorisation has been removed in the new Articles.
The new Articles Articles which duplicate statutory provisions provide an alternative option for execution of Provisions in the current Articles which replicate documents other than share certificates.
Under the provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 new Articles, when the seal is affixed to a document are in the main to be removed in the new Articles.
it may be signed by one Director in the presence of This is in line with the approach advocated by the a witness, whereas previously the requirement was Government that statutory provisions should not be for signature by either a Director and the Secretary duplicated in a companys constitution.
or two Directors or such other person or persons as the Directors may approve.
Change of name Under Companies Act 1985, a company could only Vacation of office by Directors change its name by special resolution.
Under the The current Articles specify the circumstances in Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to which a Director must vacate office.
The new Articles change its name by other means provided for by its update these provisions to treat physical illness in articles.
To take advantage of this provision, the new the same manner as mental illness.
Articles enable the Directors to pass a resolution to change the Companys name.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 59 Notes to Notice of Meeting Voting by proxies on a show of hands 2009.
Completion and return of the form of proxy The Shareholders Rights Regulations have will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently amended the Companies Act 2006 so that it now attending the meeting and voting in person if they provides that each proxy appointed by a member so wish.
has one vote on a show of hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which 4.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, case the proxy has one vote for and one vote and any power of attorney or other authority under against if the proxy has been instructed by one or which it is signed or a copy of any such authority more members to vote for the resolution and by notarially certified or in some other way approved one or more members to vote against the by the Directors, must be deposited with the resolution.
The new Articles remove provisions in Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, Registrars the current Articles dealing with proxy voting on to Fidelity Special Values PLC, PXS, 34 Beckenham the basis that these are dealt with in the Companies Road, Kent BR3 4TH not less than 48 business hours Act 2006 and contain a provision clarifying how the before the time for holding the meeting or provision of the Companies Act 2006 giving a proxy adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken a second vote on a show of hands should apply to more than 48 business hours after it is demanded, discretionary authorities.
not less than 24 business hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it Chairmans casting vote is to be used.
The new Articles remove the provision giving the Chairman a casting vote in the event of an equality 5.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior of votes as this is no longer permitted under the who tenders the vote shall be accepted to the Companies Act 2006. exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by Adjournments for lack of quorum the order in which the names stand in the Register Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended of Members.
by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must 6.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an be held at least ten clear days after the original instruction to a previously appointed proxy via meeting.
The current Articles have been changed the CREST system, the CREST message must be to reflect this requirement.
received by the issuers agent RA10 by 11.30 am on 14 December 2009.
For this purpose, the time of Directors Fees receipt will be taken to be the time as determined The Directors Fee provision in the new Articles by the timestamp applied to the message by the will provide for an aggregate fee of 200,000 for CREST Applications Host from which the issuers Directors Fees.
This amendment is required in agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time order to provide additional headroom on fees in any change of instructions to a proxy appointed the event that additional members of the Board through CREST should be communicated to the are appointed.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members and those General CREST Members who have appointed voting Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring service provider s should contact their CREST clearer language into the new Articles and in some sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance areas to conform the language of the new Articles with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further with that used in the model articles for public information on CREST procedures, limitations and companies produced by the Department for systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 2.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint 2001.
In any case your proxy form must be received a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak and vote by the Companys Registrars no later than 11.30 am instead of him.
A member may appoint more on 14 December 2009. than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to 7.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at exercise the rights attached to a different share or the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be The right to vote at the meeting will be determined a member of the Company.
by reference to the Register of Members as at 11.30 am on the 14 December 2009.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at the address on the form to arrive not later than 11.30am on 14 December Page 60 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Notes to Notice of Meeting 8 In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies 56,938,896 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Act 2006 2006 Act the right to appoint proxies Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the does not apply to persons nominated to receive Company as at 3 November 2009 was 56,938,896. information rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive information 12.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint rights under Section 146 of the 2006 Act who have one or more corporate representatives who may been sent a copy of this notice of meeting exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member are hereby informed, in accordance with Section provided that they do not do so in relation to the 149 2 of the 2006 Act, that they may have the right same shares.
under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, 13.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for they appoint understand that by attending the this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not meeting that they are expressly agreeing that they wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such are willing to receive any communications, including an agreement to give instructions to the member communications relating to the Companys as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated securities, made at the meeting.
persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of 14.
No Director has a service contract with the these arrangements.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy 15.
Information about this meeting is published on appointments, is given discretion as to how the www.
co. uk its votes the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary Registered office: proxies, when added to the interests in the Beech Gate Companys securities already held by the Chairman, Millfield Lane result in the Chairman holding such number of Lower Kingswood voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation Tadworth under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Surrey KT20 6RP Chairman will make the necessary notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3 per cent or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
10 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by 6.00 pm on 14 December 2009 or 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after 6.00 pm on 14 December 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, to the register 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in any enactment, the Companys Articles of Association or any other instrument.
As at 3 November 2009 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 61 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity Special Values PLC is a listed company you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
The Manager of the Company FIL Investments INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA You may invest in the Companys shares through the International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity Special Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent way to get more from your Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
stockbroker, share shop or bank.
The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is Investing for children The Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan application From the 6 October 2009, investors aged 50 and over on 5 April 2010 may invest up to 10,200 in ISA accounts form.
A special leaflet on investing for children through investment trusts is available from Fidelity.
The full amount may be invested in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or 5,100 3,600 prior to the 6 October 2009 Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Stamp duty of 0.5%, which is From the 6 April 2010, investors aged 49 and under on the 5 April 2010 may invest up to 10,200 in ISA currently payable on all share purchases.
However, if you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, there accounts overall regardless of age minimum 18 years old of which up to 5,100 can be held in a cash ISA may be an initial charge of up to 3% and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
Holding shares directly If you have shares in Fidelity Special Values PLC that you bought through a broker The minimum investment in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per or share shop you can transfer them into the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan.
Doing this allows you to company in a regular savings plan.
reinvest your dividends and make further investments without having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be Charges The standard initial charge for the Fidelity ISA is 3.5%.
There are no other charges for the Fidelity able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
ISA but the Company pays an annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.875% of net assets for investment BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES management and 600,000 for non-portfolio management services as set out in the Annual Report.
INFORMATION RIGHTS Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able There is an additional annual charge of 0.5% VAT when you invest through a Financial Adviser.
to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive information rights.
You should contact MOVING MONEY FROM ISAS your registered shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you can move them into the Fidelity ISA owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information and invest in Fidelity Special Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered a great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
Please note holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, or to the Company direct.
that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth INVESTING ONLINE during this time.
You can invest online in Fidelity Special Values PLC shares via www.
Fidelity Charges The standard initial charge for a transfer is 3.5%.
You will not have to pay any additional transfer ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Exchange costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current ISA Manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment immediately.
If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as soon as the market Trust Share Plan offers you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Special Values PLC.
Unlike many online share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you personal CREST minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares Page 62 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Investing in Fidelity Special Values PLC are registered on the CREST system in your own name International, Investment Trusts, Beech Gate, Millfield and everything relating to your shares dividends, annual Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will Telephone: 01732 36 11 44 be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in Fax: 01737 83 68 92 your own name.
Personal CREST membership does not www.
co. uk its apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA Managers nominee under ISA regulations.
Fidelity ONLINE SHAREHOLDER SERVICES ShareNetwork has a very competitive cost structure.
SHARE PORTAL Through the website of our Registrars, Capita Registrars, Share purchases or sales are executed online for only 9 shareholders are able to manage their shareholding per trade.
Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at online by registering for the Share Portal, a free, secure, the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee online access to your shareholding.
Facilities include: of 5 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
- Account enquiry Allows shareholders to access their personal shareholding, including share transaction CONTACT INFORMATION history, dividend payment history and to obtain an Private Investors: call free to 0800 41 41 10, up-to-date shareholding valuation.
- Amendment of standing data This allows you to change your registered postal address and add, Financial advisers: call free to 0800 41 41 81, change or delete dividend mandate instructions.
You 8am to 6pm, Monday to Friday.
can also download from this site forms such as change of address, stock transfer and dividend mandate as Existing shareholders who have a specific query well as buy and sell shares in the Company.
regarding their holding or need to provide update information, for example a change of address, To make use of any of these facilities, please log on to the should contact the appropriate administrator: Capita Registrars website at www.
com and follow the links to the Share Portal.
Holders of ordinary shares: Capita Registrars, Registrars to Fidelity Special Values Should you have any queries in respect of the above PLC, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, facilities, please do not hesitate to contact the Capita Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0GA.
Share Portal helpline on 0871 664 0391 calls cost 10p Telephone: 0871 664 0300 plus network extras, overseas 44 20 8639 3367, or calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
by e-mail at shareportal@capita.
co. uk Lines are open 8:30am - 5:30pm Monday to Friday Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Capita Share Dealing Services You can make use of a low cost share dealing service Details of individual shareholdings and other information provided by Capita Registrars to buy or sell shares.
can also be obtained from the Registrars website: Further information is available at www.
com or by telephoning 0871 664 0454 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8:30am - Fidelity Share Plan investors 5:30pm Monday to Friday.
Using Capita Share Dealing BNP Paribas Securities Services, Block C, Western House, Services you will also be able to deal in the shares of Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough, PE2 6BP.
other companies for which Capita acts as Registrar, Telephone: 0845 358 1107 calls to this number are provided you are already a shareholder in the relevant charged at 3.95p per minute from a BT landline company, and that company offers the Share Deal facility dependent on the tariff.
Other telephone service to its shareholders.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Fidelity ISA investors This is a convenient way to build up your shareholding Fidelity, using the freephone numbers given above, by using your cash dividends to buy more shares in the or by writing to: UK Customer Service, Fidelity Company.
If you prefer to receive shares for your next International, Oakhill House, 130 Tonbridge Road, dividend instead of cash please complete an application Hildenborough, Tonbridge, Kent TN11 9DZ form online at www.
co. uk its IRG Trustees on 0871 644 0381 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras from UK or 44 20 8639 Fidelity ShareNetwork 3402 from overseas.
co. uk sharenetwork ShareGift General enquiries should be made to FIL Investments You may donate your shares to charity free of charge International, the Investment Manager and Secretary, through ShareGift.
Further details are available at at the Companys registered office, FIL Investments www.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 63 FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday - Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, near St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by BNP Paribas Securities Services and shares will be held in the name of Puddle Dock Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Issued by Fidelity Special Values PLC.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than other more developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may already have been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity International and the Pyramid Logo are trademarks of FIL Limited.
Page 64 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS BOILER ROOM SCAMS Over the year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
html Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk The printing inks used for this report are made from vegetable based oils and 95% of cleaning solvents are recycled for further use.
The electricity was all generated from renewable sources and on average 98% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed using pureprint environmental print technology by a CarbonNeutral company, registered to the Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Revive 50:50, a paper containing 50% recovered fibre & 50% virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free, manufactured Cert no.
SGS-COC-0620 at a mill with the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
