214665 Finsbury WWP pp59-BC 6 15 09 1:51 PM Page 60 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 60 Glossary INVESTMENT TRUST TERMS NAV Total Return The theoretical total return on shareholders funds per share, Diluted Net Asset Value including the assumed 100 original investment at the This is a method of calculating the net asset value NAV of a beginning of the period specified, reflecting the change in company that has issued, and has outstanding, convertible NAV assuming that dividends paid to shareholders were loan stocks, warrants or options.
The calculation assumes that reinvested at NAV at the time the shares were quoted exthe holders have exercised their right to convert or subscribe, dividend.
A way of measuring investment management thus increasing the number of shares among which the assets performance of investment trusts which is not affected by are divided.
Discount or Premium OIS Overnight Indexed Swap A description of the situation when the share price is lower or Overnight indexed swap is an interest rate swap where the higher than the NAV per share.
The size of the discount or periodic floating rate of the swap is equal to the geometric premium is calculated by subtracting the share price from the average of an overnight index over every day of the payment NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of period.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
Rehypothecation The pledging of securities or other assets as collateral to secure Gearing a loan such as a debit balance in a margin account.
Assets Also known as leverage, particularly, in the USA.
The term used subject to rehypothecation are protected by relevant U. S. SEC to describe the process of borrowing money for investment Rules.
purposes in the expectation that the returns on the investments purchased using the borrowings exceed the costs Total Assets of those borrowings.
Total assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges.
Prior charges include all loans for investment NAV per share pence purposes.
Net asset value per share is shareholders funds expressed as an amount per share.
Shareholders funds are the total value of all Total Expense Ratio of the Companys assets, at current fair value, having deducted The total expense ratio is calculated by taking the Companys all prior charges.
expenses and dividing by the average net asset value of the Company over the year.
Treasury Shares Shares previously issued by a company that have been bought back from shareholders to be held by the company for potential sale or cancellation at a later date.
