214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 21 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review a special resolution to approve 14 clear days as the minimum Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share period of notice for all general meetings of the Company other Regulations the Company is permitted to buy back and hold than Annual General Meetings.
The notice period for Annual shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, General Meetings will remain 21 clear days.
The Treasury Share Regulations ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to The formal Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special pages 54 to 58 of this Annual Report.
resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in Resolutions relating to the following items of special business addition to giving the Directors power to allot unissued share will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: capital on a non pre-emptive basis pursuant to Resolution 10, Adoption of New Articles of Association Resolution 11, if passed, will give the Directors authority to sell Special Resolution 8 seeks shareholder approval that new shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
Under the Articles of Association be adopted in substitution for, and to Treasury Share Regulations, the holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital, no the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association.
dividends may be paid on any shares held in treasury and no Issue of Shares voting rights will attach to such shares.
The benefit of the ability Ordinary Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This gives authority to the Directors to allot the unissued share capital should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,000,233 equivalent to share capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the 4,000,933 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued share intention of the Board that any re-sale of treasury shares would capital on 11 June 2009, being the nearest practicable date prior only take place at a narrower discount to the net asset value per to the signing of this Report.
Such authority will expire on the share than that at which they had been bought into treasury, date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 and in any event at a discount no greater than 5% to the months from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever prevailing net asset value per share, and this is reflected in the is earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be renewed at text of Resolution 11.
It is also the intention of the Board that the next Annual General Meeting.
sales from treasury would only take place when the Board When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the believes that to do so would assist in the provision of liquidity to Companies Act 1985 the Act provides that existing the market.
The number of treasury shares which may be sold shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shares pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the Companys must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to existing share capital on 11 June 2009 reduced by any equity their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata basis pursuant to special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares Resolution 10, as described above.
This authority will also expire otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a Special Resolution 10 will, if passed, give the Directors power period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
to allot for cash equity securities up to 10% of the Companys The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions existing share capital on 11 June 2009 reduced by any 9 and 10 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights only treasury shares sold by the Company pursuant to Special in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to Resolution 11, as described below, as if Section 89 1 of the shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds would be Act does not apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share available for investment in line with the Companys investment capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively pursuant to Resolution 9.
This authority will also expire on the alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of shareholders in General Meeting.
This authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 22 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 22 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review Share Repurchases General Meetings At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 July 2008, Special Resolution 13 seeks shareholder approval for the shareholders approved the renewal of the authority permitting Company to hold General Meetings other than Annual the Company to repurchase its own shares.
General Meetings at 14 clear days notice.
The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Continuance of Company shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The In accordance with Article 155.1 of the Articles of Association principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance of the Company, the Directors are required to propose an shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net asset ordinary resolution at this and at every fifth Annual General value, as and when the Directors consider this to be Meeting of the Company thereafter, that the Company appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a continues as an investment trust for a further period of five discount to net asset value per share, should result in an years.
Ordinary Resolution No 14 seeks shareholder approval increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining for such continuation.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if The authorities being sought under Resolutions 9, 10, 11, 12 to do so would result in an increase in the net asset value per and 13 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best Meeting or, if less, a period of 15 months.
Any purchase of shares will The Directors consider that the resolutions relating to the be made within guidelines established from time to time by above items of special business are in the best interests of the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
unanimously recommend to shareholders that they vote in Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may favour of the above resolutions to be proposed at the be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher By order of the Board of the last independent trade and the highest current Frostrow Capital LLP independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is Company Secretary carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per 11 June 2009 share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Special Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue on 11 June 2009, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, amounting to 5,997,399 shares.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
