214665 Finsbury WWP pp51-pp58 6 15 09 1:33 PM Page 52 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 52 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association continued 6.
POLLS A new Article has been inserted to clarify that the Company must publish the results of a poll on its website in accordance with the 2006 Act.
PROXIES Articles 83 to 92 have been amended to ensure that the provisions in relation to multiple proxies are in line with the 2006 Act.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The Companies Act 2006 sets out Directors general duties which largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a Director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict of potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
SEALS Article 144 has been amended so as to reflect the 2006 Act provision which enables the Company to sign documents by one Director executed in the presence of a witness, rather than having to seal the document.
SERVICE OF NOTICES AND OTHER DOCUMENTS Articles 165 to 167 have been amended so as to clarify the methods of service and to reflect the rights of nominees.
