214665 Finsbury WWP pp24-pp28 6 15 09 1:26 PM Page 25 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 25 Corporate Governance continued THE BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES Geddes, the Senior Independent Director.
This took the form of The Board is responsible for efficient and effective leadership of a questionnaire followed by discussions to identify how the the Company and regularly reviews the schedule of matters effectiveness of its activities, including its committees, policies reserved for its decision.
The Board meets at least on a and processes might be improved.
The results of the quarterly basis and at other times as necessary.
The Board is evaluation process were presented to and discussed by the responsible for all aspects of the Companys affairs, including Board and, as a result, it was agreed that the current Directors the setting of parameters for and the monitoring of investment contributed effectively and that all had the skills and strategy, the review of investment performance including experience which are relevant to the leadership and direction peer group performance and investment policy.
It also has of the Company.
responsibility for all corporate strategy issues, dividend policy, share buy-back policy, gearing, share price and COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD discount premium monitoring and corporate governance During the year the Board delegated certain responsibilities and matters.
To enable them to discharge their responsibilities, functions to committees.
Copies of the full terms of reference, prior to each meeting the Directors are provided, in a timely which clearly define the responsibilities of each Committee, can manner, with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed be obtained from the Company Secretary, will be available for information on the Companys transactions, financial position inspection at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at and performance.
Representatives of the Manager and the Companys website at www.
Following a Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling the review by the Board in 2008, it was agreed that due to the size Directors to seek clarification on specific issues or to probe of the Board, the membership of the Remuneration and further on matters of concern: a full written report is also Nominations Committees should comprise the whole Board, received from the Manager and Investment Manager at each both under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Company quarterly meeting.
In light of these reports, the Board gives provided that a majority of the Directors present are direction to the Investment Manager with regard to the independent.
It was further agreed that the membership of Companys investment objectives and guidelines.
Within these the Audit Committee comprise the following independent established guidelines, the Investment Manager takes Directors: Jo Dixon Chairman, Dr David Holbrook, Professor decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
Duncan Geddes and Anthony Townsend.
Directors who are not members of the Audit Committee may attend at the invitation There is an agreed procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of the Chairman.
Details of the membership of the Committees of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if as at 31 March 2009 are shown with the Directors Biographies necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have on pages 4 and 5. access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, The table overleaf details the number of Board and Committee through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, one meeting of the Nominations Committee and one meeting of PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has carried out an evaluation process for the year ended 31 March 2009, independently managed by Professor
