214665 Finsbury WWP pp24-pp28 6 15 09 3:24 PM Page 27 27 Corporate Governance continued The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys The Board reviews the shareholder register at each Board assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that meeting.
The Company has regular contact with its financial information used within the business, or published, is institutional shareholders particularly through the Manager.
Such a system, however, is designed to manage rather The Board supports the principle that the Annual General than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys Meeting be used to communicate with private investors.
The business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not full Board attends the Annual General Meeting under the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
Details of proxy view of particularly difficult market conditions during the year, votes received in respect of each resolution are made available the Directors devoted additional time to reviewing the to shareholders at the meeting and are also published on the Companys internal controls and key risks.
The Directors Companys website at www.
Representatives continue to monitor this area closely.
from the Investment Manager attend the Annual General Meeting and give a presentation on investment matters to Unlike the boards of most other listed companies, the boards of those present.
The Company has adopted a nominee share investment trust companies obtain the majority of their evidence code which is set out on page 28. as to whether internal controls are operating effectively from third party suppliers to whom investment management, custody, The Board receives marketing and public relations reports from administration, accounting and secretarial matters have been the Manager to whom the marketing function has been delegated.
This means that an understanding of the internal delegated.
The Board reviews and considers the marketing controls for an investment trust company requires Directors to plans of the Manager on a regular basis.
consider information from a number of independent sources, The annual and interim financial reports, the interim rather than from a consolidated single source covering a typical management statements and a monthly fact sheet are available listed companys system of internal control.
The Board considers the format of the The Company does not have an internal audit function.
The annual and interim financial reports so as to ensure they are Audit Committee considers annually whether there is any need useful to all shareholders and others taking an interest in the for an internal audit function.
As most of the Companys Company.
In accordance with best practice, the annual report, functions are delegated to third parties, it has been agreed including the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is sent to that it is inappropriate for the Company to have its own shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
The Directors, through the procedures outlined below, have EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS kept the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls The Board has delegated authority to the Investment Manager under review throughout the period covered by these financial to vote the shares held by the Company through its nominee, statements and up to the date of their approval.
The Bank of New York Nominees Limited, which accords with The Manager and the Investment Manager have established current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on an internal control framework to provide reasonable assurance financial returns.
The Investment Manager may refer to the on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf Board on any matters of a contentious nature.
Their compliance monitoring programmes assess the effectiveness of and provide the Board with regular ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT reports on all aspects of internal control including financial, The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the operational and compliance control, risk management and financial statements is set out on page 23.
The report of the relationships with external service providers.
Business risks Auditors is set out on pages 31 and 32.
The Board has have been analysed and recorded in a Risk Register, which is delegated contractually to external agencies, including the reviewed at each meeting of the Audit Committee and at other times as necessary.
