214665 Finsbury WWP pp37-pp50 6 15 09 1:30 PM Page 49 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 49 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 18.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS EXPOSURE TO RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES CONTINUED 3. Credit risk The failure of the counterparty to a transaction to discharge its obligations under that transaction could result in the Company suffering a loss.
The carrying amounts of financial assets best represent the maximum credit risk at the Balance Sheet date.
The Companys listed investments are held on its behalf by The Bank of New York Mellon and Goldman Sachs acting as the Companys custodian.
Bankruptcy or insolvency of a custodian may cause the Companys rights with respect to securities held by that custodian to be delayed, however, the Board monitors the Companys risk to its custodians by reviewing continuously their internal control reports and their credit ratings.
Certain of the Companys assets are held by Goldman Sachs as collateral for the loan provided by them to the Company.
Such assets held by Goldman Sachs are available for rehypothecation.
Management of the risk The risk is not significant, and is managed as follows: by only dealing with brokers which have been approved by OrbiMed Capital LLC and banks with high credit ratings: by setting limits to the maximum exposure to any one counterparty at any time: by monitoring the assets subject to rehypothecation: and in addition, cash is also held as collateral against the Companys investment in the OTC equity swap M&A Basket.
As at the date of this report, the investment in the OTC equity swap has been reduced and as a result the amount of cash held as collateral, which is subject to the credit risk associated with Goldman Sachs, has fallen to 355,000.
See Glossary on page 60. Credit risk exposure 2009 2008 Balance Balance Sheet Sheet 000 000 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 294,928 220,587 M&A Basket OTC equity swap 10,321 10,244 Current assets: Other receivables amounts due from brokers, dividends and interest receivable 1,307 4,399 Cash at bank and on deposit 9,979 7,050 Includes cash held as collateral.
Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair value of the financial assets and financial liabilities are either carried in the Balance Sheet at their fair value investments and derivatives or the Balance Sheet amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due from brokers, dividends and interest receivable, due to brokers, accrual, cash at bank, bank overdraft and amounts due under the loan facility.
Capital management policies and procedures The Companys capital management objectives are to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern and to maximise the income and capital return to its equity shareholders through an appropriate level of gearing.
The Boards policy is to limit gearing to the lower of 70m and 20% of the Companys net assets.
The capital structure of the Company consists of the equity share capital, retained earnings and other reserves as disclosed on the Balance Sheet on page 35.
Gearing for this purpose is defined as net debt as a percentage of total net assets.
As at 31 March 2009 the gearing percentage of the Company was 11.5%.
