214665 Finsbury WWP pp37-pp50 6 15 09 1:30 PM Page 37 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 37 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year in the preparation of these financial statements, are set out below: a Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting standards UK GAAP and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies dated January 2009 the SORP.
The Companys financial statements are presented in sterling.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
b Investments held at fair value through profit or loss Listed investments have been designated by the Board as held at fair value through profit or loss and accordingly are valued at fair value, deemed to be bid market prices.
Unquoted investments are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, option pricing models, recent transactions and net assets.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as gains or losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within this caption are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments, including the difference between the purchase price of an investment and its bid price at the date of purchase.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
c Investment Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised on the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend date is quoted, dividends are recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Income from fixed interest securities is recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective interest rate.
Deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the Income Statement revenue except as follows: i expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment, categorised as fixed assets held at fair value through profit or loss are charged to capital: and ii expenses are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect the investment management and management fees have been charged to the Income Statement in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income, from the Companys portfolio.
As a result 5% of the investment management and management fees are charged to the revenue column of the Income Statement and 95% are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement.
Any performance fee accrued or paid is charged in full to the capital column of the Income Statement.
e Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Finance costs are charged to the Income Statement in line with the Boards expected long-term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income, from the Companys portfolio.
As a result 5% of the finance costs are charged to revenue and 95% are charged to capital.
Finance charges, if applicable, including interest payable and premiums on settlement or redemption, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
