214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 15 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 15 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS at this years Annual General Meeting and every five years The results attributable to shareholders for the year and the thereafter.
Each month the Board receives a monthly review, transfer to reserves are shown on page 33.
In order to maintain which monitors the Companys investment performance both investment trust status the Directors have declared an interim on an absolute basis and against the benchmark and peer dividend for the year of 5.0p per share 2008: interim dividend of group and its compliance with the investment guidelines.
Additional reports and presentations are regularly presented to investors by the Companys Manager, Investment Manager and KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Corporate Stockbroker.
At each Board meeting the Board assesses the Companys Level of discount premium Share price performance lags performance in meeting the investment objective against the NAV performance following key performance indicators: The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of Net asset value total return see page 1 discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which Share price total return see pages 1 and 30 share price performance may be enhanced, including the Stock contribution analysis see page 10 effectiveness of marketing and share buy-backs, where appropriate.
The Board has implemented a discount control Share price premium discount to net asset value per share mechanism intended to establish a maximum level of 6% see page 1 discount of share price to the diluted net asset value per share.
Total expense ratio see page 1 Shareholders should note that it remains possible for the share Benchmark and peer group performance see pages 1 and 30 price discount to net asset value per share to be greater than Issue of new shares repurchase of own shares see pages 16 6% on any one day and is due to the fact that the share price and 17 continues to be influenced by overall supply and demand for the Companys shares in the secondary market.
The average The management of the portfolio is conducted by the month end share price discount during the year was 7%, a Investment Manager and the management of the Companys level that has been broadly maintained since the year end.
The affairs, including marketing, administration and company making and timing of any share buy-backs is at the absolute secretarial matters is conducted by the Manager.
Each provider discretion of the Board.
is responsible to the Board which is ultimately responsible to the shareholders for performing against, inter alia, the above Market Price and Industry Risk KPIs within the terms of their respective agreements by Market price risk arises mainly from uncertainty about future utilising the capabilities of the experienced professionals prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential within each firm.
loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the face of price movements.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND THEIR MITIGATION Industry risk exists in all specialist industries.
Risks are inherent The Companys assets consist principally of listed equities: its in pharmaceutical companies with, for example, the potential main area of risk is therefore stockmarket-related.
The specific for drug withdrawals from the market or failures after launch key risks faced by the Company, together with the Boards and lack of expected profit growth.
mitigation approach, are as follows: The Board meets on a quarterly basis during the year and on Objective and Strategy The Company and its investment an ad hoc basis if necessary.
At each meeting they consider objective become unattractive to investors the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to minimise the The Board regularly reviews the investment mandate and the risk associated with particular countries or instruments.
The long-term investment strategy in relation to market and Investment Manager has responsibility for selecting economic conditions, and the operation of the Companys investments in accordance with the Companys investment peers, thereby monitoring whether the Company should objective and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an continue in its present form.
A continuation vote is to be held acceptable risk-reward profile.
