214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 3:23 PM Page 20 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 20 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Articles of Association were not adopted by the Company.
It is Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue therefore proposed that in order to reflect certain of the to act as Auditors to the Company and a resolution for their provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which have or will come re-appointment, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual into force, that a number of alterations be made to the Companys General Meeting.
Details of the principal changes are set out on pages 51 to 53.
Shareholders should be mindful that AUDIT INFORMATION the 2006 Act is being implemented over a period of time, with The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this the final stage taking effect in October 2009.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is NOTICE PERIOD FOR GENERAL MEETINGS no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are The proposed amendments to the Companys Articles of unaware: and that each Director has taken all steps they ought Association include a provision allowing general meetings of the to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any Company to be called on the minimum notice period provided relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors for in the Companies Act 2006.
For meetings other than Annual are aware of such information.
General Meetings this is currently a period of 14 clear days.
SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 The provisions in the Companies Act 2006 relating to meetings The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section are due to be amended with effect from 3 August 2009 as a 992 of the Companies Act 2006. result of the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Capital Structure Directive 2007 36 EC the Directive in the UK.
The Companys capital structure is summarised in the Report The government has still to finalise the details of the of the Directors on pages 16 and 17. amendments that are to be made and is not expected to Voting Rights in the Companys shares publish the final draft of the amendments until later in the Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares at the date year.
One of the amendments to be made will, in accordance of this Annual Report are given in note 9 to the Notice of with the Directive, be to increase the minimum notice period Annual General Meeting on page 57. for listed company General Meetings to 21 clear days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 clear CORPORATE GOVERNANCE days other than for Annual General Meetings, provided that A formal statement on Corporate Governance is set out on two conditions are met: pages 24 to 28. i that the Company offers facilities for shareholders to vote BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES by electronic means.
It is not yet clear what this will require INFORMATION RIGHTS and the details will be set out in the final regulations when Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the published: and registered holder of those shares to receive information rights ii that there is an annual resolution of shareholders under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to approving the reduction in the minimum period for notice direct all communications to the registered holder of their of general meetings other than Annual General Meetings shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, from 21 clear days to 14 clear days.
or to the Company directly.
Although the final form of the regulations is unlikely to be ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION known before the publication of this annual report, the Board Due to a technical irregularity in the manner in which notice of believes that it should ensure that the minimum period for the special resolution proposing the adoption of new Articles of notice of General Meetings of the Company other than Association was given at last years Annual General Meeting, the Annual General Meetings remains at 14 clear days after resolution was ineffective and therefore the proposed new August 2009.
The Board is therefore proposing Resolution 13 as
