214665 Finsbury WWP pp24-pp28 6 15 09 1:25 PM Page 24 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 24 Corporate Governance COMPLIANCE Meeting and any Directors appointed to the Board since the The Board has considered the principles and previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance election.
Any Director who has served on the Board for more AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
Paul Gaunt is a Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, Director of The Biotech Growth Trust PLC for which OrbiMed as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set also acts as Investment Manager: he has also served on the out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out Board for over nine years.
He is therefore not considered to be additional principles and recommendations on issues that are an Independent Director.
Samuel D Isaly is Managing Partner of specific relevance to Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical of OrbiMed, the Companys Investment Manager, and has also Trust PLC.
served on the Board for over nine years.
Mr Isaly is therefore not considered to be an Independent Director.
Professor The Board considers that reporting against the principles and Geddes and Anthony Townsend have both also served on the recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Board for over nine years.
However, the Board considers them Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide to be independent in character and judgement and, in better information to shareholders.
accordance with the AIC Code, does not believe that the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the criterion of length of service should necessarily preclude them AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the from being considered independent: they also have no other Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 links to the Investment Manager and have a wide range of and up to the date of this report, except with regard to the fact other interests.
The Board has considered the position of that the Chairman of the Company is Chairman of the Messrs Gaunt, Isaly, Townsend and Professor Geddes, as part of Remuneration Committee and as set out below.
the evaluation process, and believes that it would be in the Companys best interests to propose them for re-election at The Combined Code includes provision relating to: the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the role of the chief executive section A.
2 : None of the Directors has a service contract with the executive directors remuneration section B.
New Directors are appointed with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years.
Any the need for an internal audit function section C. 3.
Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
The For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them to the AIC Code, the Board considers these provisions are not when they join the Board.
These letters are available for relevant to the position of Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical inspection at the offices of the Companys Manager and will be Trust PLC, being an externally managed investment company.
available at the Annual General Meeting.
When a new Director The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of is appointed to the Board, they are provided with all relevant these provisions.
information regarding the Company and their duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will BOARD INDEPENDENCE, COMPOSITION AND also spend time with representatives of the Manager and TENURE Investment Manager in order to learn more about their The Board, chaired by Martin Smith, currently consists of seven processes and procedures.
The Board also receives regular non-executive Directors.
The Directors biographical details, set briefings from, amongst others, the Auditors and the Company out on pages 4 and 5, demonstrate a breadth of investment, Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in commercial and professional experience.
Professor Duncan laws or regulations that could affect the Company and or the Geddes has been designated as the Senior Independent Directors.
The Directors review their independence annually.
The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General
