214665 Finsbury WWP pp37-pp50 6 15 09 1:30 PM Page 38 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 38 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED f Taxation The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue using the marginal basis.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the Balance Sheet date other than those differences regarded as permanent.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided for at the average rate of tax expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reflect the time value of money.
g Foreign Currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in sterling, which is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or the revenue column of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
h Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments namely put and call options and an OTC equity swap also referred to as the M & A Basket.
The merits and rationale behind such strategies are to enhance the capital return of the portfolio, facilitate management of the portfolio volatility and improve the risk-return profile of the Company relative to its benchmark.
All derivative instruments are valued at fair value in the Balance Sheet in accordance with FRS 26: Financial instruments: measurement.
Each investment in options is reviewed on a case-by-case basis and are all deemed to be capital in nature.
As such, all gains and losses on the above strategies have been debited or credited to the capital column of the Income Statement.
All gains and losses on the OTC equity swap, during the swap term are accounted for as investment holding gains or losses on investments.
Where there has been a re-positioning of the swap, gains and losses are accounted for on a realised basis.
All such gains and losses have been debited or credited to the capital column of the Income Statement.
i Reserves Capital reserves The following are charged to the capital column of the Income Statement and transferred to this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of investments: realised and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature: expenses, together with the related taxation effect, in accordance with the above policies: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end: and unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature.
