214665 Finsbury WWP pp51-pp58 6 15 09 1:33 PM Page 51 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 51 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to the Companys Articles of Association As described in the Report of the Directors on page 20 of this Annual Report, it is proposed that a number of alterations be made to the Companys Articles of Association.
The principal changes are set out below.
As announced on 28 July 2008 the resolution proposed at the Annual General Meeting held on 23 July 2008, to adopt new Articles of Association was ineffective.
As then indicated, a resolution is being proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in substantially the same form as was proposed to be adopted last year.
Most of the changes proposed to be made compared to the current Articles of Association of the Company the Current Articles are being proposed to reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, and to clarify that certain provisions of the New Articles apply subject to any relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Additional changes have been made to bring the New Articles into line with changes being made to English company law pursuant to the EU Shareholder Rights Directive.
INTERPRETATION Definition of authenticated has been inserted to reflect the new term used under the 2006 Act.
Definitions of ordinary resolution and special resolution have been inserted to reflect the definitions within the 2006 Act.
Definitions of hard copy and hard copy form have been inserted to reflect the definitions within the 2006 Act.
Amendments have been made to the meaning of member to include reference to a person nominated under the 2006 Act please see the wording under nomination rights in relation to this.
ABOLITION OF EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS AND EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Throughout the new Articles, references to a requirement for an Extraordinary General Meeting have been replaced by General Meeting and all references to extraordinary resolution have been removed.
The terms extraordinary general meeting and extraordinary resolution have ceased to be applicable under the 2006 Act.
NOTICE OF AND PROCEEDINGS AT GENERAL MEETINGS The provisions in the new Articles dealing with the convening of General Meetings, method of notice and the length of notice required to convene General Meetings are in line with the relevant provisions of the 2006 Act and include reference to the rights of nominees please see the wording under nomination rights in relation to this.
VOTES OF MEMBERS, PROXIES AND CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES Under the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy to exercise or all of any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
The 2006 Act also provides for multiple corporate representatives to be appointed and the new Articles therefore refer to the right to appoint multiple corporate representatives.
SECURITY PROCEDURES AT GENERAL MEETINGS The new Articles have been amended so as to clarify the provisions in relation to security at General Meeting.
The Board may refuse entry to, or eject from, General Meetings persons who fail to comply with security arrangements made under the Articles.
