214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 23 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 23 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge the and the financial statements in accordance with applicable financial statements, within the annual report, have been United Kingdom law and regulation.
prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors to and the profit for the year ended 31 March 2009, and that the prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Chairmans Statement, Review of Investments and the Report of financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair the Directors include a fair review of the information required by view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the net return 4.1.
11R of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of the Company for that period.
Under this law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, United Kingdom standards and applicable law.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have: selected suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently: made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
On behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Martin Smith records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Chairman financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 11 June 2009 that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 as in force from time to time.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are published on the Companys website website address: www.
com, which is a website maintained by the Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
