Significant accounting policies continued ii Fixed asset investments As an Investment Trust, the Company measures its fixed asset investments at fair value through profit or loss and treats all transactions on the realisation and revaluation of investments held as fixed assets, as transactions on the Capital Account.
Investment purchases are recognised on the relevant trade date, inclusive of expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of the investments.
Investment sales are also recognised on the trade date, after deducting expenses incidental to the sales.
Listed investments are valued at bid value at the close of business on the relevant date on the exchange on which the investment is listed.
Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar investment instruments.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated, investments are carried at cost or, where subsequently revalued, at their previous carrying amount, less any provision for impairment.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying unlisted investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
iii Derivative Instruments Derivatives including forward exchange contracts, options and swaps are accounted for as a financial asset or liability at fair value through profit or loss and are classified as held for trading.
The Company has not taken out any derivative contracts during the year and does not normally do so.
iv Debt Instruments The Companys debt instruments include short-term bank borrowings and overdrafts, measured at fair value through profit or loss, and long-term debenture stock valued at proceeds received, net of issue costs.
No debt instruments held during the year required hierarchical classification.
Short-term loans and overdrafts are taken out at ruling market rates of interest equating to the effective interest rate.
The 11.25% debenture stock was issued in 1989 and 4.25% perpetual debenture stock was issued in 1960.
The fair market value of these debenture stocks is set out in note 17 on the accounts.
Finance charges, including interest, are accrued using the effective interest rate method.
See 2 vii below for allocation of finance charges within the Income Statement.
v Foreign currency Foreign currency assets and liabilities are expressed in Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Purchases and sales of investment securities, dividend income, interest income and expenses are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the respective dates of such transactions.
Exchange profits and losses on fixed asset investments are included within the changes in fair value in the capital account.
Exchange profits and losses on other currency balances are separately credited or charged to the capital account except where they relate to revenue items.
vi Income Income from equity shares is brought into the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, its nature indicates it should be recognised as within the capital account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on nonequity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
Dividends are accounted for in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16 Current Taxation FRS16 on the basis of income actually receivable, without adjustment for the tax credit attaching to the dividends.
Dividends from overseas companies continue to be shown gross of withholding tax.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash scrip dividends, the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend foregone is recognised in capital reserves.
Bank deposit interest is accounted for on an accruals basis.
44 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
