Information for Shareholders Net asset value and share price Income tax The Companys net asset value is released daily, on The second interim dividend of 3.65 pence per share the working day following the calculation date, to the is payable on 31 March 2010.
Individual UK resident London Stock Exchange.
The current share price of shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is shown in the the lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax investment trust section of the stockmarket page in liability.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any most leading newspapers, usually under For & Col. shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should Investors in New Zealand can obtain share prices consult their professional advisers.
from leading newspapers in that country.
Association of Investment Companies AIC Performance information Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member Information on the Companys performance is of the AIC, which publishes a monthly statistical provided in the half-yearly and final reports which information service in respect of member companies.
are sent to shareholders in August and March The publication also has details of ISA and other respectively and in the interim management statement investment plans available.
For further details, please announcements.
More up-to-date performance contact the AIC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the information, including the full list of investments in the website: www.
portfolio as at the most recent quarter end, is available on the Internet at www.
com also provides a monthly update on the Companys geographic spread and largest holdings, along with comments from the Fund Manager.
UK capital gains tax CGT An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of up to 10,100 in the tax year ended 5 April 2010 without incurring any tax liability.
CGT is currently charged at a single rate of 18%.
For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, adjusted for capital changes are as follows: Unit of Market Quotation price Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p 4.25% Perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 Shareholders in doubt as to their CGT position should consult their professional advisers.
