Directors Report and Business Review continued initiative, to help teach young children about The Boards priorities for 2010 money, had also been put in place.
F&C had The Board considers its priorities and sets its demonstrated its capability to attract new objectives for the year ahead as part of its annual investors to the Company in an increasingly appraisal process.
The overriding priority remains competitive and difficult marketplace, although consistent achievement of relative outperformance, it had been recognised that this could become adding value for shareholders through a virtuous increasingly difficult in worsening economic circle of net asset value and share price total conditions.
Investor relations and press return, discount management, dividend growth, communication had once again been well a low and competitive total expense ratio and conducted, with the Fund Manager carrying effective marketing.
The Board will continue to test out an extensive programme of regional the Managers marketing strategy to ensure that presentations to private client investment the Company is receiving value for money and is managers, which had been very well received.
continuing to be promoted effectively, in order to generate demand by attracting new investors whilst Decision to re-appoint retaining existing shareholders.
Following this review and evaluation, it was the opinion of the Board that the continuing appointment of F&C Future prospects as Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests The outlook for the Company is reported in the of shareholders as a whole.
The Board noted F&Cs Chairmans Statement on pages 5 and 6 and in the ongoing commitment to the Company and to its Fund Managers Review on pages 12 and 13.
The investment trust business in general.
The resources, Board expects that the total dividend for the year people and experience available and the quality of 2010 will be at least the same as that of 2009. advice offered on a wide range of subjects were all important factors in the decision to continue with F&C GENERAL INFORMATION as Manager.
All the services provided to the Company, Voting rights including secretarial, accounting and marketing, had At 3 March 2010 the Company had 624,750,664 been professionally and efficiently delivered.
ordinary shares in issue with a total of 624,750,664 FCAM, the parent company of F&C, is now voting rights.
As at that date the Company had fully independent, following Friends Providents received notification of the following holdings of voting distribution of its 52% holding to its shareholders rights under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency in July 2009.
This has removed much uncertainty Rules : over its future, but the future of F&C and its ability Legal & General Group plc 4.3% to build on its independent status and continue The above percentage is calculated by applying the shareholding as notified to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at to deliver benefits realised from its three-year plan 3 March 2010. announced in January 2007 and to demonstrate top quartile achievement in all areas of its business The Manager holds 42.3% of the Companys will continue to be important.
The Board will monitor share capital on behalf of non-discretionary clients F&Cs ability to attract and retain talented individual through its savings plans.
It is intended that the fund managers, both internally and externally, and nominee company holding these shares will vote to continue with improvements made in stock the shares held on behalf of planholders who have selection and overall investment performance.
not returned their voting directions in proportion to The ongoing challenge for F&C will remain that the directions of those who have.
Implementation of of maintaining the good long-term investment this arrangement is subject to a minimum threshold performance of the Company.
of 5% of the shares held in the savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 660,000 shares that any one individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% of the minimum threshold, will also apply.
26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
