appraisal process is considered by the Board to Conflicts of interest be constructive in terms of identifying areas for A company director has a statutory obligation to improving the functioning and performance of the avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a Board and the Committees and the contribution direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly of individual Directors, building on and developing may conflict, with the interests of the company a individual and collective strengths, as well as setting situational conflict.
A company director must priorities for the following year.
The Board has therefore avoid any unauthorised situational conflict, considered the option of external facilitation of the and this extends to the interests of any closely process and will give further consideration to this connected person.
The Board has in place procedures for authorising The Directors are encouraged to attend relevant situational conflicts of interests relating to the training courses and seminars.
Directors are able Companys Directors.
Directors are required to make to seek independent professional advice at the a formal request for authorisation to the Nomination Companys expense in relation to their duties.
The factors to be considered will include such advice was taken during the year under review.
whether the situational conflict could prevent the The Board has direct access to company secretarial Director from properly performing his duties: whether advice and services of the Manager which, through the situational conflict has, or could have, any impact the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring on the Company, for example, in financial or public that Board and Committee procedures are followed relations terms and whether the situational conflict and applicable regulations are complied with.
The could be regarded as fide minimis and unlikely to proceedings at all Board and other meetings are affect the judgment and or actions of the Director fully recorded through a process that allows any in question.
Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
After considering a request for authorisation, the The Board has the power to appoint or remove the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of to the Board.
The terms of authorisation will include the Management Agreement.
the Director absenting himself from meetings where the subject of the conflict is discussed and notifying Independence of Directors the Company Secretary, who keeps a register of The Board, which is composed solely of independent conflicts, as soon as the facts of the matter change.
non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the A Director interested in a particular matter must also independence of its members.
All the Directors, and abstain from voting in relation to it.
in particular Sir Michael Bunbury and Maxwell Ward Other than the formal authorisation of the who have served for twelve and nearly ten years Directors other directorships as situational respectively and are standing for annual re-election, conflicts, no authorisations have been sought by have been assessed by the Board as remaining the Directors.
The Nomination Committee reviewed independent of the Manager and of the Company the authorisation of each individual Directors itself: none has a past or current connection with directorships in January 2010.
In each case there the Manager and each remains independent in had been no material change in circumstances, and character and judgement with no relationships or the Nomination Committee concluded that these circumstances relating to the Company that are likely situational conflicts had not affected any individual in to affect that judgement.
The Board is prepared to his role as a Director of the Company.
have a minority of non-independent Directors should This review included Sir Michael Bunburys nonthis be considered appropriate at any stage.
executive chairmanship of HarbourVest Global Private There is no chief executive position within Equity Limited HVGPE.
HVGPE is a Guernsey the Company, as day-to-day management incorporated closed-end investment company listed of the Companys affairs has been delegated to on Euronext Amsterdam.
HVGPE is advised by the Manager.
HarbourVest Advisers LP, an affiliate of HarbourVest Report and Accounts 2009 33
