Corporate Governance Statement continued Partners LLC, which also manages part of the ix the Directors contract for services and terms of Companys private equity portfolio.
Sir Michael office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
Bunbury is not a partner of, nor does he receive any fees from, HarbourVest Partners LLC.
All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors have been carried out over the course of 2009 and must also comply with the statutory rules requiring in January 2010.
The Board appointed one new company directors to declare any interest in an Director, as Chairman Designate, during the year actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with upon the recommendation of the Committee.
followed the appointment of a search agency for the purpose of finding a replacement for the Chairman, Board committees who will retire immediately following the Annual The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee and General Meeting.
The Committee considered an an Audit and Management Engagement Committee extensive list of candidates put forward by the search Audit Committee as set out below.
Copies agency and interviewed a short list of individuals for of the terms of reference of the committees are the position.
A recommendation was then made to available on request and can also be found on the the Board and a separate meeting arranged between Companys website at www.
the recommended candidate and the rest of the Membership is listed on page 28 and attendance at Board.
Following acceptance by the Board as a meetings on page 32. whole, the appointment was confirmed.
The final decision with regard to appointments Nomination Committee always rests with the Board and all such The role of the Nomination Committee is to review appointments are subject to confirmation by and make recommendations to the Board with shareholders.
An induction process is in place for regard to: new appointees to the Board.
i Board structure, size and composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, skill range, Remuneration Committee diversity and age profile: As the Board has no executive Directors and no ii succession planning and tenure policy: employees, and is composed solely of noniii the criteria for future Board appointments executives, it does not have a remuneration and the methods of recruitment, selection, committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration appointment and induction: arrangements for the Directors of the Company can iv the appointment of new Directors and the be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on re-appointment of those Directors standing for pages 30 and 31 and in note 6 on the accounts.
re-election at annual general meetings: v changes in committee membership: Audit Committee vi the attendance and time commitment of the The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the are to: extent of their other directorships: i monitor the integrity of the financial statements vii the question of each Directors independence of the Company, including the statutory prior to publication of the Annual Report and audit of the annual accounts, and any formal Accounts: announcements relating to the Companys viii the authorisation of each Directors conflicts of financial performance: interests in accordance with the provisions of ii review the Companys internal financial controls the Companies Act 2006 and the policy and and the internal control and risk management procedures established by the Board in relation systems applicable to the Company: to these provisions: and iii review annually the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: 34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
