Corporate Governance Statement continued overall risk management, is exercised by the Board Investment management through regular reports provided by the Manager on The Board has contractually delegated the investment performance, performance attribution, management of the investment portfolio to the compliance with agreed investment restrictions, Manager, giving it responsibility for gearing, asset financial analyses, revenue estimates, performance allocation and sector and stock selection, together of the third party administrators of the F&C savings with the overall risk management of the Companys plans F&C plans and other management assets, within the limits set and regularly reviewed issues.
The Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance and monitored by the Board.
Department prepares a control report that provides The Board has reviewed and endorsed the details of any internal control failure.
A key risk Managers approach to environmental, social summary is also produced to help identify the risks and governance issues and voting policy which to which the Company is exposed and the controls is explained under Responsible ownership in place to mitigate them, including risks that are on page 21, and receives periodic reports on its not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
Companys principal risks are set out on pages 18 to 19, with additional information given in note 26 on Relations with shareholders the accounts.
Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In The systems of internal controls are designed to addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and business objectives and can only provide reasonable, general information are available on the Companys but not absolute, assurance against material miswebsite at www.
statement, or loss or fraud.
A regular dialogue is maintained with the The Board has carried out a risk and control Companys institutional shareholders and private assessment, including a review of the Managers client asset managers.
As in previous years, risk management infrastructure and the report on the Chairman contacted the top institutional policies and procedures in operation and tests for shareholders, as a result of which telephone the period 1 January to 31 December 2009 the discussions or email correspondence took place Report.
This has been prepared by the Manager with 10 of these shareholders owning a total of 11% for its investment trust clients to the standards of the of the share capital.
The Fund Manager also gave Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and a series of 16 presentations to portfolio managers, Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06.
Containing private client wealth managers and opinion-formers a report from independent external accountants, across the country.
In aggregate, 192 managers the Report sets out the Managers control policies attended the presentations, representing 15% of and procedures with respect to the management the share capital.
This communication programme of its clients investments.
The effectiveness of proved constructive in providing a two-way forum these controls is monitored by the Managers group for the canvassing of shareholder views, gauging audit committee, which receives regular reports opinion, and for enabling the Board to become aware from the Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance of any issues or concerns.
The programme will be Department.
Procedures are in place to capture continued in 2010. and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure At annual general meetings, all investors have the that action would be taken to remedy any significant opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the issues identified from this monitoring, which would Board and the Fund Manager.
No material failings or All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings weaknesses in respect of the Company were plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of identified in the year under review.
direction and have the right to attend, speak and vote at all meetings.
The Manager has stated that the nominee company will vote the shares held on behalf 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC of planholders, who have not returned their voting directions in proportion to the directions of those who have.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary, at the address set out on page 29 or by emailing to FCITCoSec@fandc.
The Board monitors investor complaint levels and keeps under review the Managers arrangements for Treating Customers Fairly.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited Secretary 4 March 2010 Report and Accounts 2009 37
