Operating and Financial Review compared to postal campaigns, and lower pence.
This is calculated as the earnings for requirements as well as their working capital advertising rates, and this has contributed to the year, adjusted to exclude the net effect of requirements.
As at 30 June 2009, the an overall decrease in marketing costs.
investment gains, divided by the total aggregated Pillar 1 regulatory capital During the year under review we introduced weighted average fully diluted number of requirement across the four regulated the facility for clients to opt out of receiving shares, including those held by the Employee subsidiary companies was approximately 7 paper valuations and contract notes.
Instead Benefit Trust the EBT.
As at 30 June million compared to capital resources of these documents are now available in 2009, the EBT held sufficient shares to satisfy approximately 41 million, which resulted in electronic format through our secure all outstanding share options granted under a surplus of approximately 34 million.
The financial benefit of these the Employee Share Schemes.
changes is already materialising and the The Group has no borrowings and deposits savings will continue to grow as more Dividend its liquid funds with selected financial people and businesses choose to transact institutions with high credit ratings.
In 2009, business and receive information online.
The directors are now recommending a final the Groups funds were held with no fewer ordinary dividend of 4.229 pence per than three of these institutions and up to as The capital expenditure of the business ordinary share and a special dividend of many as five.
The Board reviews its usage of remains fairly low.
Accordingly, the charge 2.807 pence per ordinary share, payable on banks on a regular basis with the primary for depreciation, amortisation and financial 30 September 2009 to all shareholders on the objective of ensuring the security of its assets costs for the year was not significant at 1.9 register at the close of business on 11 and the secondary objective of maximising its million, increasing from 1.4 million in September 2009.
When added to the interim return on them.
The increase is predominantly an dividend of 3.065 pence per share, this brings maintains cash balances on short term deposit increase in depreciation.
the total dividends in respect of the year to to ensure that it has sufficient available funds 10.101 pence per ordinary share 2008: for operations.
This policy is designed to Other administrative costs and overheads 7.809p.
ensure that the Group takes no material include items such as building and utility credit risk.
costs, dealing costs, irrecoverable VAT, An arrangement exists under which the compliance costs, insurance, professional Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has agreed to The Group is not exposed to significant services, computer maintenance and waive all dividends.
foreign exchange translation or transaction external administration charges.
increased by 16% from 8.3 million to 9.6 Cash flow and capital expenditure million, and includes 1.4 million of Operations professional fees relating to the Groups Capital expenditure remained relatively low, relocation to new offices during 2010. increasing from 1.1 million to 1.6 million, IT the majority of which related to IT Non operating income infrastructure and software.
We continue to run the vast majority of our administration and systems development inInvestment revenues increased from 3.2 The Group is highly cash generative with the house rather than outsourcing to third million to 3.3 million.
There was one only significant outgoing from underlying parties.
In particular, we maintain full control investment disposal gain of 0.7 million profits during the current year being the of the Vantage platform which is fundamental during the year relating to an earnout on the payment of a dividend.
in the administration of both Vantage and the disposal of an investment during an earlier Portfolio Management Service.
This additional income was partly offset The total cash balance of 87.4 million exception is the administration of our multiby a drop in investment revenues from 3.1 reported in the balance sheet includes 10.2 manager funds which is currently outsourced.
million in 2008 to 2.5 million in 2009, million of client settlement account balances.
We believe that having control of our own arising from interest on the Groups cash The Groups own cash balances increased from platform gives us the ability to control service balances which although were maintained at 64.5 million to 77.2 million during the year.
levels and react quickly to changing markets higher levels than the previous year generated This includes cash held within the EBT which and the needs of our clients.
Those areas of lower income due to the fall in interest rates.
has decreased from 10.9 million as at 30 June our business which are outsourced are kept 2008 to 6.8 million at 30 June 2009 following under close review to ensure they continue to Taxation the purchase of additional Hargreaves meet our standards.
Lansdown plc shares during the year.
Taxation increased from 18.5 million to We continue to make further improvements 21.0 million.
The higher charge can be Net assets, capital requirement to our services and our underlying attributed to an increase in pre-tax profits, infrastructure.
We added a number of new and treasury policy whilst the effective tax rate has reduced to facilities and services to our website including around 28.7% in line with the standard rate of Group net assets increased from 70.31 the ability to set up and amend regular taxation.
savings plans, and the provision of electronic investment reports and contract notes.
The Earnings per share EPS The Group has four subsidiary companies development of our website is a key part of which are authorised and regulated by the our strategy and we continue to see the The basic diluted EPS increased from 9.0 Financial Services Authority.
These firms benefits of higher volumes of business being pence to 11.1 pence.
Underlying diluted EPS maintain capital resources at a level which transacted online.
increased by 22%, from 9.0 pence to 11.0 satisfies both their regulatory capital 13 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
