HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Defined benefit schemes HSBC Holdings generated from financing activities.
HSBC uses the action and, where appropriate, adjust investment US dollar as its presentation currency in its strategies and contribution levels accordingly.
consolidated financial statements because the US HSBCs defined benefit pension schemes dollar and currencies linked to it form the major Audited currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds 2009 2008 its business.
HSBCs consolidated balance sheet is, US$bn US$bn therefore, affected by exchange differences Liabilities present value....... 30.6 24.0 between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar % % functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
Assets: Equity investments................. 21 20 HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange Debt securities........................ 67 68 exposures only in limited circumstances.
HSBCs Other including property..... 12 12 structural foreign exchange exposures are managed 100 100 with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that HSBCs consolidated capital ratios Lower corporate bond yields in the UK in and the capital ratios of individual banking 2009 resulted in a decrease of 160 basis points in subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of the real discount rate net of the increase in changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved expected inflation used to value the accrued by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio benefits payable under the HSBC Bank UK of structural exposures in a given currency to riskPension Scheme, the Groups largest plan.
There weighted assets denominated in that currency is was an increase in the liabilities of the scheme broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary which was partially offset by an increase in the in question.
fair values of the schemes plan assets.
As a HSBC may also transact hedges where a consequence, the deficit on the HSBC Bank UK currency in which it has structural exposures is Pension Scheme increased to US$3,822 million considered to be significantly overvalued and it is from US$392 million.
For details of the latest possible in practice to transact a hedge.
Any actuarial valuation of the HSBC Bank UK hedging is undertaken using forward foreign pension scheme, see Note 8 on the Financial exchange contracts which are accounted for under Statements.
IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings in the HSBC Holdings same currencies as the functional currencies Audited involved.
No forward foreign exchange hedges As a financial services holding company, HSBC were in place during 2009 and 2008.
Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its activities predominantly involve maintaining Defined benefit pension schemes sufficient capital resources to support the Groups Audited diverse activities: allocating these capital resources Market risk arises within HSBCs defined benefit across the Groups businesses: earning dividend pension schemes to the extent that the obligations and interest income on its investments in the of the schemes are not fully matched by assets with Groups businesses: providing dividend payments determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term payments to providers of debt capital: and interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
Pension scheme It does not take proprietary trading positions.
assets include equities and debt securities, the cash The main market risks to which HSBC flows of which change as equity prices and interest Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and rates vary.
There is a risk that market movements in foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises equity prices and interest rates could result in asset from short-term cash balances, funding positions values which, taken together with regular ongoing held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longcontributions, are insufficient over time to cover term financial assets and financial liabilities the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, including debt capital issued.
The objective of could increase with a rise in inflation and members HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy living longer.
Management, together with the is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme volatility in economic income, cash flows and beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports distributable reserves.
Market risk for HSBC prepared by independent external actuaries, take Holdings is monitored by its Structural Positions 258
