HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs Third-party sponsored SPEs Other off-balance sheet Footnotes Third-party sponsored SPEs Other off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, Financial guarantees, letters of credit and conduits and securitisations under normal banking similar undertakings arrangements on standard market terms.
These Note 39 on the Financial Statements describes exposures are quantified below.
various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such HSBCs commitments under liquidity facilities to arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms third-party SIVs, conduits and securitisations of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as Commitfor on-balance sheet credit advances and, where ments Drawn necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are US$bn US$bn included in Other provisions.
At 31 December 2009 Third-party conduits............ 1.3 0.3 Third-party securitisations... 0.7 0.1 Commitments to lend 2.0 0.4 Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 39 on the Financial Statements.
The majority by value of At 31 December 2008 undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines Third-party conduits............ 1.1 0.1 Third-party securitisations... 0.6 0.1 on personal credit cards, advised overdraft limits and other pre-approved loan products, and 1.7 0.2 mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC generally has the right to change or Other exposures to third-party SIVs, conduits and terminate any conditions of a personal customers securitisations where a liquidity facility has been overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon provided notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate At 31 December commitments to lend, in most cases HSBCs 2009 2008 position will be protected through restrictions on US$bn US$bn access to funding in the event of material adverse Derivative assets.................. 0.1 change.
Leveraged finance transactions Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBCs intention to sell the loan after origination.
Further information is provided on page 165.
194 Footnotes to Impact of Market Turmoil 1 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
2 Income and expense recorded in the income statement represents the accrual of the effective interest rate and, for 2009, also includes US$163 million in respect of impairment 2008: US$26 million.
The effect on the income statement for 2008 shows the income and expense post reclassification.
In 2008 pre-reclassification, the assets were held at fair value and a loss of US$1,371 million was recorded in the period up to reclassification.
3 Effect on the income statement during the period had the reclassification not occurred.
4 Included in the write-downs during the half year to 31 December 2008 were US$26 million relating to reclassified leveraged finance exposures, which had previously been presented under leveraged finance loans.
5 The carrying amount includes funded loans plus the net exposure to unfunded leveraged finance commitments, held within fair value through the profit or loss.
6 Directly held includes assets held by Solitaire where HSBC provides first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
7 Impairment charges allocated to capital note holders represent impairments where losses would be borne by external third-party investors in the structures.
8 Mortgage-backed securities MBSs, asset-backed securities ABSs and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
9 During 2009, for disclosure purposes, certain other residential MBSs were reclassified to commercial property mortgage-related assets.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
10 High grade assets rated AA or AAA.
11 Gains or losses on the net principal exposure footnote 17 recognised in the income statement as a result of changes in the fair value of the asset.
12 Fair value gains and losses on the net principal exposure footnote 17 recognised in other comprehensive income as a result of the changes in the fair value of available-for-sale assets.
13 Realised fair value gains and losses on the net principal exposure footnote 17 recognised in the income statement as a result of the disposal of assets or the receipt of cash flows from assets.
14 Reclassified from equity on impairment, disposal or payment.
This includes impairment losses recognised in the income statement in respect of the net principal exposure footnote 17 of available-for-sale assets.
Payments are the contractual cash flows received on the assets.
15 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
16 A credit default swap CDS gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
17 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
18 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
19 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit risk adjustment.
20 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against OTC derivative counterparty exposures to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
21 Funded exposure represents the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
22 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
23 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed.
24 The Middle East is disclosed as a separate geographical region with effect from 1 January 2009.
Previously, it formed part of Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Comparative data have been restated accordingly.
25 The reasons for the significant difference between carrying amount and fair value of loans and advances to customers in North America are discussed on page 179.
26 Assets within multi-seller conduits are classified as collateralised loans.
Under IFRSs, the conduits cannot recognise the underlying assets.
27 For details of the geographical origin of the mortgage loans held at fair value and ABSs, including those represented by MBSs and CDOs held in consolidated SIVs and securities investment conduits, see Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures on page 157.
28 The securities investment conduits include Mazarin, Barion, Malachite and Solitaire.
30 Also includes consolidated SPEs that hold mortgage loans held at fair value.
31 These assets only include those measured at fair value.
For details on the geographical origin of the mortgage loans held at fair value and ABSs, including those represented by MBSs and CDOs held in consolidated SIVs and securities investment conduits, see Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures on page 157.
The geographical origin of the loans and receivables held by the multi-seller conduits is disclosed on page 185.
32 The carrying amount of HSBCs holding of capital notes in the securities investment conduits amounted to US$2.6 million 2008: US$1.9 million with a par value of US$54 million 2008: US$52 million.
33 Total maximum exposure to consolidated SPEs as at 31 December 2008 has been restated to reflect more accurately the Groups exposure to certain securitisation vehicles in which a proportion of the maximum exposure to risk of loss is borne by third-party noteholders.
34 Two limited letters of indemnity which were in place in respect of CNAV funds at 31 December 2008 expired in April 2009.
35 HSBCs financial investments in off-balance sheet money market funds and non-money market funds have been classified as availablefor-sale securities, and measured at fair value.
HSBCs financial investments in off-balance sheet securitisations have been classified as trading assets and available-for-sale securities, and measured at fair value.
36 In the US, HSBC has established securitisation programmes where term-funded SPEs are used to securitise third-party originated mortgages, mainly sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgages.
The majority of these SPEs are not consolidated by HSBC as it is not exposed to the majority of the risk and rewards of ownership in the SPEs.
No liquidity facility has been provided by HSBC.
