HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Taxation of shares and dividends History of HSBC ordinary income the fair market value of such shares transfer or written agreement to transfer is not on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will those shares will equal such fair market value.
be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a subject to a foreign corporation being considered a registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the qualified foreign corporation which includes not ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of being classified for US federal income tax purposes transfer will be payable by the registered holder of as a passive foreign investment company, certain the ADR cancelled.
dividends qualified dividends received by an US backup withholding tax and information individual US holder before 2011 generally will be reporting subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent.
Based on the companys audited financial Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the statements and relevant market and shareholder sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, data, HSBC Holdings does not anticipate being or through certain financial intermediaries to US classified as a passive foreign investment company.
holders, are subject to information reporting and may Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares generally be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, should be treated as qualified dividends.
in general, the US holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other Taxation of capital gains person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other are not US persons generally are not subject to disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be information reporting or backup withholding tax, subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale but may be required to comply with applicable or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, certification procedures to establish that they are not profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or US persons in order to avoid the application of such agency or permanent establishment and the shares or information reporting requirements or backup ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the withholding tax to payments received within the purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch US or through certain financial intermediaries.
or agency or permanent establishment.
Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and History and development of HSBC will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs 1865 The founding member of the HSBC Group, were held for more than one year.
A long-term The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking capital gain realised by an individual holder before Corporation, is established in both Hong 2011 generally will be subject to US tax at a Kong and Shanghai.
1959 The Mercantile Bank of India Limited and Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax The British Bank of the Middle East, now ADSs HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, are If shares are transferred into a clearance service or purchased.
depository receipt ADR arrangement which will 1965 A 51 per cent interest subsequently increased include a transfer of shares to the Depository UK to 62.14 per cent is acquired in Hang Seng stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be Bank Limited.
Hang Seng Bank is the fourthpayable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax largest listed bank in Hong Kong by market is generally payable on the consideration for the capitalisation.
transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5 per cent.
1980 A 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland Banks, Inc. now HSBC USA, Inc, is acquired The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable with the remaining interest acquired in 1987. on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
1981 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation incorporates its then existing No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer Canadian operations.
HSBC Bank Canada of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that subsequently makes numerous acquisitions, the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or expanding rapidly to become the largest written agreement to transfer remain at all times foreign-owned bank in Canada.
outside the UK, and provided further that any such 482 1987 A 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank plc, 2004 HSBC acquires Marks and Spencer Retail now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UKs Financial Services Holdings Limited, which principal clearing banks, is purchased.
trades as Marks and Spencer Money M&S Money in the UK.
1991 HSBC Holdings plc is established as the parent company of the HSBC Group.
2004 HSBC acquires 19.9 per cent of Bank of Communications, and Hang Seng Bank 1992 HSBC purchases the remaining interest in acquires 15.98 per cent of Industrial Bank.
2005 HSBC increases its holding in Ping An 1993 As a consequence of the Midland acquisition, Insurance to 19.9 per cent, having made its HSBCs Head Office is transferred from initial investment in 2002.
Ping An Insurance Hong Kong to London in January.
is the second-largest life insurer and the third- 1997 HSBC assumes selected assets, liabilities and largest property and casualty insurer in subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Brasil mainland China.
S. A. now HSBC Bank Brazil, following the 2005 HSBC Finance completes the acquisition of intervention of the Central Bank of Brazil, Metris Companies Inc. making HSBC the and in Argentina completes the acquisition of fifth-largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa Grupo Roberts, now part of HSBC Bank cards in the USA.
2006 HSBC acquires Grupo Banistmo S. A.
1999 HSBC acquires Republic New York Banistmo, the leading banking group in Corporation, subsequently merged with Central America, through a tender offer to HSBC USA, Inc. and Safra Republic acquire 99.98 per cent of the outstanding Holdings S. A. shares of Banistmo.
2000 HSBC completes its acquisition of 99.99 per 2007 HSBCs three associates in mainland China, cent of the issued share capital of Crdit Industrial Bank, Ping An Insurance and Bank Commercial fide France S. A. now HSBC of Communications, issue new shares.
does not subscribe and, as a result, its 2002 HSBC acquires 99.59 per cent of Grupo interests in the associates equity decrease Financiero Bital, S. A. fide C. V. the holding from 15.98 per cent to 12.78 per cent, from company of what is now HSBC Mexico.
19.90 per cent to 16.78 per cent and from 19.90 per cent to 18.60 per cent, respectively.
2003 HSBC acquires Household International, Inc.
Subsequently, HSBC increases its holding in now HSBC Finance Corporation.
Bank of Communications from 18.60 per cent 2003 HSBC acquires Banco Lloyds TSB S. A. to 19.01 per cent.
Banco Mltiplo in Brazil and the countrys 2007 HSBC is named the successful bidder in a leading consumer finance company, Losango government auction to acquire the assets, Promotora fide Vendas Limitada.
liabilities and operations of The Chinese 2004 HSBC Bank USA, Inc. merges with HSBC Bank in Taiwan.
Bank & Trust Delaware N. A. to form HSBC 2008 HSBC completes the sale of its seven French Bank USA, N. A. regional banks.
2004 The acquisition of The Bank of Bermuda 2009 In May, HSBC completes the acquisition of Limited is completed.
88.89 per cent of PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja Tbk in Indonesia for US$608 million in cash.
