HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Maximum exposure Concentration of exposure Derivatives not impaired, or on individually assessed impaired loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Master Agreement is HSBCs preferred Concentration of exposure agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
It Audited provides the contractual framework within which Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number dealing activity across a full range of over-theof counterparties or exposures have comparable counter products is conducted, and contractually economic characteristics, or such counterparties are binds both parties to apply close-out netting across engaged in similar activities or operate in the same all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their if either party defaults or another pre-agreed collective ability to meet contractual obligations is termination event occurs.
It is common, and HSBCs uniformly affected by changes in economic, political preferred practice, for the parties to execute a Credit or other conditions.
Wrong-way risk is an aggravated Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the form of concentration risk and arises when there is a ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is strong correlation between the counterpartys passed between the parties to mitigate the marketprobability of default and the mark-to-market value contingent counterparty risk inherent in outstanding of the underlying transaction.
be seen in the following examples: Loans and advances when the counterparty is resident and or incorporated in an emerging market and seeks to It is HSBCs policy, when lending, to do so on the sell a non-domestic currency in exchange for its basis of the customers capacity to repay, rather than home currency: rely primarily on the value of security offered.
Depending on the customers standing and the type when the trade involves the purchase of an of product, facilities may be provided unsecured.
equity put option from a counterparty whose Whenever available, collateral can be an important shares are the subject of the option: mitigant of credit risk.
the purchase of credit protection from a The guidelines applied by operating companies counterparty who is closely associated with the in respect of the acceptability of specific classes reference entity of the credit default swap or of collateral or credit risk mitigation and the total return swap: and determination of valuation parameters are subject to the purchase of credit protection on an asset regular review to ensure that they are supported by type which is highly concentrated in the empirical evidence and continue to fulfil their exposure of the counterparty selling the credit intended purpose.
The principal collateral types protection.
employed by HSBC are as follows: HSBC uses a range of tools to monitor and in the personal sector, mortgages over control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities residential properties: to obtain prior approval before undertaking wrongin the commercial and industrial sector, charges way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.
over business assets such as premises, stock and The Credit Risk Management functions undertake debtors: control and monitoring processes and a regular meeting of a committee comprising senior in the commercial real estate sector, charges management from Global Markets, Credit, Market over the properties being financed: and Risk Management and Finance is responsible for in the financial sector, charges over financial reviewing and actively managing wrong-way risk, instruments such as cash, debt securities and including allocating capital.
equities in support of trading facilities.
Securities held for trading In addition, credit derivatives, including credit Unaudited default swaps and structured credit notes, and securitisation structures are used to hedge or transfer Total securities held for trading within trading assets credit risk within the Groups loan portfolio.
were US$259 billion at 31 December 2009 2008: US$254 billion.
The largest concentration of these HSBC does not disclose the fair value of assets was government and government agency collateral held as security or other credit securities, which amounted to US$135 billion, or enhancements on loans and advances past due but 52 per cent of overall trading securities 2008: 208
