First quarter GDP fell by 3.2 per cent on a Economic briefing quarter-on-quarter basis, before gains of 1.3 per cent, Growth in mainland China accelerated throughout zero and 1.1 per cent were recorded in the next three the course of the year as the governments fiscal quarters, respectively.
The unemployment rate rose stimulus package helped offset weak levels of from 4.3 per cent in December 2008 to a record high demand within key export markets.
Overall GDP of 5.7 per cent in July 2009, before declining to growth totalled 8.7 per cent in 2009, down from finish the year at 5.1 per cent.
The Bank of Japan 9.6 per cent in 2008, although on a quarterly basis introduced a range of initiatives in January 2009 the annual rate of growth rose to a very high 10.7 per with the intention of improving financing conditions cent in the final three months of the year.
Industrial across the corporate sector, while fiscal stimulus production also gathered momentum as the year packages were also implemented.
progressed, while very strong levels of bank lending Elsewhere in Asia, most economies experienced growth helped fixed asset investment expenditure to a further year of uneven growth in 2009.
Sharp maintain a rapid pace of expansion throughout 2009. economic contractions proved commonplace across Consumer spending remained robust, with retail the region during the early months of 2009 before sales rising by 17.5 per cent in the year.
The annual economic recovery began, often helped by an CPI rate was negative throughout much of 2009, aggressive loosening of both monetary and fiscal largely reflecting the earlier movements in food and policy.
Such trends were particularly evident in energy prices, before accelerating to 1.9 per cent in Singapore where, following a very weak start to December 2009.
The renminbi exchange rate was 2009, a rapid rate of expansion was recorded during little changed against the US dollar throughout the the second quarter, although GDP growth fell back course of the year.
into negative territory during the final months of the Economic conditions proved difficult in Japan year.
All commentaries on Rest of Asia-Pacific are on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
quarters of the fiscal year 2009 10 following a the same period in 2008, but a strong recovery, 5.7 per cent expansion in the same period in helped by an improvement in regional trade activity 2008 09, helped by an aggressive reduction in and a domestic stimulus package, placed fourth interest rates and a sharp increase in government quarter GDP some 4.5 per cent above the expenditure.
Although growth slowed in 2009 in comparable figure from a year earlier.
A recovery in Indonesia, the 4.5 per cent increase in GDP and the both exports and domestic demand helped the South relative stability of growth left the country as one of Korean economy to record a strong recovery from a the regions better performers.
Economic conditions very weak start to 2009, with GDP increasing proved very weak during the early months of 2009 in slightly by 0.2 per cent for the full year, following a Malaysia as first quarter GDP fell by 6.2 per cent on 2.2 per cent increase during 2008.
Increased public 108 expenditure helped the Philippines economy to middle of the year.
A substantial fiscal stimulus return to growth following a weak start to 2009, with package in Vietnam contributed to improved growth full year growth of 0.9 per cent being recorded, momentum during the first half of 2009, although down from 3.8 per cent in 2008.
Taiwans economy concerns over the deterioration in the trade position proved particularly vulnerable to the sharp fall in led to a devaluation of the currency and a tightening global trade activity during the early months of of monetary policy during the final weeks of the 2009, although the year-on-year rate of decline in year.
Building the Groups mainland China business and renminbi capabilities HSBCs operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific continued to be a key focus, as demonstrated by the region reported a pre-tax profit of US$4.2 billion opening of onshore renminbi accounts in mainland compared with US$4.7 billion in 2008, a decline China and the launch of renminbi trade settlement of 11 per cent or 8 per cent on an underlying basis.
19 new HSBC branded The decline in regional performance was primarily outlets were opened in mainland China in 2009, as attributable to the challenging economic conditions well as eight additional rural bank outlets and four which resulted in deposit spread compression, lower new Hang Seng Bank branches, consolidating fee income and credit quality deterioration.
HSBCs position as the leading foreign bank in the During 2009, HSBC continued to build its country.
HSBC also launched a new jointly-owned presence in the region through organic growth, the life insurance company in mainland China, and acquisition of Bank Ekonomi, and strategic announced the intention to establish a new cards investments.
The purchase of Bank Ekonomi nearly joint venture with Bank of Communications to doubled HSBCs presence in Indonesia to over 200 which over 11 million cards in force will be outlets in 27 cities.
HSBC became the first foreign transferred.
In insurance, HSBC expanded its bank to incorporate locally in Vietnam in January regional coverage and increased its stake in Bao Viet 2009, creating the opportunity to widen the product in January 2010, allowing it to extend its position in range and increase distribution channels to the Vietnamese market.
The integration of IL&FS Investsmart, Net interest income declined by 8 per cent to subsequently rebranded to HSBC InvestDirect, has US$3.5 billion, driven by deposit spread strengthened HSBCs network in India, allowing it compression in the low interest rate environment and to offer wealth management products through over a decline in lending balances.
This was partly offset 109 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific 2009 2008 by asset repricing, particularly in Commercial reflected in net insurance claims incurred and Banking.
movement in liabilities to policyholders.
Average lending balances fell in Global Net earned insurance premiums increased by Banking and Markets and Commercial Banking as a 91 per cent to US$365 million.
Sales growth was result of lower demand for financing as international particularly strong in Singapore following the launch trade volumes declined, especially in the first half of of new products, including a life insurance product the year.
Growth returned in the second half of the designed for high net worth individuals and a single year as the volume of trade activity improved.
Growth in insurance business resulted in higher net insurance Customer deposits grew compared with claims incurred and movement in liabilities to 2008.
Personal Financial Services continued to policyholders.
successfully attract deposits and the acquisition of Premier customers was strong with the region Deposit spread compression, lower fees and growing customer numbers by 35 per cent to over a rise in loan impairment charges reduced 580,000.
Payments and cash management was underlying profit before tax by 8 per cent.
adversely affected by the low interest rate environment.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions rose by 9 per cent compared with 2008 as Net fee income was 13 per cent lower than in credit quality deteriorated in India.
2008, driven by a decline in income from funds under management and global custody.
Fees from In Personal Financial Services, loan impairment funds under management in Singapore, Japan and charges rose by 9 per cent to US$649 million, Taiwan declined as a result of weak investor primarily due to rising delinquencies in the sentiment and lower fee margins as customers unsecured consumer lending businesses in India and moved away from equity investment products Indonesia.
In India, a challenging credit environment though, in the latter part of the year, an improvement and high delinquency rates contributed to increased in equity markets drove a recovery in investmentloan impairment charges in personal loans, consumer related fee income.
In India, tightened credit criteria finance and mortgages.
The delinquencies in India resulted in lower fees from the card business.
By began to moderate in the second half of 2009 as the contrast, trade services and cash management measures implemented by HSBC in the second half increased in a number of countries, and the Group of 2008 to mitigate loan losses, including ceasing took various steps to capture cross-border business consumer finance loan origination and tightening and continued to benefit from its international lending criteria on other unsecured lending products, business reach.
Significant cross-border referral began to take effect.
As a result, loan impairment growth was seen in Greater China where numbers charges against cards remained broadly in line with rose compared with 2008.
In Commercial Banking, significant deterioration was experienced in India in the first Net trading income declined by 16 per cent, as half of 2009.
The loan impairment charges across the the fall in interest rates reduced net interest income region improved in the second half of 2009 with from trading activities.
Foreign exchange and Rates credit quality stabilising as a result of support from trading income also declined across the region, the governments various economic stimulus reflecting relatively low market volatility, though initiatives, together with improved liquidity and Credit trading performance was strong, particularly actions taken by customers to adjust in difficult in mainland China, Japan and Singapore.
Notwithstanding the improvement towards the mainland China, the decline in Rates income resulted end of the year, HSBC continues to closely monitor from losses on bond positions following an upward portfolios for signs of weakness.
However, in South Korea, revenue increased as opportunities arose from market-making Operating expenditure was broadly in line with and client hedging activities.
Tight cost control resulted in lower administrative costs and marketing expenditure.
Net income from financial instruments Staff costs fell due to lower performance-related designated at fair value of US$110 million was costs and a decrease in staff numbers.
These were recorded compared with a net expense of broadly offset by expenditure to support the ongoing US$171 million in 2008.
This was primarily development of infrastructure in the region, attributable to equity market-related gains on unitincluding branch expansion in mainland China, linked insurance products and was largely offset by a Vietnam and Malaysia and integration and corresponding increase in liabilities to policyholders development costs related to HSBC InvestDirect and 110 the operations of The Chinese Bank Co. Ltd The Japans economy slowed sharply during the Chinese Bank in Taiwan.
course of 2008, with industrial activity declining rapidly during the final quarter of the year in In an effort to improve operational efficiencies response to much weaker external demand.
and reduce costs, an increased number of Contractions were registered in both second and transactions were completed through direct channels, third quarter GDP data, confirming a technical including internet banking, telephone services and recession, while the unemployment rate rose from self-service machines compared with 2008.
3.8 per cent in January 2008 to 4.4 per cent by the Operating expenses within the Group Service year-end.
Inflationary pressures increased during the and Software Development Centres rose by 9 per first half before subsiding during the final months of cent as the number of migrated activities and 2008, while measures of business confidence also processes increased in accordance with the Groups fell sharply.
global resourcing strategy to develop centres of Elsewhere in Asia, most economies followed an excellence.
All related costs are recharged to other uneven pattern of growth during 2008.
Policymakers Group entities and the income from these recharges focused on the rise in inflation during the first half of is reported within other operating income.
the year, but the sharp slowdown in growth during the final months of 2008 came to dominate, with a New outlets, the launch of a new jointlyseries of monetary and fiscal policy measures being owned life insurance company and a introduced across the region to stimulate activity.
planned card joint venture with Bank of The sustained rise in inflation prompted the Reserve Communications consolidated HSBCs Bank of India to tighten policy by raising both position as the leading foreign bank in interest rates and reserve requirements during the mainland China.
first half of 2008, before then cutting the cash reserve ratio by 350 basis points and the repo rate by Profit from associates and joint ventures in the 250 basis points during the final quarter of the year.
region was 17 per cent higher as a result of the nonA recession was confirmed in Singapore after GDP recurrence of Ping An Insurances impairment of its contracted for three consecutive quarters in 2008, as investment in Fortis in 2008, and an increase in new an economic slowdown initially focused on specific business sales and investment returns which were industries turned more pervasive.
After rising to a boosted by a recovery in equity markets.
Income 26-year high of 7.5 per cent in June 2008, the annual from Bank of Communications remained in line with rate of inflation slowed to 4.3 per cent by the year- 2008. end.
2008 compared with 2007 Inflation also proved the predominant concern in Vietnam during the first half of 2008 as the Economic briefing annual rate of consumer price inflation more than Growth in mainland China was steady during 2008, doubled to 28.3 per cent, prompting the State Bank although lower than in previous years.
Overall GDP of Vietnam to sanction substantial interest rate growth totalled 9 per cent in 2008, down from 13 per increases, before these measures were rapidly cent in 2007, as weakness in key export markets led reversed during the final months of the year.
Interest to a slowdown in industrial activity during the final rate increases were also forthcoming in Indonesia months of the year.
The tightening of monetary between May and October 2008, although with conditions in 2007 and early 2008 also contributed to growth levels maintaining a relatively robust level the slowdown, although interest rates and reserve during much of the year, a tentative easing cycle was requirements were both reduced significantly during only initiated during the final weeks of 2008.
Bank the final months of the year and a significant fiscal Negara Malaysia proved the exception by refraining stimulus package was also announced.
Consumer from interest rate increases during the year, even as spending continued to advance at a strong pace with consumer price inflation accelerated to 8.5 per cent retail spending increasing by 21.6 per cent over the in July 2008, before cutting the policy rate to course of 2008.
After accelerating to an eleven year 3.25 per cent in November.
The outlook for the high of 8.7 per cent in February 2008, consumer South Korean economy was affected by the open price inflation slowed to 1.2 per cent by the yearnature of the economy and the relatively high levels end, largely reflecting the movements in food and of household and corporate sector indebtedness.
The renminbi appreciated by more year GDP rose by 2.5 per cent in 2008, down from than 6 per cent against the US dollar during 2008, 5.0 per cent in 2007 and the weakest performance for although the exchange rate was little changed during ten years, while fourth quarter GDP fell by 3.4 per the second half of the year.
111 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific 2008 cent on a year-on-year basis.
Rising food prices although the earlier tightening of monetary policy proved particularly problematic for the Philippines was partially reversed at the end of 2008.
Growth during the first half of the year as inflation moved slowed sharply in Taiwan during the course of the well above the central banks targeted range, year, driven by deteriorating conditions overseas.
These deposits were deployed a pre-tax profit of US$4.7 billion which was in line in increasing lending, where spreads improved on with 2007.
HSBC continued to increase its presence the corporate lending and credit card portfolios and in key markets, augmenting organic growth with the mortgage spreads widened following a re-pricing in integration of the operations of The Chinese Bank in the second half of the year.
Taiwan and the purchase of IL&FS Investsmart Ltd in India, which was completed in September.
On an In mainland China, net interest income also rose underlying basis, excluding the dilution gains on due to deposit growth, as investors increasingly Chinese associates of US$1.1 billion recorded in preferred deposits over market-led investments as 2007 and the acquisitions noted above, profit before market sentiment deteriorated.
This facilitated an tax increased by 25 per cent, with notable growth in increase in personal lending balances following South Korea, mainland China, India, and an branch network expansion and successful re-pricing increased contribution from associates in the region.
initiatives on corporate and commercial loans.
Branches were added in mainland China, Indonesia, There was strong growth in net interest income Japan, Malaysia and Bangladesh.
from Balance Sheet Management within Global Net interest income increased by 27 per cent, Banking and Markets, due to lower funding costs with growth across most major countries and all and steeper yield curves, notably in Singapore, customer groups.
Deposit acquisition and related mainland China, India and Japan.
asset deployment across the region drove net interest Net fee income rose by 4 per cent, driven by a income, though this volume growth was partly offset growth in fees from personal credit cards and trade by deposit spread compression in the second half of and supply chain services.
Credit card fees rose, the year due to declining interest rates, compounded particularly in India, driven by increases in by strong competition to acquire deposits.
interchange fees from higher cardholder spending In India, net interest income increased by 44 per and late payment and over-limit fees from higher cent as deposit balances in Personal Financial delinquencies.
There were lower fees from Services and Commercial Banking rose due to investment products and broking across the region, 112 driven by a decline in equity markets and weakened response to which HSBC took action to restrict investor sentiment.
However, HSBC continued to extend credit to selected cards Fee income from credit facilities rose, notably in customers, which resulted in volume growth and India, Australia and Singapore, reflecting increases also contributed to higher loan impairment charges.
in the number of customers.
In Australia, higher delinquencies arose from Net trading income rose by 54 per cent, the maturing of the cards portfolio and, to a lesser predominantly due to strong Rates and foreign extent, volume growth, in addition to a credit risk exchange trading across the region as volatile market provision related to an exposure to an Icelandic conditions continued, encouraging increased Bank.
Partly offsetting this, loan impairment charges corporate hedging activity.
declined by 41 per cent in Taiwan due to an Growth was particularly strong in South Korea, improvement in asset quality.
Similarly, in Thailand, mainland China and Australia due to strategic loan impairment charges were 69 per cent lower due positioning of HSBCs balance sheet to benefit from to the non-recurrence of charges attributable to the the interest rate cuts and foreign exchange volatility down-grading of certain corporate customers.
in 2008, and increased activity in these local Operating expenses increased by 15 per cent to markets.
In India, foreign exchange and, to a lesser US$4.7 billion.
Significant investment in the region extent, Rates revenues rose, driven mainly by continued, notably in mainland China where 29 new increased customer activity and high levels of outlets were opened and staff numbers increased.
Related premises and equipment costs rose A net expense from financial instruments accordingly.
Expansion was also pursued in designated at fair value of US$171 million was Indonesia with the addition of new branches, and in recorded compared with income of US$121 million Japan with the rollout of seven HSBC Premier in 2007.
Declines in equity markets affected unitcentres.
In India, the rise in operating expenses was linked insurance products, particularly in Singapore.
driven mainly by investment in IT, premises costs This was largely offset by a corresponding decrease and an increase in collection activities as default in liabilities to policyholders reflected in net rates rose.
Business growth contributed to higher insurance claims incurred and movement in operating expenses in Australia.
Litigation costs in liabilities to policyholders.
Net earned insurance premiums decreased by Growth in operating expenses at the Group 17 per cent to US$197 million, mainly in Singapore Service and Software Development Centres was and Malaysia due to lower sales of single premium driven by increased volumes of activity as HSBC unit-linked products.
This was partly offset by an continued to implement a global resourcing strategy increase in the sale of general insurance products.
to minimise costs throughout the Group.
All related costs are recharged to other Group entities and the Loan impairment charges rose sharply, income is reported within Other operating income.
increasing by 56 per cent to US$852 million, following a marked deterioration in credit quality Profit from associates and joint ventures in the across the region in the final quarter of the year.
region increased by 9 per cent, notwithstanding a These charges rose most significantly in India and, significant impairment recorded in Ping An to a lesser extent, in Australia.
Insurance in respect of its stake in Fortis Bank.
Growth was strong across HSBCs other principal In India, the rise was attributable to increased associates, the Bank of Communications and delinquency across personal lending portfolios, in Industrial Bank.
113 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific Profit before tax by customer groups Analysis by customer group and global business Profit before tax 2009 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 50 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total 27 Rest of Asia-Pacific US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income..................... 1,493 807 1,174 115 91 141 3,539 Net fee income expense........... 554 331 636 55 19 1,557 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 80 134 1,013 55 18 1,264 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 1 202 141 342 42 Net trading income expense... 79 134 1,215 55 18 141 1,606 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.............................. 1 1 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 110 1 2 2 111 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 110 1 2 1 110 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 5 2 7 19 19 Dividend income......................... 1 1 2 Net earned insurance premiums.
114 2008 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 50 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total 27 Rest of Asia-Pacific US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income..................... 1,708 934 1,524 103 139 471 3,937 Net fee income............................ 592 356 831 71 17 1,867 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 65 122 1,233 77 54 1,443 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 5 123 10 471 599 42 Net trading income expense... 60 122 1,356 77 44 471 2,042 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.............................. 1 1 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 172 4 4 172 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 172 4 5 171 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 15 3 6 24 Dividend income......................... 2 2 Net earned insurance premiums.
115 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Rest of Asia-Pacific Profit before tax by customer group Middle East Analysis by customer group and global business continued Profit before tax 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 50 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total 27 Rest of Asia-Pacific US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income..................... 1,507 750 1,035 59 135 437 3,049 Net fee income............................ 594 265 820 82 14 1,775 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 42 86 817 71 70 946 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 2 21 14 437 400 42 Net trading income expense... 40 86 796 71 84 437 1,346 Changes in fair value of longterm debt issued and related derivatives.............................. 1 1 Net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value........... 73 4 3 1 37 110 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 73 4 3 1 38 111 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 3 4 28 1 36 Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates............. 1,081 1,081 Dividend income......................... 6 6 Net earned insurance premiums.
