HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 ii Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses.
k Sale and repurchase agreements including stock lending and borrowing When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to sell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and the consideration paid is recorded in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised over the life of the agreement.
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities or cash advanced or received.
The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally reflected on the balance sheet.
Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability respectively.
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet.
If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are included in Net trading income.
l Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value.
Fair values of exchangetraded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices.
Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded conversion option.
Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract: the terms of the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract: and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged.
All gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
Hedge accounting is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge provided certain criteria are met.
Hedge accounting At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge.
HSBC also requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Interest on designated qualifying hedges is included in Net interest income.
376 Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, it is released to the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income within the Cash flow hedges fair value gains losses.
Any gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income: a gain or loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each hedge must be expected to be highly effective prospective effectiveness, and demonstrate actual effectiveness retrospective effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed.
The method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated.
For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each other in the range of 80 per cent to 125 per cent.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
These gains and losses are reported in Net trading income, except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value other than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group, in which case gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
The interest on derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by the Group which are designated at fair value is 377
