HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Gains less losses from financial investments Net earned insurance premiums OII 2008 in Asia, Europe and North America, reflecting the available-for-sale portfolio as certain investments the improvement in the economic situation and were marked down to reflect the prevailing market equity markets.
Of the investments on which conditions.
material impairments were recognised in 2008, a The redemption of Visa shares following its significant amount reversed during 2009 due to share initial public offering IPO resulted in significant price appreciation, notably in India and, to a lesser gains, and there were further gains from the sale of extent, Vietnam: however, under IFRSs all MasterCard shares.
These were more than offset by subsequent increases in the fair value are treated as a losses in Principal Investments and the nonrevaluation and are recognised in other recurrence of various significant gains in 2007, comprehensive income rather than the income mostly in respect of Euronext, the European stock statement.
exchange, and a credit bureau in Brazil.
2008 compared with 2007 Declining equity markets caused impairments to be recognised against a number of strategic Reported gains less losses of US$197 million from investments in Asia, held in the available-for-sale financial investments during 2008 were 90 per cent portfolio and on private equity investments, mainly lower than in 2007, 93 per cent lower on an in Europe.
The market turmoil in the US also led to underlying basis.
A reduction in net gains from impairments against investments in various US disposals was compounded by significant financial institutions.
Adjusting for this, net compared with 2008.
On an underlying basis, net earned insurance premiums were ahead of 2008 earned insurance premiums increased by 3 per cent.
despite a significant reduction in the distribution Growth was recorded in Asia, Brazil and France, but network following the disposal of the French this was largely offset by significant declines in the regional banks in July 2008.
In the UK, demand for the Guaranteed Income Net earned insurance premiums continued Bond savings product declined as HSBC offered to grow in Asia, mainly from the launch of new more favourable rates on an alternative deposit products including a life insurance product designed product.
As the deposit product was a savings bond for high net worth individuals and a guaranteed rather than an insurance contract, its income was savings product.
In Hong Kong, HSBC retained its recorded under net interest income, while the position as the leading bancassurer and net earned associated fall in sales of insurance products led to insurance premiums increased as a result of higher a US$1.1 billion reduction in insurance premium sales of unit-linked and whole life products.
income with an equivalent decrease in Net insurance claims incurred and movement in Growth in insurance premiums in Asia, liabilities to policyholders, as described below.
Brazil and France was largely offset by declines in the UK and US.
The reduction in origination volumes in the consumer finance business in North America also In Latin America, premium growth was driven led to correspondingly lower sales of credit by higher sales of pension and life products in protection insurance as the consumer finance Brazil, partly due to a number of customers business was closed.
switching their personal pension annuities to HSBC.
