HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value US$3.6 billion and US$1.9 billion to information to validate the financial instruments fair communications and infrastructure 2008: value, with greater weight given to information that US$1.7 billion.
During the year, 99 per cent is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The of the total fair value movement not recognised was factors that are considered in this regard are, inter against exposures in these two sectors 2008: 99 per alia: cent.
Subsequent to the end of the year, as part of the extent to which prices may be expected to portfolio management, US$0.6 billion of the data represent genuine traded or tradeable prices: processing exposure was sold.
the degree of similarity between financial Fair values of financial instruments instruments: Audited the degree of consistency between different The classification of financial instruments is sources: determined in accordance with the accounting the process followed by the pricing provider to policies set out in Note 2 on the Financial derive the data: Statements.
The use of assumptions and estimation in valuing financial instruments is described on the elapsed time between the date to which the page 163.
The following is a description of HSBCs market data relates and the balance sheet date: methods of determining fair value and its related and control framework, and a quantification of its the manner in which the data was sourced.
exposure to financial instruments measured at fair value.
Models provide a logical framework for the capture and processing of necessary valuation inputs.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset For fair values determined using a valuation model, could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between the control framework may include, as applicable, knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length independent development or validation of i the transaction.
logic within valuation models: ii the inputs to those Financial instruments measured at fair value models: iii any adjustments required outside the on an ongoing basis include trading assets and valuation models: and iv where possible, model liabilities, instruments designated at fair value, outputs.
Valuation models are subject to a process of derivatives and financial investments classified due diligence and calibration before becoming as available for sale including treasury and other operational and are calibrated against external eligible bills, debt securities, and equity securities.
market data on an ongoing basis.
The results of the independent validation Fair values of financial instruments carried process are reported to, and considered by, Valuation at fair value Committees.
Valuation Committees are composed of Control framework valuation experts from several independent support functions Product Control, Market Risk Fair values are subject to a control framework Management, Quantitative Risk and Valuation designed to ensure that they are either determined or Group and Finance in addition to senior validated by a function independent of the risk-taker.
The members of each Valuation To this end, ultimate responsibility for the Committee consider the appropriateness and determination of fair values lies with Finance, which adequacy of the fair value adjustments and the reports functionally to the Chief Financial Officer, effectiveness of valuation models.
If necessary, they Executive Director, Risk and Regulation.
Finance may require changes to model calibration or establishes the accounting policies and procedures calibration procedures.
The Valuation Committees governing valuation and is responsible for ensuring are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review that they comply with all relevant accounting Group, which consists of Heads of Global Banking standards.
and Markets Finance and Risk Functions.
All For all financial instruments where fair values subjective valuation items with a potential impact in are determined by reference to externally quoted excess of US$5 million are reported to the Valuation prices or observable pricing inputs to models, Committee Review Group.
independent price determination or validation is utilised.
In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible.
In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market 166
