All commentaries on Middle East are on an underlying basis unless stated otherwise.
2009 compared with 2008 adversely affected sentiment and caused some oilexporters to reassess spending plans as their revenue Economic briefing streams weakened.
Although the majority of economies in the Middle In addition, the liquidity environment tightened East were spared the most severe effects of the considerably during the course of the year.
This led global recession, 2009 marked a dramatic downturn to a rapid slowdown in credit creation, weighing as growth slowed markedly, bringing a sharp end to heavily on private consumption and investment a five-year run of strong expansion.
spending and contributing to marked downward In part, the region proved vulnerable to pressure on asset prices.
Access to international weakened external demand, particularly economies funding was also impaired as global capital flows such as Egypt and the UAE that are significant slowed, further impeding local investment spending.
service and merchandise exporters to the West and The recovery of the region may lag that of some are exposed to global trade patterns.
A sharp drop other emerging markets.
However, in contrast to in hydrocarbon prices in late 2008 and early 2009 118 1998 the last occasion on which growth trends economic environment without experiencing sharply reversed policymakers in Saudi Arabia and pressure on external balances or a downturn in the elsewhere were able to draw on reserves built up dollar value of local currencies.
Inflation also fell during years of high oil earnings to maintain across the region as growth slowed and import prices spending, rather than boosting borrowing.
With the fell, and policymakers were able to track the recovery in oil prices from mid-2009 onward, the exceptionally low level of interest rates in the US.
reserves allowed the region to weather the difficult Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2009 compared with 2008 2008 2008 2009 2008 acquisitions at 2009 acquisitions Under- 2009 ReUnderas and Currency exchange and lying as ported lying 10 11 12 10 13 13 reported disposals translation rates disposals change reported change change 27 Middle East US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Net interest income.......... 1,556 7 1,549 64 1,485 5 4 Net fee income................. 691 4 687 62 625 10 9 15 Other income................. 421 7 414 70 484 15 17 16 Net operating income.. 2,668 18 2,650 56 2,594 3 2 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 279 1 280 1,054 1,334 378 376 Net operating income.... 2,389 19 2,370 1,110 1,260 47 47 Operating expenses.......... 959 11 948 53 1,001 4 6 Operating profit............. 1,430 8 1,422 1,163 259 82 82 Income from associates... 316 1 317 121 196 38 38 Profit before tax............. 1,746 7 1,739 1,284 455 74 74 For footnotes, see page 149. Review of business performance Net interest income declined by 4 per cent, driven by lower deposit and lending balances and HSBCs operations in the Middle East reported a deposit spread compression across all customer pre-tax profit of US$0.5 billion compared with groups.
US$1.7 billion in 2008, a decrease of 74 per cent on both reported and underlying bases.
The decline in Commercial Banking lending balances fell as profitability was largely due to the impact of the trade levels declined.
In Personal Financial Services, global recession, which brought a sharp decline in average mortgages and credit card balances were oil prices and a considerable reduction in capital higher than in 2008, reflecting the deferred inflows in the second half of 2008, triggering a drawdown of facilities approved in 2008.
Unsecured regional economic downturn which continued personal lending balances declined during the year throughout 2009.
The UAE was significantly due to tighter origination criteria and a move towards affected by declines in construction and global trade, relationship lending.
The shift in the composition of losses incurred by regional investors, and tight personal lending portfolios, from unsecured to liquidity and lower real-estate prices, which together secured lending, resulted in narrower asset spreads.
resulted in higher loan impairment charges as Customer deposit balances fell, mainly due to an the crisis affected both personal and corporate outflow of funds from corporate customers reflecting customers.
However, despite the severe deterioration tighter liquidity in the local markets.
In Personal in credit conditions, the region remained profitable Financial Services, liability balances rose due to the due to Global Banking and Markets.
In Personal combination of attractive rates offered and ongoing Financial Services, HSBC continued to focus on marketing campaigns, although the higher rates Premier and affluent mass market customers, resulted in narrower deposit spreads.
growing its Premier customer base by 32 per cent compared with 2008.
HSBC further expanded its Net fee income fell by 9 per cent, due to a presence in Egypt, opening 15 new branches in decline in custody, insurance and unit trust income 2009. as investor sentiment weakened in the difficult 119 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Middle East 2009 2008 market conditions, and trade finance fees declined as unemployment.
This resulted in increased regional trade deteriorated.
Cards income also fell delinquencies, notably in credit cards and personal due to lower drawdowns and originations as loans, which were exacerbated by large numbers of underwriting criteria were tightened.
expatriate workers departing the region leaving debts unpaid.
Management has taken steps to mitigate Loan impairment charges and other credit losses, including reducing credit lines, tightening provisions increased by US$1.1 billion as origination criteria and strengthening collections real estate and construction were hard hit in activities.
Commercial and corporate banking loan impairment charges rose sharply, primarily due to Trading income was broadly in line with 2008 a few individually significant impairment charges as weaker foreign exchange and Rates trading recorded on exposures to large corporates.
revenue were offset by higher revenue from Credit trading on favourable positioning of the trading Operating expenditure increased by 6 per portfolio in expectation of spreads narrowing from cent.
Staff costs remained broadly flat as higher their peak in the third quarter of 2008. expenditure in Global Banking and Markets was offset by lower staff costs in Personal Financial Other operating income rose by US$62 million, Services and Commercial Banking as headcount driven by gains arising from the buy-back and declined.
Non-staff costs rose as new headquarter extinguishment of HSBCs own debt issued locally.
buildings in the UAE and Qatar caused higher rental Loan impairment charges and other credit risk costs, and IT investment increased from systems provisions rose significantly from US$0.3 billion to upgrades and rollouts.
US$1.3 billion, reflecting substantially higher Profit from associates and joint ventures in the charges in the UAE where the deterioration in credit region fell by 38 per cent as the Groups share of quality was particularly significant.
The UAEs real income from the Saudi British Bank declined as a estate and construction industries were adversely result of higher loan impairment charges.
HSBCs affected by the global economic crisis, resulting in share of income from HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd several large infrastructure projects being postponed declined as a result of a slowdown in IPOs and a or cancelled, and triggering higher levels of decline in assets under management.
120 2008 compared with 2007 from a decline in local base rates following US dollar interest rate cuts, which resulted in a lower Economic briefing cost of funds.
The economies of the Middle East performed Growth in personal customer deposits was strongly for much of 2008, although inflationary driven by a significant increase in the number of concerns were a feature for much of the year, driven e-saver and Premier accounts.
Deposit spreads by the surge in oil prices to record levels and private narrowed due to declining market interest rates in the and public investment expenditure.
revenues continued to boost fiscal and current account surpluses throughout the region during There was strong growth in net interest income 2008, although the impact of the decline in oil prices from Balance Sheet Management, due to early during the final months of the year, together with the positioning in anticipation of lower market interest OPEC-mandated production cuts, are expected to rates.
Net fee income rose by 46 per cent driven by higher fees in Global Banking and Markets as Review of business performance increased interest from foreign investors and asset HSBCs operations in the Middle East performed growth drove securities services income.
Credit card strongly, reporting a pre-tax profit of US$1.7 billion, fees rose, driven by increases in interchange fees an increase of 33 per cent on an underlying basis.
from higher cardholder spending, and late payment Record oil prices which peaked in July 2008 boosted and over-limit fees from higher delinquencies.
Fee domestic spending on infrastructure and real estate income from credit facilities rose reflecting increases in the first half of 2008.
The resulting increase in in the numbers of customers.
Trade and supply chain demand for credit was reflected by growth in both services contributed strongly to fee income primarily volumes and the average loan size.
HSBC also in the construction and infrastructure industries.
successfully launched new banking products across Trading income rose by 34 per cent resulting the region, in addition to growing the Premier from market uncertainty regarding possible currency customer base.
Business volume growth and wider revaluations which drove volatility and together with asset spreads drove higher net interest income, and robust client demand, led to higher foreign exchange fee income rose as volumes of cards and trade income.
Loan impairment charges rose significantly, As global financial conditions began to worsen albeit from a low base, to US$279 million as a result in the second half of 2008, liquidity in the region of increased delinquency rates on higher personal declined, which combined with deteriorating unsecured lending in the UAE.
A deterioration in consumer confidence, adversely impacted real-estate credit conditions also led to increased charges in prices.
This triggered an increase in  Banking.
related unemployment as large developments were cancelled or suspended resulting in an increase in Operating expenses were 23 per cent higher, loan impairment charges.
reflecting substantially increased levels of operating volumes, related headcount growth and wage Net interest income increased by 42 per cent inflation driven by competitive labour market driven by balance sheet growth in the region.
Non-staff costs rose as a result of higher In Personal Financial Services, the strong premises costs, and increased marketing expenditure lending growth was driven by increased balances in in line with new product launches.
unsecured lending as both cards in circulation and Profit from associates and joint ventures rose by cardholder spending drove higher card balances.
25 per cent as the Groups share of income from the Similarly new personal loan products were launched.
Saudi British Bank increased as a result of higher fee Mortgage balances rose in the UAE, driven by income from cards, account management and tradeincreased customer demand.
The increase in related businesses.
These were partly offset by Commercial Banking lending balances reflected a higher operating expenditure resulting from branch strong rise in corporate lending aligned to trade and expansion, increased investment in technology and infrastructure investments.
Asset spreads benefited higher performance-related pay.
