within the Group, continued to enjoy committed HSBC Holdings Audited financing facilities, albeit at a lower level, and access to CP markets at competitive interest rates.
By HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are the reducing the size of its balance sheet, issuing costreceipt of dividends from subsidiaries, interest on effective retail debt, receiving capital infusions from and repayment of, intra-group loans, and interest the HSBC Group and utilising alternative sources of earned on its own liquid funds.
HSBC Holdings also funding, including from other members of the HSBC received cash from its rights issue in April 2009 and, Group, HSBC Finance eliminated the need to issue on an ongoing basis, raises ancillary funds in the institutional term debt in 2008 and 2009.
Funding debt capital markets through subordinated and senior plans are in place which would enable HSBC debt issuance.
Primary uses of cash are investments Finance to deal with a recurrence of stress in the in subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and credit markets.
As part of liquidity management, dividend payments to shareholders.
asset portfolios totalling US$15.3 billion were HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent transferred from HSBC Finance to HSBC Bank USA liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other creditin January 2009, resulting in US$8.0 billion of net related commitments and guarantees and similar funding benefit to HSBC Finance.
Such commitments and guarantees The scheme set up by the US Federal Reserve in are only issued after due consideration of HSBC 2008 to provide support to US issuers in the CP Holdings ability to finance the commitments and market was extended to 1 February 2010.
Under this guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
scheme, HSBC Finance was eligible to issue a HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash maximum of US$12.0 billion.
At 31 December 2009, flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of HSBC Finance did not have any outstanding CP cash held at the holding company level.
The ability under this programme 31 December 2008: of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance US$520 million.
monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other The effect of the market turmoil on liquidity and things, their respective regulatory capital funding elsewhere in HSBC was largely restricted to requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and the Groups activities that historically depended operating performance.
The wide range of HSBCs upon the asset-backed CP markets for funding, activities means that HSBC Holdings is not specifically SIVs and conduits, and certain money dependent on a single source of profits to fund its market funds.
This is discussed in detail on dividend payments to shareholders.
HSBC Holdings continued to have full access to debt capital markets at market rates and issued US$5.3 billion of capital instruments and senior debt 2008: US$8.8 billion.
