HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Overview of exposure AFS ABSs impairment Business model Risk management Accounting policies Nature and extent of exposures Services downgraded the ratings on substantially all future impairment charges.
The results of the US Alt-A residential MBSs issued during 2006 and analysis indicate that further impairment charges 2007, including those held by HSBC.
of some US$1.1 billion and expected cash losses of some US$450 million could arise over the next two As discussed on page 178, when assessing to three years.
These are at the upper end of the available-for-sale ABSs for objective evidence of guidance previously given.
impairment at each balance sheet date, HSBC considers all available evidence including the This analysis makes assumptions in respect of performance of the underlying collateral.
A the future behaviour of loss severities, default rates downgrade of a securitys credit rating is not, of and prepayment rates.
Movements in the parameters itself, evidence of impairment.
Consequently, are not independent of each other.
For example, Moodys actions alone have no direct impact on the increased default rates and increased loss severities, measurement of impairment losses.
The impairment which would imply greater impairments, generally losses recognised on these securities at 31 December arise under economic conditions that give rise to 2009 are set out on page 155. reduced levels of prepayment, reducing the potential for impairment charges.
Conversely, economic Available-for-sale ABS impairment and cash conditions which increase the rates of prepayment loss projections are generally associated with reduced default rates Unaudited and decreased loss severities.
The assumptions used by management in the roll-forward analysis have HSBCs regular impairment assessment employs been set in the context of further increases in loss an industry standard model with inputs which are severities and elevated levels of default rates partly corroborated using observable market data where offset by stable prepayment rates in the short to available.
At 31 December 2008, management medium term.
performed a stress test on the available-for-sale ABS positions, based on the fair value of the positions at At 31 December 2009, the incurred and that date.
The main impacts of the stress test arose projected impairment charges measured for from increasing the net effect of expected loss and accounting purposes significantly exceeded the prepayment rates for Alt-A securities by between a expected cash losses on the securities.
Over the third and a half depending on loan vintage and by lives of the available-for-sale ABS securities the removing all credit protection from monolines rated cumulative impairment charges will converge below AAA by S&P on the HELoC positions.
The towards the level of cash losses.
results of the stress test showed that, by applying different inputs to those then observed across the Business model available-for-sale ABS population, a further Audited potential impairment charge to the income statement Asset-backed securities and leveraged of some US$2 billion to US$2.5 billion could arise finance in the period 2009 to 2011 with expected cash losses of US$600 million to US$800 million in the period HSBC is or has been involved in the following 2009 to 2012. activities in these areas: In 2009, the Global Banking and Markets purchasing US mortgage loans with the available-for-sale ABS portfolio experienced intention of structuring and placing US$1.4 billion of impairment charges with securitisations into the market: US$378 million of associated expected cash losses.
trading in ABSs, including MBSs, in secondary At 31 December 2009, management undertook an markets: analysis of the portfolio to estimate the further potential impairments and expected cash losses on holding MBSs and other ABSs in balance sheet the available-for-sale ABS portfolio.
This exercise management activities, with the intention of comprised a further shift of projections as at earning net interest income over the life of the 31 December 2009 of future loss severities, default securities: rates and prepayment rates.
The analysis showed holding MBSs and other ABSs as part of that the portfolio is now primarily sensitive to investment portfolios, including the structured impairments arising on Alt-A securities.
The investment vehicles SIVs, SICs and money sensitivity of Global Banking and Markets market funds described under Special purpose available-for-sale ABS positions to the loss of entities below, with the intention of earning net protection from monolines reduced during 2009 and interest income and management fees: is no longer expected to be a material contributor to 156
