scenarios, including projected global economic from off-balance sheet products such as counterparty downturns more severe than that which is currently risk guarantees and credit derivatives, and from the being experienced.
Qualitative and quantitative Groups holdings of debt securities.
Among the risks techniques are used to estimate the potential impact in which the Group engages, credit risk generates the on HSBCs capital position of such scenarios.
HSBC largest regulatory capital requirement.
also participates, where appropriate, in standard The objectives of credit risk management, scenario analyses requested by regulatory bodies.
underpinning sustainably profitable business, are In particular, this framework has aided principally to maintain a strong culture of management in mitigating some of the effects of the responsible lending and a robust risk policy and global financial crisis.
While the prediction of future control framework: to both partner and challenge the events cannot cover all eventualities, nor precisely business line in defining and implementing risk identify future events, a number of the scenarios appetite, with its continuous re-evaluation under analysed in the past provided additional management actual and scenario conditions: and to ensure insight into the actions necessary to mitigate the independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their risks when similar events occurred.
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios The credit risk governance structures and considered for the HSBC Group, each major control frameworks implemented by the Group are subsidiary conducts regular macro-economic and designed for all stages of economic and financial event-driven scenario analyses specific to that region cycles.
During 2009, a number of processes, for under the Group governance framework.
Executive example, crisis management and new product managers from across HSBC meet regularly to review, were enhanced in response to recent best consider and debate the outcome of these scenarios practice recommendations of industry and and formulate recommended management actions.
Central credit risk oversight and Macro-economic analyses are considered regularly independent review activities have been reinforced by GMB.
within a common operating model for the responsibilities and interaction of GMO Risk, Risk control culture regionally integrated risk functions and countrybased management.
HSBCs risk management policies are encapsulated in the Group Standards Manual and cascaded in a Credit Risk is part of the Global Risk function, hierarchy of policy manuals throughout the Group to and the heads of its retail, wholesale and market risk communicate standards, instructions and guidance to disciplines within GMO, as well as regional Chief employees.
They support the formulation of risk Risk Officers and certain country Chief Credit appetite and establish procedures for monitoring and Officers and the Head of Risk Strategy, report to the controlling risks, with timely and reliable reporting to GCRO.
HSBC regularly reviews and updates its Across the Group, Credit Risk fulfils the role of risk management policies, systems and methodologies an independent credit control unit, while engaging to reflect changes in law, regulation, markets, in dialogue with business teams to set priorities, products and emerging best practice.
refine risk appetite, and monitor and report higherIt is the responsibility of all Group officers to risk exposures.
Credit risk and risk capital identify, assess and manage risk within the scope management policies and methodologies, including of their assigned responsibilities.
Personal analytical model developments and management accountability, reinforced by the Groups governance information, are enhanced in the light of experience structure and instilled by training and experience, gained, for instance through the roll-out of the helps to foster throughout the Group a disciplined and Groups advanced internal ratings-based IRB constructive culture of risk management and control.
See also Capital Management on page 285. Credit risk The Credit Risk function within GMO provides high-level oversight and management of credit risk Credit risk management Audited for HSBC worldwide.
Its responsibilities include: Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer formulating Group credit policy.
Compliance, or counterparty fails to meet a payment obligation subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory under a contract.
It arises principally from direct for all HSBCs operating companies, which lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also must develop and record in local instruction 201
