HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Non-life business Insurance risk Term assurance and critical illness policies which it stipulated that STIP products will also be provide cover in the event of death term subject to their remedies when sold in conjunction assurance and serious illness.
with or as a result of a referral following the sale of a loan or similar credit product.
HSBC has undertaken Linked life insurance contracts pay benefits to an analysis of the required changes to the STIP policyholders which are typically determined product and its sales processes resulting from the by reference to the value of the investments CCs remedies.
Following an appeal to the supporting the policies.
Competition Appeal Tribunal, the CC continues to Investment contracts with DPF allow consult on whether a ban on firms selling PPI at the policyholders to participate in the profits point of sale of the credit product is an appropriate generated by such business.
The largest and justified remedy for the deficiencies it identified portfolio is written in France.
Policyholders are in the PPI market.
guaranteed to receive a return on their Given the nature of the contracts written by the investment plus any discretionary bonuses.
In Group, the risks to which HSBCs insurance addition, certain minimum return levels are operations are exposed fall into two principal guaranteed.
categories: insurance risk and financial risk.
The Unit-linked investment contracts are those following section describes the nature and extent of where the principal benefit payable is the value these risks and HSBCs approach to managing them.
Any benefits payable to The majority of the risk in the insurance business policyholders related to insurance risk are not derives from manufacturing activities, and significant on these contracts.
consequently the following sections focus on how the Group manages risk arising in the manufacturing Other investment contracts include pension subsidiaries.
contracts written in Hong Kong.
Insurance risk Non-life insurance business Audited Audited Insurance risk is a risk, other than financial risk, Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and transferred from the holder of a contract to the other damage to property, accident and health, issuer, in this case HSBC.
repayment protection and commercial insurances.
The principal insurance risk faced by HSBC Motor insurance business covers vehicle is that, over time, the combined cost of damage and liability for personal injury.
For fire and claims, benefits, administration and other damage to property, the main focus in most markets is providing individuals with home and acquisition of the contract may exceed the contents insurance.
Cover is also provided for aggregate amount of premiums received selected commercial customers, largely written in and investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits can be A very limited portfolio of liability business is influenced by many factors, including mortality and written, other than that included in the motor book.
morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in of the assets held to support the liabilities.
North America, and is originated in conjunction with Performance of the underlying assets is affected by the provision of loans.
Following a decision taken to changes in both interest rates and equity prices see close the Consumer Lending business in the US, page 274. insurance products written in conjunction with this business will now be run off.
In December 2007, the During 2009, Group Insurance agreed to a group decided to cease selling payment protection global risk appetite statement in relation to insurance insurance PPI products in the UK and a phased risks, encompassing limits on the largest exposures withdrawal was completed across the HSBC, first the business will write in normal circumstances.
In direct and M&S Money brands during 2008.
HFC addition to the global statement, local businesses ceased selling single premium PPI in 2008 and sales continue to propose their own risk appetites that are of regular PPI will reduce as HFC exits its remaining authorised centrally.
HSBC continues to distribute its Life and non-life business insurance risks are UK short-term income protection STIP product.
controlled by high-level policies and procedures set In January 2009, the Competition Commission centrally, supplemented as appropriate with CC published its report into the PPI market in 266 measures which take account of specific local Although reinsurance provides a means of market conditions and regulatory requirements.
managing insurance risk, such contracts expose the Group to counterparty risk, the risk of default by the Specifically, the Group manages its exposure reinsurer see page 277. to insurance risk by applying formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures The following tables provide an analysis of designed to ensure compliance with regulations.
HSBCs insurance risk exposures by geographical This is supplemented with stress testing.
In addition, region and by type of business.
By definition, HSBC manufacturing entities are required to obtain is not exposed to insurance risk on investment authorisation from Group Insurance Head Office to contracts, so they are not included in the insurance write certain classes of business, with restrictions risk management analysis.
applying to commercial and liability non-life Insurance contracts sold by HSBC primarily insurance, in particular.
relate to core underlying banking activities, such as Local ALCOs and Risk Management savings and investment products, and credit life Committees are required to monitor certain risk products.
The Groups manufacturing focuses on exposures, mainly for life business where the focus personal lines, e. g. contracts written for individuals, is on reviewing the risks associated with the duration which tend to be of higher value than commercial and cash flow matching of insurance assets and lines.
The focus on the higher volume, lower liabilities.
individual value personal lines contributes to diversifying insurance risk.
Reinsurance is also used as a means of mitigating exposure, in particular to aggregations of Life business tends to be longer-term in nature catastrophe risk.
Specific examples are as follows: than non-life business and frequently involves an element of savings and investment in the contract.
Potential Accordingly, separate tables are provided for life and exposure to concentrations of claims arising non-life businesses, reflecting their distinctive risk from isolated events such as earthquakes are characteristics.
The life insurance risk table provides mitigated by the purchase of catastrophe an analysis of insurance liabilities as the best reinsurance.
available overall measure of insurance exposure, Motor insurance.
Reinsurance protection is because provisions for life contracts are typically set arranged to avoid excessive exposure to larger by reference to expected future cash outflows losses, particularly from personal injury claims.
relating to the underlying policies.
The table for non-life business uses written premiums as the best Fire and other damage to property.
Portfolios at available measure of risk exposure because policies risk from catastrophic losses are protected by are typically priced by reference to the risk being reinsurance in accordance with information underwritten.
obtained from professional risk-modelling organisations.
Audited Insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies The above table of liabilities to life insurance considerably.
The principal risks are mortality, policyholders highlights that the most significant morbidity, lapse, surrender and expense levels.
products are investment contracts with DPF issued in France, insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong The main contracts which generate exposure to Kong and unit-linked contracts issued in Hong mortality and morbidity risks are term assurance Kong, Latin America and Europe.
These risks are monitored on a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by medical underwriting and by retaining the ability in reference to a range of assumptions which include certain cases to amend premiums in the light of lapse and surrender rates, mortality and expense experience.
The risk associated with lapses and levels.
These assumptions typically reflect each surrenders is generally mitigated by the application entitys own experience.
Economic assumptions, of surrender charges, though other management such as investment returns and interest rates, are actions, such as managing the level of bonus usually based on market observable data.
Changes in payments to policyholders, may be taken.
Expense underlying assumptions affect the liabilities.
The risk is generally managed through pricing.
The level sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity of expenses in the contract will be one of the factors to changes in both economic and non-economic considered when setting premiums.
assumptions are considered below in Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors and Sensitivity analysis.
Audited Underwriting risk is the risk that HSBC does not charge premiums appropriate to the cover provided The above table of non-life net written insurance and claims experience risk is the risk that portfolio premiums provides an overall summary of the experience differs from expectations.
HSBC non-life insurance activity of the Group.
Motor manages these risks through pricing for example, business is written predominantly in Europe and imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy Latin America and represented the largest class of terms and conditions, product design, risk selection, non-life business in 2009.
However, following a claims handling, investment strategy and reinsurance decision to close to new business in the second half policy.
The majority of non-life insurance contracts of 2009, the UK motor book is now in run-off.
Fire are renewable annually and the underwriters have and other damage to property business is written in the right to refuse renewal or to change the terms and all major markets, most significantly in Europe.
conditions of the contract at that time.
Management Credit non-life insurance, which is originated in may decide to withdraw a product from the market conjunction with the provision of loans, is when it is no longer considered commercially viable, concentrated in the US and Europe.
such as the closure of the UK motor book to new The main risks associated with non-life business business in 2009. are underwriting risk and claims experience risk.
269 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Insurance risk Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing liabilities should be matched.
The scenarios include subsidiaries by type of contract stresses applied to factors which affect insurance Audited risk such as mortality and lapse rates.
In addition to assessing the actual cash inflow required to meet A principal tool used by HSBC to manage its cash outflows, of particular importance is the need to exposure to insurance risk, in particular for match the expected pattern of cash inflows with the life insurance contracts, is asset and liability benefits payable on the underlying contracts, which matching.
can extend for many years.
It may not always be possible to achieve a higher than those observed in the current market.
As complete matching of asset and liability durations, a result, the current yield of the debt securities partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder exceeds that which may be obtained on current behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the issues.
Management action was taken in relation to receipt of all future premiums and the timing of certain participating contracts to reduce short-term claims, and partly because the duration of liabilities bonus rates paid to policyholders to manage the may exceed the duration of the longest available immediate strain on the business.
Should interest dated fixed interest investments.
In an environment rates and yield curves return to lower levels for where interest rates and yield curves are falling, prolonged periods, further management actions may insurance operations are exposed to re-investment be needed.
risk as higher yielding assets held in the portfolio The table below shows the composition of assets mature and are replaced with lower yielding assets.
and liabilities by region and demonstrates that there Given the objective to hold rather than trade were sufficient assets to cover the liabilities to investments, the current portfolio of assets includes policyholders for each region at the end of 2009. debt securities issued at a time when yields were 271
