HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review Principal activities Strategic direction Challenges and uncertainties Principal activities knowledge and international breadth is supported by a substantial financial capability founded on balance HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial sheet strength, largely attributable to the scale of the services organisations in the world, with a market Groups retail deposit bases.
capitalisation of US$199 billion at 31 December HSBC is, therefore, continuing to direct 2009. incremental investment primarily to the faster Through its subsidiaries and associates, HSBC growing markets and, in the more developed provides a comprehensive range of banking and markets, is focusing on businesses and customer related financial services.
Headquartered in London, segments which have international connectivity.
A HSBC operates through long-established businesses policy of maintaining HSBCs capital strength and and has an international network of some 8,000 strong liquidity position remains complementary to properties in 88 countries and territories in six these activities and is the foundation of decisions geographical regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest about the pace and direction of investment.
of Asia-Pacific: the Middle East: North America and The Group has identified three main business Latin America.
Previously, the Middle East was models for its customer groups and global businesses reported as part of Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Within these that embody HSBCs areas of natural advantage: regions, a comprehensive range of financial services is offered to personal, commercial, corporate, businesses with international customers for institutional, investment and private banking clients.
whom connections with developing markets are Services are delivered primarily by domestic banks, crucial Global Banking and Markets, Private typically with large retail deposit bases, and by Banking, the large business segment of consumer finance operations.
Commercial Banking and the mass affluent segment of Personal Financial Services: Taken together, the five largest customers of HSBC do not account for more than one per cent of businesses with local customers where service HSBCs income.
efficiencies can be enhanced through global scale the small business segment of The Group has contractual and other Commercial Banking and the mass market arrangements with numerous third parties in support segment of Personal Financial Services: and of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the products where global scale is possible by business of the Group.
applying the Groups efficiency, expertise and brand product platforms such as global There were no significant acquisitions during transaction banking.
the year for details of acquisitions see page 444.
The means of executing the strategy and making Strategic direction greater use of the linkages within the Group are clear: HSBCs strategic direction reflects its position as The worlds local bank, combining the largest the HSBC brand and global networks will be global emerging markets banking business and a leveraged to reach new customers and offer uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with an further services to existing clients: extensive international network and substantial efficiency will be enhanced by taking full financial strength.
advantage of local, regional and global The Groups strategy is aligned with the key economies of scale, in particular by adopting trends which are shaping the global economy.
In a common systems architecture wherever particular, HSBC recognises that, over the long term, possible: and developing markets are growing faster than the objectives and incentives will be aligned to mature economies, world trade is expanding at a motivate and reward staff for being fully greater rate than gross domestic product and life engaged in delivering the strategy.
expectancy is lengthening virtually everywhere.
HSBCs strategy is focused on delivering superior Challenges and uncertainties growth and earnings over time by building on the Groups heritage and skills.
Its origins in trade in Current economic and market conditions Asia have had a considerable influence over the may adversely affect HSBCs results development of the Group and, as a consequence, HSBCs earnings are affected by global and local HSBC has an established and longstanding presence economic and market conditions.
The dislocation in in many countries.
The combination of local 12 financial markets which began in August 2007 put subjective and complex judgements.
These financial institutions under considerable pressure.
include forecasts of economic conditions and Market turbulence was accompanied by recessionary how predicted economic scenarios may impair conditions in developed economies and a slowdown the ability of HSBCs borrowers to repay their in emerging countries, with serious adverse loans or affect the value of assets.
As a consequences for asset values, employment, consequence, this process may be less capable consumer confidence and levels of economic of making accurate estimates which, in turn, activity.
The global economy entered the most severe may undermine the reliability of the process: downturn for 80 years in 2008. the demand for borrowing from creditworthy Governments and central banks took concerted customers may diminish should economic action to make substantial funds and deposit activity slow: guarantees available to boost liquidity and a prolonged period of low interest rates will confidence in their financial systems, stimulate constrain net interest income earned by HSBC lending and support institutions which were judged on its excess deposits: to be at risk of failing.
In addition, governments extended fiscal stimulus programmes and central HSBCs ability to borrow from other financial banks reduced interest rates.
As a consequence, institutions or to engage in funding transactions conditions eased in 2009 and most leading on favourable terms, or at all, could be developed economies began to emerge from adversely affected by any renewed disruption recession, although the pace and depth of recovery in the capital markets or deteriorating investor was uneven across economies and asset markets.
sentiment: The financial services industry continued to face market developments may continue to depress an unusually high degree of uncertainty.
consumer confidence and may cause further Despite some evidence of stabilisation in declines in credit card usage and adverse housing market conditions during 2009, the dramatic changes in payment patterns, leading to declines of the previous two years, particularly in the increases in delinquencies and default rates, US and the UK, continued to affect adversely the write-offs and loan impairment charges beyond credit performance of real estate-related exposures.
HSBCs expectations: Higher unemployment undermined consumer loan impairment allowances and write-offs confidence and this, coupled with the deterioration in would be likely to rise in the event of a double house prices, led to lower spending which weakened dip recession as consumer confidence economies.
This resulted in significant write-downs weakened and business failures increased: of related asset values by financial institutions, including HSBC.
These write-downs, both of direct HSBC expects to face increased regulation and lending exposures and of asset-backed securities, supervision of the financial services industry, caused many financial institutions to seek additional following new proposed regulatory measures in capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge countries in which it operates: with larger and stronger competitors and, in some trade and capital flows may contract as a result cases, to fail.
of protectionist measures being introduced in Economic conditions remain fragile, and the risk certain markets: and exists that major economies may suffer a double increased government ownership and dip recession in which the improvements seen in a control over financial institutions and further number of important markets reverse.
This could consolidation in the financial industry which have an adverse effect on HSBCs operating results.
could significantly alter the competitive In particular, the Group may face the following landscape.
challenges in connection with these events: As a global financial institution, HSBC HSBCs ability to assess the creditworthiness is exposed to these developments across all its of its customers or to estimate the values of its businesses, both directly and through their impact assets may be impaired if the models and on its customers and clients.
Local variations exist, techniques it uses become less accurate in their however, reflecting regional circumstances and predictions of future behaviour, valuations or presenting challenges to HSBC which are specific estimates.
The process HSBC uses to estimate to those areas.
HSBCs strong balance sheet and losses inherent in its credit exposure or assess capital position, its roots in emerging markets and the value of certain assets requires difficult, 13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Challenges and uncertainties its links with the developed world provide it with the Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific platform to continue to grow, taking opportunities to In Asia-Pacific, Hong Kong remains HSBCs key expand its operations in existing markets and market, and through the financial crisis has connect local customers internationally.
continued to generate relatively high returns on capital.
HSBC will invest to maintain its competitive Europe position in Hong Kong while continuing to support In the UK, the contraction in economic output its growing franchises in other markets in the region.
appears to have ceased with the country emerging The slowdown in commercial activity, which slowly from recession in the last quarter of 2009. precipitated the coordinated government stimulus However, economic indicators remain weak and packages, affected fee-based businesses, and the risk of the country slipping back into recession continuing low interest rates have left deposit in 2010 remains, thus delaying the recovery.
However, HSBC is now seeing Government measures to tackle the record levels more lending demand as regional economies emerge of national debt, including taxation increases and from recession and equity markets and cross-border public spending cuts, are also likely to result in a trade flows improve.
HSBC attracted higher deposits slower recovery than from other recessions.
Political in 2009 despite intensified competition for liquidity, involvement in the regulatory environment and the and this added to the challenges of finding major financial institutions in which the state has a opportunities to deploy the deposits where credit direct financial interest will continue.
A recent increase in demands for increased credit to support the lending has started to ease some of these pressures.
economic recovery coupled with regulatory actions Emerging markets in Asia-Pacific currently offer the to diminish the banking sectors reliance on shortbrightest prospects, with GDP growth in mainland term wholesale funding will increase competition for China and India, in particular, expected to be strong deposits, narrowing margins.
The combination of in 2010. slow economic recovery, government intervention As the worlds fastest growing region, Asia is and increased competition for deposits will maintain expected to drive incremental growth in the global pressure on profitability within HSBCs retail recovery.
Inflation triggered by rising output prices business model.
Credit quality is expected to and increased demand remains a concern which has improve in some sectors, however, as the economy prompted regulatory interventions in the form of returns to growth but could suffer a reversal should cooling measures to manage asset growth and there be any further increase in unemployment in prevent, as far as possible, asset bubbles emerging.
Mainland China has been prominent in taking a lead In France, following government stimulus in this area.
HSBCs strong liquidity position in the measures, the economy has started recovering with region remains key to the Groups ability to expand gross domestic product GDP growing slightly as well as increase margins when interest rates begin from the second quarter of 2009 and the number of to rise again, the timing of which remains uncertain.
Although Regional markets are likely to remain competitive unemployment is rising and there are concerns about due to the growing presence of large domestic and the public deficit, household consumption remains regional banks, for example, the mainland Chinese robust and continues to drive the economy.
retail business model depends on banking fees and a consolidation of the recovery observed in the Middle East financial markets in 2009 will help sustain After a very difficult year, there are signs that the profitability.
Credit quality is expected to remain conditions for a recovery in Middle East economic stable for personal customers due to the quality of activity have begun to emerge.
Assuming an average the client base, though the outlook for commercial oil price in excess of US$70 a barrel, public finances credit remains less certain.
in the key oil producing states such as Saudi Arabia, Outside the UK and France, conditions are Qatar and the United Arab Emirates UAE should likely to remain difficult in some of the countries in improve, allowing governments to maintain and which HSBC currently operates in Europe and even accelerate fiscal stimulus programmes.
volatility is expected to continue, in particular as Investment spending is also likely to pick up markets focus on potential sovereign credit after last years slowdown, although ongoing deterioration.
difficulty accessing funding will impede the pace of capital spending growth for the public and private 14 sector alike.
Tight financing conditions as well as a institutions with more than US$50 billion on sharp fall in asset prices in some parts of the region consolidated assets for at least 10 years.
It is not will also weigh on an expected increase in private possible to assess the financial impact of this consumption levels.
proposal, however, until final legislation has been enacted.
Provided the external environment continues to strengthen, regional non-commodity exporters such Latin America as Egypt should see the recent downturn in demand for tourism and trade services slowly reverse, Economic activity in Latin America was affected by offering additional support for growth.
the global economic recession in 2009.
The regions weighted average GDP is expected to fall by 2.7 per With most regional economies basing their cent in the year, though growth may resume in 2010 monetary regimes around a US dollar-peg, interest given the outlook for world trade and a rebound in rates are expected to remain at historically low levels economic activity.
Unemployment rates in the region across much of the region in 2010.
Coupled with rose in 2009 and it is probable that this trend will growth in government spending and gains in global continue, albeit at a slower pace as economies begin commodity prices, this may result in a rise in to recover.
Inflation fell due to falling commodity inflation.
After the sharp economic downturn of prices and lower demand.
These effects will begin to 2009, however, the increase in price pressure is reverse in 2010 and consequently inflation may rise.
HSBC is positioning itself to grow in select North America customer markets, though challenges remain to expanding business volumes.
Margin pressures are In 2009, the economic backdrop in the US continued expected to continue throughout the region due to to be characterised by tight credit conditions, fierce competition for prime customers and lower reduced economic growth and a weak housing interest rates than the historical averages.
Against this, market confidence began to further reduction in GDP and increase in increase, beginning in the second quarter of the year, unemployment will negatively affect business stemming largely from government initiatives to activity, compounded by uncertainty surrounding restore faith in the capital markets, and the benefits presidential elections in Costa Rica, Colombia and to borrowers of the prolonged period of low Federal Brazil in 2010 and in Peru and Argentina in 2011. funds rates.
The latter put pressure on spreads earned on HSBCs deposit base, however.
As the disruption Liquidity and funding risks are inherent in to financial markets eased, evidence emerged of HSBCs business contracting credit spreads and improved liquidity during 2009, beginning in the second quarter of the HSBCs business model is founded upon having year, enabling many companies to issue debt and ready access to financial resources whenever raise new capital.
required to meet its obligations and grow its business.
To this end, HSBC entities seek to The reduction in uncertainty helped capital maintain a diversified and stable funding base markets to recover and stock markets to rise.
Signs comprising core retail and corporate customer of stabilisation in house prices, most notably in the deposits and institutional balances, and certain lower price ranges, began to emerge in the third entities augment this with modest amounts of quarter of the year.
An improvement in long-term wholesale funding.
In addition, HSBC unemployment and a sustained recovery in the holds portfolios of highly liquid assets diversified housing market continue to remain critical to by currency and maturity to enable it to respond to consumer confidence and a broader US economic unusual liquidity requirements.
Although consumer confidence has improved, it remains depressed on a historical basis, Where markets become illiquid, the value at driven by declines in household income and wealth which financial instruments can be realised is highly and the job market remaining difficult.
It is likely uncertain, and although processes are available to that these conditions will continue to constrain the estimate fair values, they require substantial Groups results into 2010, although the degree to elements of judgement, assumptions and estimates which this happens remains uncertain.
which may change over time.
The risk of illiquidity, therefore, may reduce capital resources as On 14 January 2010, the US Administration valuations decline.
Actions or the threat of actions by announced its intention to propose a Financial Crisis third parties and independent market participants, Responsibility Fee to be assessed against financial such as rating agency downgrades of instruments to 15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Challenges and uncertainties which HSBC has exposure, can result in reduced lessons of the crisis which includes proposals on liquidity and valuations of those instruments.
The strengthening global capital and liquidity regulations liquidity of those HSBC entities that utilise and the resolution of systemically significant crosslong-term wholesale markets could be constrained border banks.
The Committees paper entitled by an inability to access them due to a variety of Strengthening the Resilience of the Banking Sector unforeseen market dislocations or interruptions.
proposes changes to both the composition of capital Rating agencies which determine HSBCs credit and the risk coverage of the capital framework, as ratings and thereby influence the Groups cost of well as the introduction of a leverage ratio and funds, take into consideration the effectiveness of measures to promote the build up of capital buffers.
HSBCs liquidity risk management framework.
The stated intention of these proposals is to promote a more resilient banking sector, to improve the The market conditions that the financial services banking sectors ability to absorb shocks, to industry experienced during the height of the crisis improve risk management and to strengthen bank were reflected in decreased liquidity, reduced transparency and disclosure.
The proposals availability of long-term wholesale market funding, on liquidity aim to elevate the resilience of pressure on capital and extreme price volatility internationally active banks to liquidity stresses, as across a wide range of asset classes.
Illiquidity well as increasing international harmonisation of prevented the realisation of some asset positions and liquidity risk supervision.
A study of the impact of constrained risk distribution in ongoing banking all these proposals on individual banks, and the activities.
The market conditions also highlighted the financial services industry as a whole, is taking significant benefits of a diversified core deposit base, place in the first half of 2010 in parallel with a leading to increased competition for such deposits consultation process.
The Committee is then seeking and the greater risk of deposit migration between to agree proposals by the end of 2010 for competitors.
implementation by the end of 2012.
HSBCs Global Banking and Markets business At the same time, the European Commission, operates in many markets affected by illiquidity and the UK Tripartite Authorities HM Treasury, the is subject to the threat of extreme price volatility, Bank of England and the Financial Services either directly or indirectly, through exposures to Authority FSA, the US Government and others securities, loans, derivatives and other commitments.
have made a number of proposals for adjustments in At the height of the financial crisis, HSBC made their regulatory regimes which could affect entities substantial write-downs and recognised impairments in the HSBC Group.
HSBC is engaged actively in on illiquid legacy credit and structured credit discussions with its regulators, both directly and positions.
Although during 2009 there was some through industry bodies, on the appropriate regime to moderation in market conditions, it is difficult to be applied to various activities and entities, taking predict if this trend will continue and, if conditions into account the interaction of global and local worsen, which of HSBCs markets, products and regulations.
The precise nature, extent, form and other businesses will be affected.
Any repeat of these timing of any regulatory changes, as well as the factors could have an adverse effect on the Groups degree to which there will be effective consultation results.
among the various jurisdictions involved, are highly uncertain and thus it is not possible to determine or Reform of the regulatory environment estimate the likely actual impact on the Groups presents risks to HSBC business and activities.
Major areas where reform is There are potential strategic and structural risks to being actively discussed, all of which could affect the organisation, nature and scope of the Groups HSBCs business and activities, are possible capital business activities and opportunities posed by many surcharges for systemically important banks, greater of the proposals for regulatory reform being debated emphasis on standalone national subsidiaries, both internationally and domestically in response to reduced interconnectedness within the system, the recent financial crisis.
A consensus has emerged changes to capital regulations affecting both capital among the G-20 nations that institutions that would and capital requirements, changes in compensation pose a systemic risk if they were to fail should be practices, restrictions on certain types of financial subject to enhanced regulation in markets in which products, and greater separation of retail and they have a substantial presence.
HSBC is likely to wholesale activities.
be considered a systemically significant institution in HSBC Bank, like all authorised institutions in its key markets.
The Basel Committee on Banking the UK, is subject to a Special Resolutions Regime Supervision The Committee has issued a under the Banking Act 2009 which gives wide comprehensive reform package to address the 16 powers in respect of UK banks and their parent cannot be realised or has to be liquidated at prices companies to HM Treasury, the Bank of England which are insufficient to recover the full amount of and the FSA in circumstances where any such UK its loan or derivative exposure.
bank has encountered or is likely to encounter financial difficulties.
HSBC operates in a highly competitive environment, and competition could HSBC is subject to political and economic intensify as a result of current global market risks in the countries in which it operates conditions and possible changes thereto HSBC operates through an international network The financial crisis has begun to re-shape the of subsidiaries and affiliates in 87 countries and banking landscape globally and those institutions territories around the world.
Its results are, therefore, which have emerged the strongest have reinforced subject to the risk of loss from unfavourable political both the importance of a core retail and commercial developments, currency fluctuations, social deposit funding base and strong capitalisation.
instability and changes in government policies on At the height of the crisis, financial institutions such matters as expropriation, authorisations, requiring support from governments in a variety of international ownership, interest-rate caps, limits ways were characterised broadly as being dependent on dividend flows and tax in the jurisdictions in on short-term wholesale funding which failed to roll which it operates.
These factors may also negatively over due to market concerns about the quality of the affect revenues from the trading of securities and assets being funded.
As a consequence, financial investment in securities, and credit quality in lending firms have sought to reduce the proportion of their portfolios.
The ability of HSBCs subsidiaries and balance sheets funded in the wholesale markets.
As affiliates to pay dividends could be restricted by a result, competition for retail deposits and tighter changes in official banking measures, exchange balance sheet control have resulted in re-pricing of controls and other requirements.
HSBC prepares its loans and advances.
Although the financial accounts in US dollars, but because a substantial industrys renewed focus on building retail deposit portion of its assets, liabilities, assets under bases has resulted in greater price competition in management, revenues and expenses are terms of interest rates offered, the strength of denominated in other currencies, changes in foreign HSBCs brand and its longstanding conservative exchange rates have an effect on its reported income, balance sheet structure and its relationship-based cash flows and shareholders equity.
approach have enabled the Group to increase deposits in the current environment.
HSBC has significant exposure to counterparty risk both within the financial Further consolidation is expected to take place sector and to other risk concentrations through portfolio disposals, the sale of banks and financial institutions weakened by the crisis, or the HSBC has exposure to virtually all major industries consolidation of smaller institutions which lack the and counterparties, and it routinely executes scale to compete in a world of higher capital and transactions with counterparties in financial services, liquidity requirements.
including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other In addition, the crisis has reinforced a global institutional clients.
Many of these transactions economic shift towards emerging markets.
It is expose HSBC to credit risk in the event of default by now expected that much of the growth in financial its counterparty or client.
HSBCs ability to engage services will be in emerging markets as their in routine transactions to fund its operations and economies continue to grow and the relative manage its risks could be adversely affected by the penetration of banking activities increases.
actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions.
Financial institutions are HSBC is subject to legal and compliance necessarily interdependent because of trading, risks, which could have an adverse effect clearing, counterparty or other relationships.
As a on the Group consequence, a default by, or decline in market Legal and compliance risks arise from a variety of confidence in, individual institutions, or anxiety sources with the potential to cause harm to HSBC about the financial services industry generally, can and its ability to operate.
These issues require the lead to further individual and or systemic Group to deal appropriately with potential conflicts difficulties, defaults and losses.
Where counterparty of interest: regulatory requirements: ethical issues: risk has been mitigated by taking collateral, HSBCs anti-money laundering laws and regulations: privacy credit risk may remain high if the collateral it holds laws: information security policies: sales and trading 17
