HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net interest income in 2007 when HSBC did not participate in share slowed.
Global Banking and Markets also experienced offerings by its mainland China associates.
Within a rise in loan impairment charges and other credit risk Asia, Global Banking and Markets results were provisions as refinancing options dried up for a strongly ahead, driven by foreign exchange, Rates number of companies as the market for long-term and securities services.
Balance Sheet Management asset financing became increasingly illiquid.
The revenues rose significantly from positioning ahead market turmoil also led to impairments on equity of interest rate cuts, and were especially strong in securities in the available-for-sale portfolio.
Europe despite losses from the defaults of certain The following items were significant: financial sector companies.
With the exception of Personal Financial Services, which incurred the non-recurrence of US$1.1 billion of gains significant losses in North America, all customer which arose in 2007 on the dilution of the groups remained profitable.
Commercial Banking Groups stakes in various associates: and Private Banking delivered results broadly in line a US$3.6 billion increase from US$3.0 billion with 2007, while Global Banking and Markets in 2007 to US$6.6 billion in fair value gains profits declined.
from wider credit spreads recorded Performance was overshadowed by a predominantly on HSBCs own long-term US$7.8 billion rise in loan impairment charges and debt designated at fair value.
These gains other credit risk provisions, largely from the US reported in the Other segment, are not consumer finance business, and a further allocated to customer groups and are not US$5.4 billion in trading write-downs on illiquid included within regulatory capital calculations: legacy positions in credit trading, leveraged and the gain of US$2.4 billion on the sale of the acquisition finance and monoline credit exposure in French regional banks: and Global Banking and Markets.
Increases in loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions in a charge against trading income of Personal Financial Services and Commercial Banking, US$984 million following the fraud in the latter rising rapidly in the second half of 2008 December 2008 relating to Madoff Securities.
2009 compared with 2008 of the reduction in major currency interest rates.
As these positions began to mature, the revenue from Reported net interest income of US$40.7 billion fell Balance Sheet Managements activities reduced but by 4 per cent compared with 2008, but was remained strong in the second half of 2009. marginally higher on an underlying basis.
Average interest-earning assets fell slightly due Reported net interest income includes the to a decline in term lending, mainly from the run-off expense of the internal funding of trading assets, portfolios in North America and the decline in while related revenue is reported in trading income.
The cost of internally funding these assets declined significantly as a result of the low interest rate Average interest-bearing liabilities also environment.
In HSBCs customer group reporting, decreased, due to a decline in debt securities in issue this cost is included within trading income.
as funding requirements for HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance fell as certain Deposit spreads were squeezed by the portfolios were managed down.
This was largely exceptionally low interest rates, although this was offset by a rise in current account balances, driven partly offset by the reduced cost of funding trading by growth in customer demand for more liquid activities.
Strong revenues in Balance Sheet assets.
The very low interest rates led to clients Management reflected positions taken in 2008 ahead 26
