HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Where more information is available Taxation of shares and dividends HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are Where more information about liable to UK income tax at the dividend higher rate HSBC is available or additional rate which applies for the tax year This Annual Report and Accounts 2009, and other 2010-11 and subsequent years on UK dividend information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs income currently 32.5 per cent and 42.5 per cent website: www.
are taxed on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax credit.
The tax credit is available for Reports, statements or information that HSBC set-off against the higher rate and additional rate Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange liability.
Individual UK resident shareholders are Commission are available at www.
Investors not entitled to any tax credit repayment.
can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Although non-UK resident shareholders are SEC at the Office of Investor Education and generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
such shareholders may be so entitled under the Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 provisions of a double taxation agreement between 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may their country of residence and the UK.
However, in also obtain the reports and other information that most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, HSBC Holdings files at www.
Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Taxation of shares and dividends 2008 fourth interim dividend and the first, second Taxation UK residents and third interim dividends for 2009 was set out in the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 31 March, The following is a summary, under current law, of 3 June, 1 September and 1 December 2009.
In the the principal UK tax considerations that are likely case of the 2008 fourth interim dividend, the to be material to the ownership and disposition of difference between the cash dividend foregone and shares.
The summary does not purport to be a the market value of the scrip dividend exceeded comprehensive description of all the tax 15 per cent of the market value.
Accordingly, the considerations that may be relevant to a holder of amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident in the UK for US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold capital gains tax purposes, was the market value of the shares as investments and who are the beneficial 5.39 per share.
In each other case the difference owners of the shares, and does not address the tax was less than 15 per cent and the price of the shares treatment of certain classes of holders such as was the cash dividend foregone.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers Taxation of capital gains regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, The computation of the capital gains tax liability including the effect of any national, state or local arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by laws.
shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for Taxation of dividends example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange an associated tax credit which is available for set-off for shares in other companies.
by certain shareholders against any liability they may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any one-ninth of the cash dividend.
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation For individual shareholders who are resident allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders are in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK recommended to consult their professional advisers.
income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from 480
