Note 22 on the Financial Statements includes selecting an appropriate discount rate for details of the CGUs with significant balances of the instrument.
Management bases the goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess determination of this rate on its assessment of the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment, what a market participant would regard as the and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the appropriate spread of the rate for the instrument carrying value of goodwill to changes in key over the appropriate risk-free rate: and assumptions.
judgement to determine what model to use to calculate fair value in areas where the choice of Valuation of financial instruments valuation model is particularly subjective, for HSBCs accounting policy for determining the example, when valuing complex derivative fair value of financial instruments is described in products.
Note 2d on the Financial Statements.
When applying a model with unobservable The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties in an actively traded market.
In the event that the in fair values resulting from a lack of market data market for a financial instrument is not active, a inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in the valuation technique is used.
For these instruments, the fair value valuation techniques employ only observable market measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations data, and so the reliability of the fair value based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain measurement is high.
However, certain financial because there is little or no current market data instruments are valued on the basis of valuation available from which to determine the level at which techniques that feature one or more significant an arms length transaction would occur under market inputs that are unobservable.
However, in most cases techniques that rely to a greater extent on there is some market data available on which to base unobservable inputs require a higher level of a determination of fair value, for example historical management judgement to calculate a fair value than data, and the fair values of most financial those based wholly on observable inputs.
instruments will be based on some market observable inputs even where the unobservable Valuation techniques used to calculate fair inputs are significant.
values include comparisons with similar financial instruments for which market observable prices The value of financial assets and liabilities exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing measured at fair value that use a valuation technique models and other valuation techniques commonly was US$599 billion 2008: US$876 billion and used by market participants.
Valuation techniques US$447 billion 2008: US$671 billion or 56 per incorporate assumptions that other market cent 2008: 71 per cent and 75 per cent 2008: participants would use in their valuations, including 83 per cent of total financial assets and total assumptions about interest rate yield curves, financial liabilities measured at fair value, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and respectively.
When valuing instruments by reference Disclosures of types and amounts of fair value to comparable instruments, management takes into adjustments made in determining the fair value of account the maturity, structure and rating of the financial instruments measured at fair value using instrument with which the position held is being valuation techniques is provided on page 168.
addition, a sensitivity analysis of fair values for The main assumptions and estimates which financial instruments with significant unobservable management considers when applying a model with inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions valuation techniques are: and a range of assumptions can be found on page 175.
Given the uncertainty and subjective the likelihood and expected timing of future nature of valuing financial instruments at fair value, cash flows on the instrument.
These cash flows it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial are usually governed by the terms of the year could differ from the assumptions used, and this instrument, although management judgement could result in a material adjustment to the carrying may be required when the ability of the amount of financial instruments measured at fair counterparty to service the instrument in value.
accordance with the contractual terms is in doubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to changes in market rates: 63
