HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Market risk Credit risk includes an individual responsible for market and cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one liquidity risk.
basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values: As described above, the product approval process includes an identification and assessment of for equity price risk, the total market value of the risk embedded in new products, for example, equity holdings and the market value of equity those including options and guarantees within the holdings by region and country: and contract.
When such product features are identified, for foreign exchange risk, the total net short the product proposal is reviewed by Group Insurance foreign exchange position and the net foreign Head Office to ensure that the key risks are exchange positions by currency.
identified and appropriate risk management procedures are in place.
Management reviews certain Although these measures are relatively exposures more frequently when markets straightforward to calculate and aggregate, there demonstrate increased volatility to ensure that any are limitations with them.
The most significant matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion.
limitation is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear Each insurance manufacturing subsidiary is relationships between the values of certain assets and required to have a market risk mandate which liabilities and interest rates.
Non-linearity arises, for specifies the investment instruments in which it is example, from investment return guarantees and permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of certain product features such as the ability of market risk which it is permitted to retain.
It is the policyholders to surrender their policies.
If the responsibility of the subsidiarys ALCO and the yields on investments held to support contracts Market and Liquidity Risk Committee subwith guarantees are less than the investment returns committee to the Group Insurance Risk Committee implied by the guarantees, shortfalls will be to the to ensure that each mandate is consistent with local account of HSBC.
All mandates are reviewed and agreed annually by Group Insurance Head Office, and HSBC recognises these limitations and aggregate limits are approved by the Risk augments its standard measures with stress tests Management Meeting of GMB.
All market risk which examine the effect of a range of market rate mandates include management action loss limits scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total designed to control risk.
equity of the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries report How the exposures to risks are measured the results of their stress tests every quarter to Group Audited Insurance Head Office, where the reports are consolidated and reviewed by the Group Insurance HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting and the Group monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly Stress Test Review Group.
and report these quarterly to Group Insurance Head Office.
Exposures are aggregated and reported to HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries senior risk management forums in the Group, identify the assets and liabilities in their financial including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity statements whose values are sensitive to each Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk Committee category of market risk and revalue them at various and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
The outcome of the exercise is expressed in terms of the effect on profit for the year The standard measures used to quantify the and total equity under the stress-tested assumptions, market risks are as follows: after taking into consideration tax and accounting for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net treatments where material and relevant.
present values of asset and expected liability 276 Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to risk factors Audited 2009 2008 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit for total profit for total the year equity the year equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 68 82 94 13 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 69 92 82 24 10 per cent increase in equity prices............................ 19 19 10 10 10 per cent decrease in equity prices............................ 20 20 12 12 10 per cent increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies....................................... 20 20 28 29 10 per cent decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies....................................... 20 20 28 29 Sensitivity to credit spread increases........................... 36 91 73 134 The above table illustrates the effect on the investments, absent impairment, would have no aggregated profit for the year and total equity under impact on the profit after tax.
various interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange The exposure of the income statement to the rate and credit spread scenarios.
Where appropriate, effect of changes in credit spread is small.
the impact of the stress on the PVIF is included in the results of the stress tests.
The relationship HSBC sells certain unit-linked life insurance between the values of certain assets and liabilities contracts which are reinsured with a third-party.
and the risk factors may be non-linear and, therefore, These insurance contracts include market return the results disclosed cannot be extrapolated to guarantees which are underwritten by the third-party.
measure sensitivities to different levels of stress.
The HSBC is exposed to credit risk to the extent that the sensitivities are stated before allowance for the effect third-party the counterparty is unable to meet the of management actions which may mitigate changes terms of the guarantees.
As highlighted in Market in market rates, and for any factors such as Risk above, the cost to the Group of market return policyholder behaviour that may change in response guarantees increases when interest rates fall, equity to changes in market risk.
markets fall or market volatility increases.
In The sensitivity of the net profit after tax of addition, when determined by reference to a HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to the effects of discounted cash flow model in which the discount increases in credit spreads is a fall of US$36 million rate is based on current interest rates, guarantee costs 2008: US$73 million fall.
The sensitivity is increase in a falling interest rate environment.
As a calculated using simplified assumptions based on a consequence of the improved market conditions in one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year 2009, there has been a reduction in these costs, and period.
A confidence level of 99 per cent, consistent hence the Groups counterparty exposure to the with the Groups VAR, has been applied.
Credit guarantees under the reinsurance agreement at spreads experienced some volatility during 2009 but 31 December 2009 was lower than at 31 December generally improved from the high level at the end of 2008.
The sale of these contracts ceased in 2008, 2008. reflecting the adjusted risk appetite of the business.
Group Insurance Head Office includes a Chief Credit risk Credit Risk Officer reporting to the Chief Risk Audited Officer.
Each regional insurance unit includes an Credit risk can give rise to losses through default individual responsible for credit risk.
and can lead to volatility in income statement and The exposure to credit risk products and the balance sheet figures through movements in credit management of the risks associated with credit spreads, principally on the US$40.5 billion 2008: protection products are included in the description of US$33.2 billion non-linked bond portfolio.
The life and non-life insurance risk on pages 268 to 269. exposure of the income statement to the effect of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are changes in credit spreads is small see the table responsible for the credit risk, quality and above.
52 per cent of the financial assets held by performance of their investment portfolios.
insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held to Investment credit mandates and limits are set by the maturity or available for sale, and consequently any subsidiaries and approved by their local insurance changes in the fair value of these financial ALCOs and Credit Risk functions before being 277
