HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs Third-party sponsored SPEs Other off-balance sheet Footnotes Third-party sponsored SPEs Other off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, Financial guarantees, letters of credit and conduits and securitisations under normal banking similar undertakings arrangements on standard market terms.
These Note 39 on the Financial Statements describes exposures are quantified below.
various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such HSBCs commitments under liquidity facilities to arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms third-party SIVs, conduits and securitisations of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as Commitfor on-balance sheet credit advances and, where ments Drawn necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are US$bn US$bn included in Other provisions.
At 31 December 2009 Third-party conduits............ 1.3 0.3 Third-party securitisations... 0.7 0.1 Commitments to lend 2.0 0.4 Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 39 on the Financial Statements.
The majority by value of At 31 December 2008 undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines Third-party conduits............ 1.1 0.1 Third-party securitisations... 0.6 0.1 on personal credit cards, advised overdraft limits and other pre-approved loan products, and 1.7 0.2 mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC generally has the right to change or Other exposures to third-party SIVs, conduits and terminate any conditions of a personal customers securitisations where a liquidity facility has been overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon provided notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate At 31 December commitments to lend, in most cases HSBCs 2009 2008 position will be protected through restrictions on US$bn US$bn access to funding in the event of material adverse Derivative assets.................. 0.1 change.
Leveraged finance transactions Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBCs intention to sell the loan after origination.
Further information is provided on page 165.
