HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Operational risk Legal risk Group security Pension risk Reputational risk Residual values Legal risk Unaudited Unaudited 2009 2008 Each operating company is required to implement US$m US$m procedures to manage legal risk that conform to Within 1 year........................... 21 108 HSBC standards.
Legal risk falls within the Between 1-2 years.................... 233 59 definition of operational risk and includes Between 2-5 years.................... 1,347 530 contractual risk, dispute risk, legislative risk and More than 5 years.................... 792 1,549 non-contractual rights risk.
Total exposure......................... 2,393 2,246 Contractual risk is therisk that the rights and or obligations of an HSBC company within a Operational risk contractual relationship are defective.
Unaudited Dispute risk is made up of the risks that an Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of the HSBC company is subject to when it is involved Groups business and covers a wide spectrum of in or managing a potential or actual dispute.
Losses arising through fraud, unauthorised activities, errors, omission, inefficiency, systems Legislative risk is the risk that an HSBC failure or from external events all fall within the company fails to adhere to the laws of the definition of operational risk.
jurisdictions in which it operates.
The objective of HSBCs operational risk Non-contractual rights risk is the risk that an management is to manage and control HSBC companys assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others, or an HSBC company operational risk in a cost effective manner infringes another partys rights.
within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with the Groups risk appetite, as HSBC has a global legal function to assist defined by GMB.
management in controlling legal risk.
The function provides legal advice and support in managing A formal governance structure provides claims against HSBC companies, as well as in oversight over the management of operational risk.
respect of non-routine debt recoveries or other A Global Operational Risk and Control Committee, litigation against third parties.
which reports to the Risk Management Meeting, meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and The GMO Legal department oversees the global review the effective implementation of the Groups legal function and is headed by a Group General operational risk management framework.
There are legal departments in 58 of the countries in which HSBC operates.
There are also In each of HSBCs subsidiaries, business regional legal functions in each of Europe, North managers are responsible for maintaining an America, Latin America, the Middle East, and Asiaacceptable level of internal control, commensurate Pacific.
with the scale and nature of operations.
They are responsible for identifying and assessing risks, Operating companies must notify the designing controls and monitoring the effectiveness appropriate legal department immediately any of these controls.
The operational risk management litigation is either threatened or commenced against framework helps managers to fulfil these HSBC or an employee.
The appropriate regional responsibilities by defining a standard risk legal department must be immediately advised and assessment methodology and providing a tool for must in turn immediately advise the GMO Legal the systematic reporting of operational loss data.
department of any action by a regulatory authority, where the proceedings are criminal, or where the A centralised database is used to record the claim might materially affect the Groups reputation.
results of the operational risk management process.
Further, any claims which exceed US$1.5 million or Operational risk self-assessments are input and equivalent must also be advised to the appropriate maintained by the business unit.
To ensure that regional legal department and the regional legal operational risk losses are consistently reported and department must immediately advise the GMO Legal monitored at Group level, all Group companies are department if any such claim exceeds US$5 million.
required to report individual losses when the net loss All such matters are then reported to the Risk is expected to exceed US$10,000.
Management Meeting of the GMB in a monthly Further details of the HSBC approach to paper.
Operational Risk Management can be found in the Group pillar 3 disclosures.
