HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value All net positions in non-derivative financial market participant that are not incorporated within instruments, and all derivative portfolios, are valued the valuation model.
The magnitude of fair value at bid or offer prices as appropriate.
Long positions adjustments depends upon many entity-specific are marked at bid prices: short positions are marked factors, including modelling sophistication, the at offer prices.
nature of products traded, and the size and type of risk exposures.
For this reason, fair value The fair value of a portfolio of financial adjustments may not be comparable across the instruments is calculated as the product of the banking industry.
number of units and its quoted price and no block discounts are applied.
HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either risk-related or model-related.
They form part of Fair value adjustments the portfolio fair value and are incorporated within the balance sheet values of the product types to The valuation models applied for level 2 and level which they have been applied.
The majority of these 3 assets incorporate assumptions that HSBC adjustments relate to Global Banking and Markets.
believes would be made by a market participant to The magnitude and types of fair value adjustment establish fair value.
transactions with monoline insurers, which did not Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do result in any material gain or loss being recognised not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or in the income statement.
It also reflected lower OTC losses within the income statement.
For example, derivative counterparty exposures, resulting from the following enhancement of a model to incorporate an tightening of credit spreads, the steepening of yield additional factor, the model value will have changed curves and the recovery in equity markets during the and so the fair value adjustment in respect of that year, offset by increased probability of counterparty factor will no longer be required.
position is unwound at a price inclusive of the fair value adjustment, then the fair value adjustment base Risk-related adjustments will decrease, but no profit or loss will result.
Risk-related adjustments are driven, in part, by the The major movements occurred in the bid-offer magnitude of HSBCs market or credit risk and credit risk adjustment categories.
The reduction exposure, and by external market factors, such as the of US$283 million in the bid-offer adjustment in size of market spreads.
2009 largely reflected decreasing market bid-offer spreads as the market stabilised following the Bid-Offer turmoil seen in the latter part of 2008.
IAS 39 requires that portfolios are marked at bid or The reduction of US$486 million in the credit offer, as appropriate.
Bid prices represent the price at risk adjustment in 2009 reflected the release of which a long position could be sold and offer prices 168
