HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 on arms length terms and conditions.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
d Determination of fair value All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
In the normal course of business, the fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the financial instrument, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value.
When unobservable market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the valuation model from the transaction price is not recognised immediately in the income statement but is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, or when the inputs become observable, or the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
When independent prices are not available, fair values are determined by using valuation techniques which refer to observable market data.
These include comparison with similar instruments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Fair values of financial instruments may be determined in whole or in part using valuation techniques based on assumptions that are not supported by prices from current market transactions or observable market data, where current prices or observable market data are not available.
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their valuations, including interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates.
If there are additional factors that are not incorporated within the valuation model but would be considered by market participants, further fair value adjustments are applied to model calculated fair values.
These fair value adjustments include adjustments for bid-offer spread, model uncertainty, credit risk and model limitation.
Where a financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market and it is part of a portfolio, the fair value of the portfolio is calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price and no block discounts are made.
If the fair value of a financial asset measured at fair value becomes negative, the financial instrument is recorded as a financial liability until the fair value becomes positive, at which time the financial instrument is recorded as a financial asset.
The fair values of financial liabilities are measured using quoted market prices where available, or using valuation techniques.
These fair values include market participants assessments of the appropriate credit spread to apply to HSBCs liabilities.
The amount of change during the period, and cumulatively, in the fair value of designated financial liabilities and loans and advances that is attributable to changes in their credit spread is determined as the amount of change in the fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk.
e Reclassification of financial assets Non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in the following circumstances: financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition if the financial asset had not been required to be classified as held for trading may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if there is the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity: and financial assets except financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into another category in rare circumstances.
