HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs SIVs and conduits Quantitative factors hereinafter referred to as the Limited Barion, a term-funding vehicle, were set majority of risks and rewards of ownership.
In up in respect of Cullinan: and Malachite Funding substance: Limited Malachite, a term-funding vehicle, was set up in respect of Asscher.
Cullinan and Asscher HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the retain only residual cash balances to facilitate the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be voluntary liquidation process.
exposed to risks incidental to the activities of the SPE: and At 31 December 2009, all the capital notes in Cullinan and Asscher had been redeemed and HSBC retains the majority of the residual or replaced by capital notes in the new SICs 2008: ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets 8.7 per cent of Asschers capital notes remained in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In a number of cases, these SPEs are accounted for off-balance sheet under IFRSs where HSBC does Conduits not have the majority of the risks and rewards of HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits ownership of the SPE.
However, in certain which issue CP: multi-seller conduits and SICs.
circumstances and after careful consideration of the HSBC has consolidated these conduits from facts, HSBC consolidates an SPE when the inception because it is exposed to the majority of qualitative features of its involvement indicate that, risks and rewards of ownership.
in substance, the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC, even though HSBC Securities investment conduits does not obtain the majority of risks and rewards of ownership.
Solitaire, HSBCs principal securities investment conduit, purchases highly rated ABSs to facilitate HSBC reassesses the required consolidation tailored investment opportunities.
HSBCs other accounting tests whenever there is a change in the SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from substance of the relationship between HSBC and an the restructuring of HSBCs sponsored SIVs as SPE, for example, when the nature of HSBCs discussed above.
involvement or the governing rules, contractual arrangements or capital structure of the SPE change.
Multi-seller conduits The most significant categories of SPEs are discussed in more detail below.
These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of Structured investment vehicles and finance for HSBCs clients, for example, to finance conduits discrete pools of third-party originated trade and vehicle finance loan receivables.
HSBCs principal Structured investment vehicles multi-seller conduits are Regency Assets Limited Structured investment vehicles SIVs are SPEs Regency, Bryant Park Funding Limited LLC which invest in diversified portfolios of interestBryant Park, Abington Square Funding LLC earning assets, generally funded through issues of Abington Square, inactive since March 2008 and commercial paper CP, medium-term notes Performance Trust.
MTNs and other senior debt to take advantage of The multi-seller conduits purchase or fund the spread differentials between the assets in the SIV interests in diversified pools of third-party assets and the funding cost.
Prior to the implementation of financed by issuing CP or drawing advances from Basel II, it was capital efficient to many bank HSBC.
The cash flows received by the conduits investors to invest in highly-rated investment from the third-party assets are used to service the securities in this way.
HSBC sponsored the funding and provide a commercial rate of return for establishment of two SIVs, Cullinan Finance HSBC for structuring, for various other Limited Cullinan and Asscher Finance Limited administrative services, and for the liquidity and Asscher which are now in the process of credit support it gives to the conduits.
The asset voluntary liquidation following completion of the pools acquired by the conduits are structured so that transfer of their portfolios of investment securities the credit enhancement the conduits receive, which and derivatives to the three new structured equates to senior investment grade ratings, and the investment conduits SICs established in 2008 in benefit of liquidity facilities typically provided by order to remove the risk of having to make forced HSBC mean that the CP issued by the multi-seller asset sales.
Mazarin Funding Limited Mazarin, conduits is itself highly rated.
an asset-backed CP conduit, and Barion Funding 182
