Securitisations HSBCs financial investments in off-balance sheet securitisations at 31 December 2009 amounted HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and to US$0.1 billion 2008: US$0.2 billion.
These advances that it has originated, mainly in order to assets include assets which are classified as diversify its sources of funding for asset origination available-for-sale securities and measured at fair and for capital efficiency purposes.
In such cases, the value, and have been securitised by HSBC under loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the arrangements by which HSBC retains a continuing SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities involvement in them.
Further details are provided in to investors to fund the cash purchases.
Credit Note 20 on the Financial Statements.
enhancements to the underlying assets may be used to obtain investment grade ratings on the senior debt HSBCs maximum exposure issued by the SPEs.
HSBC has also established securitisation programmes in the US and Germany The maximum exposure is the aggregate of any where loans originated by third parties are holdings of notes issued by these vehicles and the securitised.
Most of these vehicles are not reserve account positions intended to provide credit consolidated by HSBC as it is not exposed to the support under certain pre-defined circumstances to majority of risks and rewards of ownership in the senior note holders.
HSBC is not obligated to SPEs.
In 2009, demand for the securitised products provide further funding.
HSBCs maximum exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated securitisations amounted to In addition, HSBC uses SPEs to mitigate the US$8.0 billion 2008: US$8.0 billion.
capital absorbed by some of the customer loans and advances it has originated.
Credit derivatives are Other used to transfer the credit risk associated with such customer loans and advances to an SPE, using HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course securitisations commonly known as synthetic of business for a number of purposes, for example, securitisations.
These SPEs are consolidated when structured credit transactions for customers to HSBC is exposed to the majority of risks and provide finance to public and private sector rewards of ownership.
infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance ASF transactions.
Total assets of HSBCs securitisations which are onbalance sheet, by balance sheet classification Structured credit transactions At 31 December HSBC provides structured credit transactions to 2009 2008 third-party professional and institutional investors US$bn US$bn who wish to obtain exposure, sometimes on a Trading assets............................ 0.9 1.3 leveraged basis, to a reference portfolio of debt Loans and advances to customers 35.4 50.8 instruments.
In such structures, the investor receives Other assets................................ 1.4 1.1 returns referenced to the underlying portfolio by Derivatives................................. 1.2 1.4 purchasing notes issued by the SPEs.
HSBC enters 38.9 54.6 into contracts with the SPEs, generally in the form of derivatives, in order to pass the required risks and These assets include US$0.9 billion 2008: rewards of the reference portfolios to the SPEs.
US$1.3 billion of exposure to US sub-prime HSBCs risk in relation to the derivative contracts mortgages.
with the SPEs is managed within HSBCs trading market risk framework see Market risk on Total assets of HSBCs securitisations which are page 250. off-balance sheet In certain transactions HSBC is exposed to risk 2009 2008 often referred to as gap risk.
Gap risk typically arises US$bn US$bn in transactions where the aggregate potential claims HSBC originated assets.............. 0.6 0.6 against the SPE by HSBC pursuant to one or more Non-HSBC originated assets: derivatives could be greater than the value of the term securitisation collateral held by the SPE and securing such programmes......................... 10.5 13.5 derivatives.
HSBC often mitigates such gap risk by 11.1 14.1 incorporating in the SPE transaction features which 189
