HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement if the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements.
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement.
w Provisions Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC: or are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
x Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable.
Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities.
Where it has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract.
This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
y Insurance contracts Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
