HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Policies and procedures Primary sources of funding Liquidity risk management Liquidity and funding branches which do not have access to local deposit Audited markets.
These entities are funded from HSBCs largest banking operations and within clearly defined Liquidity risk is the risk that HSBC does not have internal and regulatory guidelines and limits.
The sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations limits place formal restrictions on the transfer of as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive resources between HSBC entities and reflect the cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing broad range of currencies, markets and time zones of cash flows.
Funding risk a form of liquidity risk within which HSBC operates.
arises when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms HSBCs liquidity and funding management and when required.
process includes: projecting cash flows by major currency under The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding various stress scenarios and considering the management framework is to ensure that all level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto: foreseeable funding commitments can be met when due, and that access to the wholesale markets is monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances co-ordinated and cost-effective.
To this end, HSBC to deposits ratios against internal and regulatory maintains a diversified funding base comprising requirements: core retail and corporate customer deposits and maintaining a diverse range of funding sources institutional balances.
This is augmented with with back-up facilities: wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid assets diversified by currency and maturity which managing the concentration and profile of debt are held to enable HSBC to respond quickly and maturities: smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
managing contingent liquidity commitment HSBC requires its operating entities to maintain exposures within pre-determined caps: strong liquidity positions and to manage the liquidity maintaining debt financing plans: profiles of their assets, liabilities and commitments with the objective of ensuring that their cash flows monitoring depositor concentration in order to are balanced appropriately and that all their avoid undue reliance on large individual anticipated obligations can be met when due.
depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix: and HSBC adapts its liquidity and funding risk management framework in response to changes in maintaining liquidity and funding contingency the mix of business that it undertakes, and to changes plans.
These plans identify early indicators of in the nature of the markets in which it operates.
The stress conditions and describe actions to be Group has continuously monitored the impact of taken in the event of difficulties arising from recent market events on its liquidity positions and systemic or other crises, while minimising has changed customer behavioural assumptions and adverse long-term implications for the business.
assumed asset liquidity characteristics where justified.
The liquidity and funding risk management Primary sources of funding framework will continue to evolve as the Group Audited assimilates knowledge from the recent market Current accounts and savings deposits payable on events, the effects of which are discussed more fully demand or at short notice form a significant part of below.
HSBCs funding, and the Group places considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For Policies and procedures deposits, stability depends upon preserving depositor Audited confidence in HSBCs capital strength and liquidity, The management of liquidity and funding is and on competitive and transparent pricing.
primarily undertaken locally in HSBCs operating HSBC also accesses professional markets entities in compliance with practices and limits set in order to provide funding for non-banking by the Risk Management Meeting RMM.
These subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to maintain a limits vary according to the depth and liquidity of presence in local money markets and to optimise the the market in which the entities operate.
It is HSBCs funding of asset maturities not naturally matched by general policy that each banking entity should be core deposit funding.
In aggregate, HSBCs banking self-sufficient when funding its own operations.
entities are liquidity providers to the interbank market, Exceptions are permitted for certain short-term placing significantly more funds with other banks treasury requirements and start-up operations or for 244
