HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Market risk The table demonstrates that for linked contracts, generate market risk, and the market risk to which HSBC typically designates assets at fair value.
For these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed non-linked contracts, the classification of the assets below.
is driven by the nature of the underlying contract.
Long-term insurance or investment products may incorporate either one investment return The table also shows that approximately guarantee or a combination thereof, divided into the 64.4 per cent of financial assets were invested in following categories: debt securities at 31 December 2009 2008: 62.9 per cent with 22.2 per cent 2008: 19.7 per cent annuities in payment: invested in equity securities.
deferred annuities: these consist of two phases In life linked insurance, premium income less the savings and investing phase and the charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
retirement income phase: HSBC manages the financial risks of this product on annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to behalf of the policyholders by holding appropriate be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be assets in segregated funds or portfolios to which the the return credited to the policyholder every liabilities are linked.
Typically, HSBC retains some year, or the average annual return credited to the exposure to market risk as the market value of the policyholder over the life of the policy, which linked assets influences the fees charged by HSBC may occur on the maturity date or the surrender and thereby affects the recoverability of expenses date of the contract: incurred by the Group in managing the product.
The assets held to support life linked liabilities capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive represented 22.4 per cent of the total financial assets no less than the premiums paid plus declared of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at bonuses less expenses: and the end of 2009 2008: 19.4 per cent.
market performance: policyholders receive an investment return which is guaranteed to be Market risk within a prescribed range of average investment Audited returns earned by predetermined market Insurance and investment products manufactured participants on the specified product.
by HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries Subsidiaries manufacturing products with typically comprise features or combinations of guarantees usually retain exposures to falls in market features which may not be easily or exactly interest rates as they result in lower available replicated by investments.
Market risk arises when yields on the assets bought to support guaranteed mismatches occur between product liabilities and investment returns payable to policyholders.
the investment assets which back them: for example, mismatches between asset and liability yields and The table below shows, in respect of each maturities give rise to interest rate risk.
category of guarantee, the total liabilities to policyholders established for guaranteed products, Description of market risk the range of investment returns net of operating Audited costs implied by the guarantees, and the range of current yields of the investment portfolios supporting The main features of products manufactured by the guarantees.
