Collateral and other credit enhancements Repossessed properties are made available for obtained sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to Audited reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
If excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, HSBC obtained assets by taking possession of they are made available either to repay other secured collateral held as security, or calling upon other lenders with lower priority or are returned to the credit enhancements, as follows: customer.
HSBC does not generally occupy Audited repossessed properties for its business use.
Carrying amount obtained in: Impairment allowances and charges on 2009 2008 US$m US$m loans and advances to customers and banks Nature of assets Audited Residential property..................... 1,587 2,562 Commercial and industrial The tables below analyse by geographical region the property................................... 93 21 impairment allowances recognised for impaired Other............................................ 355 382 loans and advances that are either individually 2,035 2,965 assessed or collectively assessed, and collective impairment allowances on loans and advances classified as not impaired.
Impaired loans and new loan impairment In the UK, higher new loan impairment allowances allowances reflected a small number of large individually assessed impairments against corporate 2009 compared with 2008 and commercial exposures, together with the effects Unaudited of credit quality deterioration in the personal lending Loan impairment charges increased by 3 per cent to portfolio.
In the unsecured portfolios, credit quality US$24.9 billion from US$24.1 billion in 2008.
The declined in the cards and personal loans portfolios commentary on net loan impairment allowances is reflecting the deterioration in the economic on a constant currency basis while the commentary environment.
In the residential mortgage portfolios, on impaired loans is on a reported basis.
credit quality remained strong despite higher unemployment in the UK.
HSBCs exposure to this New allowances for loan impairment charges market remained well secured with typical loan-torose by 7 per cent compared with 2008 to value ratios of below 60 per cent.
Releases and recoveries of allowances increased by 17 per cent to US$1.5 billion.
In Europe, releases and recoveries were Total impaired loans to customers at 31 December US$520 million, a decrease of 5 per cent compared 2009 were US$31 billion, an increase of 21 per cent with 31 December 2008. compared with the end of 2008.
Impaired loans In Hong Kong, new loan impairment remained at 3 per cent of customer loans and allowances were US$548 million, a decline of 12 per advances at 31 December 2009. cent compared with 2008. Credit quality within the In Europe, new loan impairment allowances commercial lending portfolios improved compared increased by 37 per cent to US$4.9 billion in 2009, with 2008, when significant impairments were taken driven by credit quality deterioration in individually on some exporters due to the contraction in global impaired loans.
Impaired loans increased by 59 per trade.
New loan impairment allowances increased in cent to US$10.9 billion at 31 December 2009. the unsecured personal portfolios, reflecting the rise 238 in unemployment and bankruptcy filings.
Impaired lower loan levels reflecting the discontinuance loans were broadly stable at US$846 million.
of vehicle finance originations in July 2008.
In addition, loss severities decreased as prices on In Rest of Asia-Pacific, new loan impairment repossessed vehicles improved: and allowances rose by 18 per cent to US$1.1 billion, mainly due to increased delinquencies on unsecured new loan impairment allowances in the branchlending, particularly in the credit card and personal based Consumer Lending business increased in lending portfolios in India and, to a lesser extent, 2009, primarily in the unsecured portfolio due to in Indonesia.
In the corporate and commercial the deterioration in the 2006 and 2007 vintages portfolios, new loan impairment allowances which were more pronounced in certain increased, reflecting a deterioration in Indias geographic regions and, to a lesser extent, first economic conditions.
Impaired loans increased lien real estate secured loans.
These increases by 44 per cent to US$1.2 billion.
were partially offset by lower new loan impairment allowances for second lien real Releases and recoveries in the Rest of estate secured loans.
Asia-Pacific region rose by 42 per cent to US$214 million at 31 December 2009.
New loan impairment allowances in the Cards and Retail Services portfolios declined due to lower New loan impairment allowances in the Middle outstanding balances and management action taken East increased significantly from a low base, to in the past two years to constrain origination US$1.4 billion.
The increase reflected higher charges activities in riskier segments.
In addition, in the UAE, largely in Dubai, due to a marked impairment provisioning reflects an improved deterioration in credit quality which particularly outlook on future loss estimates as the impact of affected the real estate and construction industries.
higher unemployment rates on losses has not been as Infrastructure projects were delayed or cancelled and severe as initially expected due, in part, to lower fuel unemployment levels increased.
Delinquency rates prices and the boost to cash flow provided by rose as a result, particularly in the credit card and government stimulus programmes that meaningfully personal loan portfolios.
Impaired loans increased by benefit non-prime customers.
In HSBC Bank USA US$1.4 billion to US$1.7 billion.
personal lending portfolios, new loan impairment allowances increased, mainly in prime residential New loan impairment allowances rose by mortgage lending.
7 per cent to US$26.4 billion despite falls of 12 per cent in Hong Kong and 7 per cent in New loan impairment allowances in the North America.
corporate and commercial lending portfolios increased as the weaker economy affected firms in In North America, new loan impairment the commercial real estate and construction sectors allowances declined by 7 per cent to US$15.6 billion in the US.
In Canada, higher new loan impairment against the backdrop of a widespread rise in allowances were primarily against exposures in the unemployment, continued weakness in the US commercial real estate, manufacturing and trade economy and housing markets, higher levels of sectors.
personal bankruptcy filings and portfolio seasoning.
In North America, releases and recoveries This decline was the result of lower loan impairment increased by 14 per cent to US$205 million at charges in the Mortgage Services real estate secured, 31 December 2009 due to an increase in the credit card and vehicle finance portfolios, partially repayment of loans previously impaired in the offset by higher loan impairment charges in the corporate, commercial and financial portfolios.
Apart from the changes made to the write-off period, the Impaired loans decreased by 7 per cent to main contributing factors were as follows: US$13.3 billion at 31 December 2009. new loan impairment allowances in the New loan impairment allowances in Latin Mortgage Services business decreased in 2009 America increased by 18 per cent to US$2.9 billion, as the portfolio continued to run off.
While loss while impaired loans rose by 27 per cent to severities increased compared with 2008, a US$3.0 billion.
The increase in new loan impairment higher percentage of impairment was in respect allowances in Brazil was driven by higher of first lien loans which have less severity than delinquencies, mainly in credit cards, overdrafts and second lien loans: payroll loans, due to higher unemployment.
In the commercial portfolio, higher new loan impairment new loan impairment allowances in the vehicle allowances reflected the challenging economic finance loan portfolio decreased as a result of 239 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Impaired loans 2008 HSBC Holdings Risk elements environment which particularly affected the business Releases and recoveries in Europe declined by banking and mid-market business segments.
27 per cent, driven by the deterioration in economic conditions.
Releases and recoveries in Latin America increased by 56 per cent to US$391 million at In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges 31 December 2009. more than doubled from a low base, driven by deterioration in credit quality in the commercial For an analysis of loan impairment charges and portfolio in the second half of the year as the other credit risk provisions by customer group, see economy and trade flows weakened.
Residential page 35. mortgage lending continued to be well secured, as regulatory restrictions constrained origination loan- 2008 compared with 2007 to-value ratios to below 70 per cent.
Impaired loans Unaudited increased from a low base to US$852 million at Loan impairment charges increased by 40 per cent to 31 December 2008.
US$24.1 billion from US$17.2 billion in 2007.
The In Rest of Asia-Pacific, new loan impairment commentary that follows is on a constant currency charges rose to US$975 million, primarily in India basis.
due to a combination of rising delinquency rates in New allowances for loan impairment charges consumer lending as credit conditions deteriorated, rose by 37 per cent compared with 2007.
and recoveries of allowances declined by 10 per cent In the Middle East, new loan impairment to US$1.4 billion.
Impaired loans were 3 per cent of charges rose from a low base to US$340 million, due customer loans and advances at 31 December 2008, to rising delinquencies as growth rates declined and compared with 2 per cent at 31 December 2007. the property market slowed as economic conditions In Europe, new loan impairment charges were weakened because of lower oil and gas prices.
US$4.0 billion, a rise of 24 per cent compared with New loan impairment charges in North America 2007.
Impaired loans increased by 32 per cent to rose by 37 per cent to US$16.8 billion, driven by the US$6.8 billion at 31 December 2008. continued deterioration in credit quality in the HSBC Loan impairment charges increased in Global Finance loan portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in Banking and Markets following a significant charge HSBC USA.
Impaired loans increased by 49 per cent against a single European commercial real estate to US$14.3 billion at 31 December 2008. corporate customer.
Impairment charges against US credit quality showed significant banks rose in the UK due to exposure to the deterioration across the portfolio, driven by the Icelandic banks in 2008.
New loan impairment continued weakness of the US economy.
The reasons charges rose in Turkey as delinquency rates behind the deterioration in US credit quality, the increased across credit cards, personal loans and effects on the US personal lending portfolio and corporate lending in light of the deteriorating actions taken as a result are discussed in more detail economic environment.
Partly offsetting the effect of the charges on the commercial portfolio rose in the UK, deterioration was a reduction in overall lending as particularly in the final quarter of 2008 as the HSBC continued to reduce its exposure in the US.
weakening property market led to higher impairment charges against construction companies and In Commercial Banking, impairment charges businesses dependent upon the real estate sector.
In rose from a low base driven by deterioration in the France, the impact of declining commercial credit commercial real estate loan book in the US, and quality more than offset lower balances.
Impairment higher impairment charges against firms in the allowances against firms in the financial sector rose manufacturing, export and commercial real estate due to exposure to a single asset management firm in sectors in Canada.
Higher impairment charges in the UK.
Credit quality in the UK personal lending Global Banking and Markets reflected weaker credit portfolio remained broadly stable, reflecting the fundamentals in the US in 2008.
Impairment strength of HSBCs loan book in a period of allowances against firms in the financial sector rose significant economic uncertainty.
Mortgage lending due to rising delinquencies, despite government in the UK remained well secured as actions taken intervention.
Credit quality in Releases and recoveries in North America rose the unsecured portfolios of M&S Money, HSBC by 55 per cent to US$180 million.
Bank and Partnership Cards deteriorated slightly in 2008, particularly in the second half of the year, due In Latin America, new loan impairment to the weakening UK economy.
charges rose by 37 per cent to US$2.8 billion.
