HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account which detailed forecasts are available, and to management policies and practices, changes in laws assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of and regulations, and other factors that can affect sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are customer payment patterns.
Different factors are compared with actual performance and applied in different regions and countries to reflect verifiable economic data in future years: the variation in economic conditions, laws and however, the cash flow forecasts necessarily and regulations.
The assumptions underlying this appropriately reflect managements view of judgement are highly subjective.
The methodology future business prospects at the time of the and the assumptions used in calculating impairment assessment: and losses are reviewed regularly in the light of the rate used to discount the future expected differences between loss estimates and actual loss cash flows is based on the cost of capital experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the assigned to an individual CGU, and can have a expected timing of future recoveries are regularly significant effect on the CGUs valuation.
The benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they cost of capital percentage is generally derived remain appropriate.
from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which The total amount of the Groups impairment incorporates inputs reflecting a number of allowances on homogeneous groups of loans is financial and economic variables, including the inherently uncertain because it is highly sensitive to risk-free interest rate in the country concerned changes in economic and credit conditions across a and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the large number of geographical areas.
Economic and business being evaluated.
These variables are credit conditions within geographical areas are subject to fluctuations in external market rates influenced by many factors with a high degree of and economic conditions outside managements interdependency so that there is no single factor to control and are therefore established on the basis which the Groups loan impairment allowances as of significant management judgement and are a whole are sensitive.
However, HSBCs loan subject to uncertainty.
impairment allowances are particularly sensitive to When this exercise demonstrates that the general economic and credit conditions in North expected cash flows of a CGU have declined and or America.
For example, a 10 per cent increase in that its cost of capital has increased, the effect is to impairment allowances on collectively assessed reduce the CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
loans and advances in North America would increase If this is lower than the carrying value of the CGU, loan impairment allowances by US$1.3 billion at a charge for impairment of goodwill will be 31 December 2009 2008: US$1.6 billion.
It is recognised in HSBCs income statement for the year.
possible that the outcomes within the next financial year could be different from the assumptions built The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to into the models, resulting in a material adjustment to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market the carrying amount of loans and advances.
In such market conditions, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than Goodwill impairment annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described current market conditions and managements best in Note 2p on the Financial Statements.
Note 22 on estimate of future business prospects.
the Financial Statements lists the Groups cash generating units CGUs by geographical region During 2009, no impairment of goodwill was and global business.
Total goodwill for the Group identified 2008: US$10.6 billion.
In addition to amounted to US$23 billion as at 31 December 2009 the annual impairment test which was performed as 2008: US$22 billion.
at 1 July 2009, HSBC reviewed the current and expected performance of the CGUs as at The process of identifying and evaluating 31 December 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment is inherently uncertain because indication of potential impairment of the goodwill it requires significant management judgement in allocated to them.
However, in the event of a making a series of estimations, the results of which significant deterioration in economic and credit are highly sensitive to the assumptions used.
The conditions compared with those reflected by review of goodwill impairment represents management in the cash flow forecasts for the CGUs, managements best estimate of the factors below: a material adjustment to a CGUs recoverable amount the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive may occur which may result in the recognition of an to the cash flows projected for the periods for impairment charge in the income statement.
