Restricted Share awards Awards of Restricted Shares are made to employees on the basis of their performance, potential and retention requirements, to aid recruitment or as a part-deferral of annual bonuses.
Shares are awarded without corporate performance conditions and generally vest between one and three years from the date of award, providing the employees have remained continually employed by HSBC for this period.
Share options A small number of discretionary share options were granted in 2005 under the HSBC Share Plan rules, after the expiry of the Group Share Option Plan rules.
The options granted in 2005 were awarded exclusively to individuals employed by HSBC France.
Nil-cost share options were granted to senior executives on the basis of their performance in the previous year.
The share options were subject to the achievement of the same corporate performance conditions as the 2005 Performance Share awards, which consisted of an absolute earnings per share measure and a TSR measure based on HSBC Holdings ranking against a comparator group of 28 major banks.
The options vested after three years in the same proportion as the 2005 Performance Shares but were only exercisable up to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
These options have now lapsed and there are currently no options with outstanding performance conditions.
Additionally, share options were awarded to a number of employees under the HSBC Share Plan rules.
These options may vest after three years and are exercisable up to the tenth anniversary of the date of the grant, after which they will lapse.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 5.8 years 2008: 2.1 years.
The exercise price of options outstanding at the balance sheet date was 7.99 2008: 8.79 9.17.
Savings-related share option plans Savings-related share option plans invite eligible employees to enter into savings contracts to save up to 250 per month or its equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
The aim of the plans is to align the interests of all employees with the creation of shareholder value.
The options are exercisable within three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract or within six months following either the third or the fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or five-year savings contracts, respectively.
The exercise price is set at a 20 per cent 2008: 20 per cent discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount is applied.
