HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued HSBC performance and context Achievements Risk management Executive directors remuneration Salary Within this market context, HSBC did not need the significant reduction in the Groups own taxpayers money and its overall financial and noncredit spread: and financial performance was strong relative to its decisive management initiatives taken to address peers.
This was evident in consistently favourable the causes of the disappointing performances in assessments of HSBCs corporate and management certain personal and commercial portfolios in structure and its liquidity framework in regulatory Latin America and the Middle East.
policy initiatives which explored why some banks fared better than others during the crisis.
HSBCs Key non-financial achievements of the Group in share price since the announcement of its 2008 2009, which reference the objectives set for senior results has more than doubled and HSBC has management in their relevant balanced scorecard returned to being the most valuable bank, in terms of categories, are summarised below: market capitalisation, outside mainland China.
process objectives focused on efficiency and qualitative measures which, in turn, affect Key achievements financial performance and mitigate risk.
The The annual financial objectives the Group set itself Group met the target it set for operational losses for 2009 were achieved, although in some areas they as a percentage of revenue and embedded the were below the longer-term targets established.
In HSBC Risk Appetite Framework, establishing the Groups 2009 performance, particular note was the nature and quantum of risks which the made of the following: Group is prepared to accept in undertaking its activities.
The overall management of risk the strengthening of the Groups tier 1 ratio by mitigation was judged to be strong: 250 basis points to 10.8 per cent, exceeding the target range: progress in meeting customer recommendation and brand health targets was mixed in a the maintenance of a highly liquid balance sheet challenging environment for retail and with the ratio of advances to deposits ending commercial banking.
The Group met its brand below 80 per cent, notwithstanding the impact health target for Personal Financial Services and on profit of the low interest rate environment: customer penetration targets for wealth the reduction in loan impairment charges in insurance, but narrowly missed the brand health the US consumer finance business and the target for Commercial Banking.
Customer contribution to that reduction made by recommendation targets were not met: and managements decisions to curtail origination regarding the Groups human capital, HSBC activity progressively from 2007 then finally exceeded its 2009 employee engagement target close the Consumer Lending branch network as measured in its Global People Survey, in 2009: improved on the 2008 score, and exceeded the the broad base of strong performances within global financial sector and global norms scores the Global Banking and Markets business, for employee engagement in 2009.
The target consistent with its continuing strategy: for the ratio of revenue to staff costs was also met.
the successful and accelerated wind-down of the legacy exit portfolios of asset-backed and Management of risk structured credit exposures in the Global Banking and Markets business: Since 2008, the Groups Risk function has been involved in the approval of relevant incentive plans.
recovery in shareholders equity in line with Within the Groups wholesale businesses, where expectations, as the available-for-sale portfolio appropriate, specific conditionality has been applied in the Global Banking and Markets business to the release of Restricted Shares awarded by way recovered value: of deferred bonuses.
From 2009, the concept of the resilient performance of HSBC in Hong imputing the cost of capital in the determination of Kong, notwithstanding it is a market bonus funding was being expanded progressively significantly affected by the low interest rate across HSBC, starting with the Groups Global environment: Banking and Markets business.
effective cost control reflected in the underlying The Groups deferral policy for 2009 is cost reduction of 4 per cent excluding the compliant with the Financial Services Authority and goodwill impairment charge in 2008: the Financial Stability Board guidelines.
Vesting of Restricted Shares may be subject to forfeiture claw 336
