If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in Interests in associates and joint ventures and is not tested separately for impairment.
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
ii Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where: intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually.
This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is performed at the same time every year.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year: and intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life.
The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within Net fee income.
For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business see Note 2y.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor are stated at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years.
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement in the period of change.
Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation techniques.
