holding MBSs or other ABSs in the trading Accounting policies portfolio hedged through credit derivative Audited protection, typically purchased from monolines, HSBCs accounting policies regarding the with the intention of earning the spread classification and valuation of financial instruments differential over the life of the instruments: and are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 originating leveraged finance loans for the Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 purposes of syndicating or selling them down in Financial Instruments: Recognition and order to generate a trading profit and holding Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the them in order to earn interest margin over their Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and lives.
estimation in respect of valuation of financial instruments as described on page 63.
These activities are not a significant part of Global Banking and Markets business, and Global Nature and extent of HSBCs Banking and Markets is not reliant on them for any exposures material aspect of its business operations or Audited profitability.
This section contains information on HSBCs The purchase and securitisation of US mortgage exposures to the following: loans and the secondary trading of US MBSs, which was conducted in HSBCs US MBSs business, was direct lending held at fair value through profit or discontinued in 2007. loss: ABSs including MBSs and CDOs: Special purpose entities monolines: HSBC enters into certain transactions with customers in the ordinary course of business which credit derivative product companies CDPCs : involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate and customer transactions.
SPEs are used in HSBCs leveraged finance transactions.
business in order to provide structured investment opportunities for customers, facilitate the raising MBSs are securities that represent interests in a of funding for customers business activities, or group of mortgages.
Investors in these securities diversify HSBCs sources of funding and or have the right to cash received from future mortgage improve capital efficiency.
payments interest and or principal.
Where an MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the The use of SPEs in this way is not a significant MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on Consequently, an MBS with both sub-prime and the use of SPEs for any material part of its business Alt-A exposures is classified as sub-prime.
Detailed disclosures of HSBCs sponsored SPEs are provided on page 181.
CDOs are securities in which ABSs and or other related assets have been purchased and securitised Risk management by a third-party, or securities which pay a return Audited which is referenced to those assets.
CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets The effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs where these are part of the underlying assets or risk exposures, the way in which HSBC has reference assets.
As there is often uncertainty managed risk exposures in this context, and any surrounding the precise nature of the underlying changes made in HSBCs risk management polices collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by and procedures in response to the market conditions residential mortgage-related assets, irrespective of are set out in the following sections: the level of sub-prime assets referenced or contained Credit Risk Credit exposure see page 206 : therein, are classified as sub-prime.
Liquidity risk The impact of market turmoil HSBCs holdings of ABSs and CDOs, and its on the Groups liquidity risk position see direct lending positions, include the following page 248 : and categories of collateral and lending activity: Market risk The impact of market turmoil on market risk see page 252.
157 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Overview of exposure Nature and extent of exposures sub-prime: loans to customers who have other mortgage-related assets: residential limited credit histories, modest incomes, high mortgage-related assets that do not meet any of debt-to-income ratios or have experienced credit the classifications described above.
Prime problems caused by occasional delinquencies, residential mortgage-related assets are included prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other creditin this category.
For US mortgages, standard US HSBCs exposure to non-residential mortgagecredit scores are primarily used to determine related ABSs and direct lending includes: whether a loan is sub-prime.
US Home Equity Lines of Credit HELoCs are classified as commercial property mortgage-related sub-prime.
For non-US mortgages, management assets: MBSs with collateral other than judgement is used to identify loans with similar residential mortgage-related assets: risk characteristics to sub-prime, for example, leveraged finance-related assets: securities UK non-conforming mortgages see below : with collateral relating to leveraged finance US Home Equity Lines of Credit: a form of loans: revolving credit facility provided to customers, student loan-related assets: securities with which is supported by a first or second lien collateral relating to student loans: and charge over residential property.
Global Banking and Markets holdings of HELoCs are other assets: securities with other receivableclassified as US sub-prime residential mortgage related collateral.
assets: Included in the tables on pages 159 to 161 are US Alt-A: loans classified as Alt-A are regarded ABSs which are held through SPEs that are as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share consolidated by HSBC.
Although HSBC higher risk characteristics than lending under consolidates these assets in full, the risks arising fully conforming standard criteria.
US credit from the assets are mitigated to the extent of thirdscores, as well as the level and completeness of party investment in notes issued by those SPEs.
For mortgage documentation held such as whether a description of HSBCs holdings of and there is proof of income, are considered when arrangements with SPEs, see page 181. determining whether an Alt-A classification is The exposure detailed in the table on page 159 appropriate.
Mortgages in the US which are not includes long positions where risk is mitigated by eligible to be sold to the major government specific credit derivatives with monolines and other sponsored mortgage agencies, Ginnie Mae financial institutions.
These positions comprise: Government National Mortgage Association, Fannie Mae the Federal National Mortgage residential MBSs with a carrying amount of Association and Freddie Mac the Federal US$1.0 billion 2008: US$0.9 billion : Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, are residential MBS CDOs with a carrying amount classified as Alt-A if they do not meet the of US$15 million 2008: US$39 million : and criteria for classification as sub-prime: ABSs other than residential MBSs and US Government agency and US Government MBS CDOs with a carrying amount of sponsored enterprises mortgage-related US$9.2 billion 2008: US$9.8 billion.
assets: securities that are guaranteed by US Government agencies, such as Ginnie Mae, or In the tables on pages 160 to 161, carrying are guaranteed by US Government sponsored amounts and gains and losses are given for securities entities, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: except those where risk is mitigated through specific credit derivatives with monolines, as detailed above, UK non-conforming mortgage-related assets: with a total carrying amount of US$10.2 billion UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending 2008: US$10.7 billion.
The counterparty credit risk criteria.
This includes instances where the arising from the derivative transactions undertaken normal level of documentation has not been with monolines is covered in the monoline exposure provided for example, in the case of selfanalysis on page 163. certification of income, or where increased risk factors, such as poor credit history, result in lending at a rate that is higher than the normal lending rate.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 165.
161 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Overview of exposures Significant movements Monolines Analysis of exposures and significant US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets movements During 2009, spreads on Alt-A mortgage-related The majority of the reduction in the holdings of ABS assets tightened modestly from the levels seen in resulted from the disposal of securities issued by 2008 and no further deterioration was experienced in government sponsored entities.
Further reductions the second half of 2009.
Further impairments of arose largely as a result of principal repayments.
US$1,372 million 2008: US$510 million were recorded in respect of Alt-A mortgage-related assets Sub-prime residential mortgage-related as losses were incurred under the current accounting assets rules described in the paragraph above, without reference to the amount of expected loss.
The Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets expectation of losses in the underlying assets did not included US$3,746 million 2008: increase from that at 31 December 2008.
Of the US$5,894 million relating to US originated assets impairment above, US$346 million 2008: and US$1,141 million 2008: US$1,100 million US$281 million occurred in the SICs and was borne relating to UK non-conforming residential mortgageby the capital note holders.
Of the non-high grade assets held of US$1,712 million, US$1,604 million 2008: During the first half of 2009, the credit ratings US$1,426 million related to US originated assets, on a proportion of ABSs held directly by HSBC, reflecting the higher quality of the UK originated Solitaire and the SICs were downgraded.
particular, Moodys Investor Services downgraded the ratings on substantially all the Groups holdings A modest increase in observable values of subof US Alt-A residential MBSs issued in 2006 and prime assets took place in 2009.
The downgrade of assets is reflected in the impairment of US$559 million on assets classified as disclosure of fair value movements in the above available for sale was recognised in 2009 2008: tables as if the downgrade had taken effect on US$50 million as losses were incurred under 1 January 2009. current accounting impairment rules which require the full fair value deficit to be recognised when The following table shows the vintages of the objective evidence of impairment as a result of a loss collateral assets supporting HSBCs holdings of US event has an impact on the estimated future cash sub-prime and Alt-A MBSs.
Market prices for these flows of the instrument, without reference to the instruments generally incorporate higher discounts amount of the expected loss.
The expectation of for later vintages.
The majority of HSBCs holdings losses on the underlying assets did not increase from of US sub-prime MBSs are originated pre-2007: that at 31 December 2008.
Of the impairment above, holdings of US Alt-A MBSs are more evenly US$312 million 2008: nil occurred in the SICs and distributed between preand post-2007 vintages.
was borne by the capital note holders.
US Government agency and sponsored Other residential mortgage-related assets enterprises mortgage-related assets The majority of other residential mortgage-related During 2009, HSBC reduced its holdings of US assets were originated in the UK 2009: Government agency and sponsored enterprises US$4,744 million: 2008 US$4,568 million.
No mortgage-related assets by US$7,862 million.
impairments were recognised in respect of these UK 162 originated assets in 2009 2008: nil, reflecting credit transactions, mainly credit default swaps CDSs.
support within the asset portfolio.
HSBC entered into these CDSs primarily to purchase credit protection against securities held at the time Commercial property mortgage-related within the trading portfolio.
assets During 2009, the notional value of derivative Of the total of US$9,954 million 2008: contracts with monolines and HSBCs overall credit US$9,232 million of commercial property exposure to monolines decreased as a number of mortgage-related assets, US$4,292 million related to transactions were commuted, others matured, and US originated assets 2008: US$3,182 million.
The table below sets out the Spreads tightened on both US and non-US fair value, essentially the replacement cost, of the commercial property mortgage-related assets during remaining derivative transactions at 31 December 2009.
Impairments of US$88 million 2008: nil 2009, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS were recognised in 2009 as losses on the underlying protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective assets accelerated.
because, for example, the monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations.
In order to further Leveraged finance-related assets analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased is shown subdivided between those monolines that The majority of assets related to US originated were rated by Standard & Poors S&P at BBB exposures: almost all 2009: 94 per cent: 2008: or above at 31 December 2009, and those that were 99 per cent were high grade with no impairments below BBB BBB is the S&P cut-off for an recorded in the year 2008: nil.
As a result of the downgrade of a number of monolines during 2009, Student loan-related assets exposure to monolines rated below BBB at Holdings in student loan-related assets were 31 December 2009 increased from the position as at US$5,122 million 2008: US$4,963 million.
The Credit risk adjustment impairments were recorded on student loan-related column indicates the valuation adjustment taken by assets in 2009 2008: nil.
HSBC against the net exposures, and reflects HSBCs best estimate of the likely loss of value on Transactions with monoline insurers purchased protection arising from the deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines.
These HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions valuation adjustments, which reflect a measure of the entered into directly with monoline insurers irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have HSBCs principal exposure to monolines is through been charged to the income statement.
a number of over-the-counter OTC derivative HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Net exposure Net exposure Notional before credit Credit risk after credit 19 20 amount risk adjustment adjustment risk adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2009 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above...... 5,623 997 100 897 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB... 4,400 1,317 909 408 10,023 2,314 1,009 1,305 At 31 December 2008 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline investment grade BBB or above...... 9,627 2,829 740 2,089 Monoline sub-investment grade below BBB... 2,731 1,104 752 352 12,358 3,933 1,492 2,441 For footnotes, see page 195.
163 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Overview of exposure Monolines Leveraged finance transactions The above table can be analysed as follows.
US$1,863 million, were held in the loans and HSBC has derivative transactions referenced to receivables category, having been included in the underlying securities with a notional value of reclassification of financial assets described on US$10.0 billion 2008: US$12.4 billion, whose page 153.
At the date of reclassification, the market value at 31 December 2009 indicated a potential value of the assets was US$1,926 million.
The claim against the protection purchased from the reclassification resulted in an accounting asymmetry monolines of some US$2.3 billion 2008: between the CDSs, which continue to be held at fair US$3.9 billion.
On the basis of a credit assessment value through profit and loss, and the reclassified of the monolines, a credit risk adjustment of securities, which are accounted for on an amortised US$1.0 billion has been taken 2008: cost basis.
If the reclassifications had not occurred, US$1.5 billion, leaving US$1.3 billion exposed the impact on the income statement for 2009 would 2008: US$2.4 billion, of which US$0.9 billion is have been an increase in profit of US$5 million recoverable from monolines rated investment grade 2008: decrease in profit of US$115 million.
The amount represents the difference between the provisions taken imply in aggregate that 90 cents in increase in market value of the securities during the dollar will be recoverable from investment grade 2009 and the accretion recognised under the monolines and 31 cents in the dollar from nonamortised cost method in 2009. investment grade monolines 2008: 74 cents and 32 cents, respectively.
HSBCs exposure to direct lending and irrevocable commitments to lend to For the CDSs, market prices are generally not monoline insurers readily available.
Therefore the CDSs are valued based upon market prices of the referenced HSBC has minimal liquidity facilities at securities.
31 December 2009 2008: US$47 million to monolines, all of which were drawn at 31 December The credit risk adjustment against monolines is 2009 2008: US$2 million drawn.
determined by one of a number of methodologies, dependent upon the internal credit rating of the HSBCs exposure to debt securities which monoline.
HSBCs assignment of internal credit benefit from guarantees provided by ratings is based upon detailed credit analysis, and monoline insurers may differ from external ratings.
Within both the trading and available-for-sale For highly-rated monolines, the standard credit portfolios, HSBC holds bonds that are wrapped risk adjustment methodology as described on with a credit enhancement from a monoline.
As the page 170 applies, with the exception that the bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this future exposure profile is deemed to be constant enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile equal to the current market value over the of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, weighted average life of the referenced security, therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities and the credit risk adjustment cannot fall below at 31 December 2009.
For wrapped bonds held in the 10 per cent of the mark-to-market exposure.
trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement has In respect of monolines, where default has either been reflected through the income statement.
For occurred or there is a strong possibility of wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale default in the near term, the adjustment is portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected determined based on the estimated probabilities in equity unless there is objective evidence of of various potential scenarios, and the estimated impairment, in which case the impairment loss is recovery in each case.
reflected in the income statement.
No wrapped bonds were included in the reclassification of financial For other monoline exposures, the credit risk assets described on page 153. adjustment follows the methodology for highlyrated monolines.
However, this methodology is HSBCs exposure to Credit Derivative adjusted to include the probability of a claim Product Companies arising in respect of the referenced security, and applies implied probabilities of default where Credit Derivative Product Companies CDPCs are the likelihood of a claim is believed to be high.
independent companies that specialise in selling credit default protection on corporate exposures.
At 31 December 2009, US$2,566 million OTC derivative exposure to CDPCs became a focus notional value of securities referenced by monoline during the second half of 2008 as corporate credit CDS transactions with a market value of spreads widened, but these exposures reduced during 164 2009 as corporate credit spreads tightened again.
Leveraged finance transactions At 31 December 2009, HSBC had purchased from Leveraged finance transactions include subCDPCs credit protection with a notional value of investment grade acquisition or event-driven US$5.0 billion 2008: US$6.4 billion which had financing.
a fair value essentially, replacement cost of US$0.3 billion 2008: US$1.2 billion, against The following tables show HSBCs gross which a credit risk adjustment a provision of commitments and exposure to leveraged finance US$0.1 billion was held 2008: US$0.2 billion.
transactions arising from primary transactions and At 31 December 2009, 83 per cent of exposure was the movement in that leveraged finance exposure in to CDPCs with investment grade ratings 2008: the year.
HSBCs additional exposure to leveraged 100 per cent.
finance loans through holdings of ABSs from its trading and investment activities is shown in the table on page 159.
Leveraged finance commitments held by HSBC held at amortised cost subject to impairment and were US$6.5 billion at 31 December 2009 2008: are not marked to market, and net gains of US$6.6 billion, of which US$5.9 billion 2008: US$1.2 billion 2008: net losses of US$1.3 billion US$5.8 billion was funded.
were not taken to the income statement in 2009.
As described on page 153, certain leveraged At 31 December 2009, HSBCs principal finance loans were reclassified from held-for-trading exposures were to companies in two sectors: to loans and receivables.
As a result, these loans are US$3.8 billion to data processing 2008: 165
