Gains arising from dilution of interests in In seeking to drive long-term sustainable associates risk-based performance, HSBC emphasises the trend in economic profit ahead of absolute amounts within In 2007, HSBCs associates, Industrial Bank, business units.
The Groups long-term cost of equity Ping An Insurance and Bank of Communications is reviewed annually and for 2009 remained at 10 per in mainland China, Financiera Independencia in cent.
The following commentary on economic profit Mexico and Techcombank in Vietnam issued new is on a reported basis.
shares for which HSBC did not subscribe.
As a consequence of the new monies raised by the The economic loss decreased by US$0.2 billion.
associates, HSBCs share of their underlying assets Profit attributable to shareholders reflected a increased by US$1.1 billion, notwithstanding the significant negative fair value movement in own debt reduction in the Groups interests.
These gains were of US$6.5 billion as credit spreads tightened, presented in the income statement as Gains arising compared with an equivalent gain of US$6.6 billion from dilution of interests in associates, and should in 2008, and the non-recurrence of a goodwill be regarded as exceptional.
impairment charge of US$10.6 billion in 2008.
Average invested capital decreased by 1 per cent.
Economic profit The additional equity raised through the rights issue HSBCs internal performance measures include was offset by the effect of the goodwill impairment economic profit, a calculation which compares the charge at the end of 2008 and losses on structural return on financial capital invested in HSBC by its foreign exchange exposures, the result of a stronger shareholders with the cost of that capital.
prices its cost of capital internally and the difference Economic spread increased by 0.1 percentage between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable points, the result of an increase in return on invested to ordinary shareholders represents the amount capital of 2 per cent and a decrease in the cost of of economic profit generated.
Economic profit capital in dollar terms of 1 per cent compared with generated is used by management as one input in 2008. deciding where to allocate capital and other resources.
