HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Renegotiated loans Credit quality Quarter ended As Ex.
Interest is recorded on renegotiated loans Audited taking into account the new contractual terms following renegotiation.
Restructuring activity is designed to manage customer relationships, maximise collection Renegotiated loans that would otherwise have opportunities and, wherever possible, avoid been past due or impaired totalled US$39 billion at foreclosure or repossession.
Such activities include 31 December 2009 2008: US$35 billion.
The re-ageing, extended payment arrangements, approved largest concentration was in the US and amounted external debt management plans, deferred to US$33 billion 2008: US$31 billion or 86 per foreclosure, modification, loan rewrites and or cent 2008: 89 per cent of the Groups total deferral of payments in the event of a change in renegotiated loans.
The increase was attributable circumstances.
Restructuring is most commonly to the deterioration in credit quality highlighted applied to real estate loans within consumer finance above.
Following restructuring, an overdue consumer account is normally reset from delinquent HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing to current status.
Restructuring policies and practices Unaudited are based on indicators or criteria which, in the HSBC Finance continued to offer a variety of judgement of local management, indicate that account management policies and practices.
repayment is likely to continue.
These policies are Modification occurs when the terms of a loan are kept under continual review and their application modified, either temporarily or permanently, varies according to the nature of the market, the including changes to the rate and or the payment.
product, and the availability of empirical data.
Modification may also lead to a re-ageing of the Criteria vary between products, but typically include account.
In 2009, HSBC Finance modified over receipt of two or more qualifying payments within a 104,000 loans in Consumer Lending and Mortgage certain period or, in the case of HSBC Finance, one Services through the Foreclosure Avoidance and or more, a minimum lapse of time from origination Account Modification programmes, with an before restructuring may occur, and restrictions on aggregate balance of US$14.6 billion.
the number and or frequency of successive restructurings.
Renegotiated loans are segregated The total outstanding balances of real estate from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective secured accounts which have been either re-aged or impairment assessment, to reflect their risk profile.
modified was US$30.2 billion, compared with When empirical evidence indicates an increased US$26.2 billion at the end of 2008.
Two months and propensity to default on restructured accounts, the use over contractual delinquencies on re-aged or of roll rate methodology ensures this factor is taken modified loans was 26 per cent, broadly consistent into account when calculating impairment with the end of 2008.
