back at the sole discretion of the Remuneration His remit includes overseeing HSBCs Global Committee after review by the Committee of all Personal Financial Services, Commercial Banking relevant circumstances.
and Insurance businesses, HSBCs Latin American and African businesses, and most Group functions From 2009, the Group Chief Risk Officer including Corporate Sustainability.
He continues to has provided advice to the Committee on the be based in Hong Kong.
implications of the remuneration policy on risk and risk management.
As discussed in Overall S T Gulliver was appointed Chairman, Europe, principles above, risk mitigation objectives are Middle East and Global Businesses.
In this capacity, included in the balanced scorecard framework.
he has assumed overall responsibility for all HSBCs Economic Profit is also included as a performance businesses across Europe, the Middle East and measure for the long-term incentive Performance Global Private Banking and continues to oversee the Share awards described below.
Global Banking and Markets business.
S T Gulliver has become Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle East Further information relating to the Groups Limited.
He continues to be based in London.
approach to risk management is set out on page 199.
D J Flint has assumed responsibility for Executive Director remuneration Compliance in addition to his existing remit for Finance and Risk.
His title has changed to Chief Salary Financial Officer, Executive Director Risk and Regulation, and his role continues to be based in The Committee reviews salary levels for executive London.
To reflect the significantly increased No increases in salaries were made in 2008 or responsibilities and maintain and reinforce a 2009 other than to reflect promotions to the Board.
collegiate executive team, the salaries for two In September 2009, HSBC announced that the executive Directors have been adjusted from 2010, Group Chief Executive, M F Geoghegan, would equalising the salaries of D J Flint, S T Gulliver and assume responsibility for the Groups strategy.
In addition, with effect from 2010 addition, to underscore that the Groups strategy of the employer pension contribution or executive focusing on emerging markets was most effectively allowance for D J Flint, A A Flockhart and achieved in Asia, HSBCs largest emerging market, S T Gulliver has been equalised at 50 per cent of it was announced that the principal office of the annual basic salary.
Group Chief Executive would be moved to Hong The Committee also approved an increase Kong and, on 1 February 2010, M F Geoghegan to the salary of the Group Chief Executive, would also succeed V H C Cheng as Chairman of M F Geoghegan, in light of the international The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation competitive position and the increased Limited.
These changes have now taken place and responsibilities listed above.
However, M F Geoghegan is now based in Hong Kong.
M F Geoghegan subsequently did not consider it In support of these changes and the relocation of appropriate to accept such an increase at present.
the principal office of the Group Chief Executive, The non-executive Directors have unanimously the Group also made complementary executive agreed that his remuneration, including salary, will management appointments which reflect widened be brought up to internationally competitive levels responsibilities with effect from 1 February 2010. within the next twelve months.
The changes affecting the executive Directors are set No other salary increases are proposed for out below.
V H C Chengs focus is on developing HSBCs The table below shows salaries for 2008, 2009 business in China, and he continues to oversee key and for 2010.
Changes in salaries are applicable mainland China initiatives.
He remains an executive from 1 February 2010.
Director of the Board of HSBC Holdings, continues as Chairman of HSBC Bank China Company Limited and was appointed Chairman of HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited on 21 January 2010.
To complement his new remit, his principal base will move to mainland China from Hong Kong.
A A Flockhart was appointed Chairman Personal and Commercial Banking and Insurance.
