f Consolidation The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations.
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by HSBC.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration given at the date of exchange, together with costs directly attributable to that acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of HSBCs share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases.
In the context of Special Purpose Entities SPEs, the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an SPE: the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPEs operation: HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up an autopilot mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers: HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incident to the activities of the SPE: or HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between HSBC and an SPE.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates.
These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the exception of the Bank of Communications, Ping An Insurance and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 30 September.
These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order to meet the requirements of the Groups reporting timetable.
HSBC has taken into account the effect of significant transactions or events that occur between the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material affect on its results.
g Future accounting developments At 31 December 2009, a number of standards and interpretations, and amendments thereto, had been issued by the IASB, which are not effective for HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings as at 31 December 2009.
Those which are expected to have a significant effect on HSBCs consolidated financial statements and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings are discussed below.
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU A revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations and amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements were issued on 10 January 2008.
The revisions and amendments to the standards apply prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual financial reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The main changes under the standards are that: acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred: 367 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 1 and 2 all consideration transferred, including contingent consideration, is recognised and measured at fair value at the acquisition date: equity interests held prior to control being obtained are remeasured to fair value at the date of obtaining control, and any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement: changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a change of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity: and an option is available, on a  basis, to measure any non-controlling previously referred to as minority interests in the entity acquired either at fair value, or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the net identifiable assets of the entity acquired.
The effect that the changes will have on HSBCs consolidated financial statements and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings will depend on the incidence and timing of business combinations occurring after 31 December 2009.
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted.
IFRS 9 is required to be applied retrospectively.
If the standard is adopted prior to 1 January 2012, an entity will be exempt from the requirement to restate prior period comparative information.
IFRS 9 is subject to EU endorsement, the timing of which is uncertain.
Accordingly, HSBC is unable to provide a date by which it plans to apply IFRS 9.
The main changes to the requirements of IAS 39 are summarised below.
All financial assets that are currently in the scope of IAS 39 will be classified as either amortised cost or fair value.
The available-for-sale and held-to-maturity categories will no longer exist.
Classification is based on an entitys business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
Reclassifications between the two categories are prohibited unless there is a change in the entitys business model.
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if two criteria are met: i the objective of the business model is to hold the financial asset for the collection of the contractual cash flows: and ii the contractual cash flows of the instrument are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets are measured at fair value.
Movements in the fair value of financial assets classified at fair value are recognised in profit or loss, except for equity investments where an entity takes the option to designate an equity instrument that is not held for trading at fair value through other comprehensive income.
If this option is taken, all subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income with no recycling of gains or losses to the income statement.
Dividend income would continue to be recognised in the income statement.
An entity is only permitted to designate a financial asset otherwise meeting the amortised cost criteria at fair value through profit or loss if doing so significantly reduces or eliminates an accounting mismatch.
This designation is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
Financial instruments which contain embedded derivatives are to be classified in their entirety either at fair value or amortised cost depending on whether the contracts as a whole meet the relevant criteria under IFRS 9.
IFRS 9 is the first instalment in the IASBs planned phased replacement of IAS 39 with a less complex and improved standard for financial instruments.
The next steps in the IASBs project will address the classification and measurement requirements for financial liabilities, the impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost and hedge accounting.
The IASB has indicated that it aims to finalise the replacement of IAS 39 by the end of 2010.
In addition, the IASB is working with the US Financial Accounting Standards Board to reduce inconsistencies between US GAAP and IFRS in accounting for financial instruments.
The impact of IFRS 9 may change as a consequence of further developments resulting from the IASBs financial instruments project.
As a result, it is impracticable to quantify the impact of IFRS 9 as at the date of publication of these financial statements.
