HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine value on the balance sheet: fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2009 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings................... 23,212 23,871 11,804 12,670 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings........................... 3,711 3,827 4,042 4,218 Debt securities in issue.................................................... 2,839 3,141 Subordinated liabilities.................................................... 14,406 15,666 14,017 13,940 Special purpose entities HSBC-sponsored SPEs HSBC sponsors the formation of entities which are This section contains disclosures about HSBCdesigned to accomplish certain narrow and wellsponsored SPEs that are included in HSBCs defined objectives, such as securitising financial consolidated balance sheet, with a particular focus assets or effecting a lease, and this requires a form of on SPEs containing exposures affected by the legal structure that restricts the assets and liabilities turmoil in credit markets which began in mid-2007, within the structure to the single purpose for which it and those that are not consolidated by HSBC under was established.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs IFRSs.
In addition to the disclosures about SPEs, when the substance of the relationship indicates information on other off-balance sheet arrangements that HSBC controls them.
In assessing control, all has been included in this section.
relevant factors are considered, including qualitative HSBC enters into certain transactions with and quantitative aspects.
For example: customers in the ordinary course of business which Qualitative factors in substance: involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate or secure customer transactions.
the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to HSBCs specific HSBC structures that utilise SPEs are authorised business needs so that it obtains benefit from the centrally when they are established to ensure SPEs operation.
This might be evidenced, for appropriate purpose and governance.
The activities example, by HSBC providing a significant level of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely of support to the SPE: and monitored by senior management.
HSBCs involvement with SPE transactions is described HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain below.
the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE.
