HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements Note 1 1 Basis of preparation a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2009, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2009 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and its predecessor body.
During 2009, HSBC adopted the following significant standards and amendments to standards: Classification of Rights Issues Amendment to IAS 32, the amendment which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010, with early adoption permitted.
HSBC has elected to adopt the amendment in advance of the effective date and, as required by IAS 8, has applied the amendment retrospectively.
The amendment requires that rights issues, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights issues, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
The offer of rights by HSBC Holdings plc to its shareholders on 20 March 2009 was accounted for as an equity instrument, as required by the amendment, in the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 8, which replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting requires an entity to disclose information about its segments which enables users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of its business activities and the economic environments in which it operates.
HSBCs operating segments are organised into six geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East, North America and Latin America.
Due to the nature of the Group, HSBCs chief operating decision-maker regularly reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region, customer group and global business, and retail businesses by geographical region.
HSBCs IFRS 8 operating segments were determined to be geographical regions because the chief operating decision-maker primarily uses information on geographical regions in order to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance.
IFRS 8 requires segment financial information to be reported using the same measures reported to the chief operating decision-maker for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources to the operating segments and assessing their performance.
Information provided to the chief operating decision-maker of HSBC to make decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments is measured in accordance with IFRSs.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 Revised 2007 aims to improve users ability to analyse and compare information given in financial statements.
The adoption of the revised standard had no effect on the results reported in HSBCs consolidated financial statements or the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
It did, however, result in certain presentational changes in HSBCs consolidated financial statements, including: the presentation of all items of income and expenditure in two financial statements, the Consolidated income statement and the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: and the presentation of the Consolidated statement of changes in equity as a financial statement replaces the previous Equity note on the financial statements.
An amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments.
The most significant additional disclosures required by this amendment in the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings include tables of fair 365
