No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, valuation and actuarial services, services related to litigation, and services related to recruitment and remuneration.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$8.1 million 2008: US$4.8 million: 2007: US$3.4 million by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group.
10 Share-based payments During 2009, US$683 million was charged to the income statement in respect of share-based payment transactions settled in equity 2008: US$819 million: 2007: US$870 million.
This expense, which was computed from the fair values of the share-based payment transactions when contracted, arose under employee share awards made in accordance with HSBCs reward structures.
In April 2009, HSBC Holdings completed a rights issue, details of which are provided in Note 41.
The terms of the share plans have been adjusted based on the theoretical ex-rights price, which was considered to be the most appropriate methodology to reflect the rights issue.
These adjustments are set out in the tables below.
Calculation of fair values Fair values of share options awards, measured at the date of grant of the option award, are calculated using a BlackScholes model.
When modelling options awards with vesting dependent on HSBCs Total Shareholder Return TSR over a period, the TSR performance targets are incorporated into the model using Monte Carlo simulation.
The expected life of options depends on the behaviour of option holders, which is incorporated into the option model on the basis of historic observable data.
The fair values calculated are inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.
