US personal lending credit quality consumer and business sentiment.
The pace of job Unaudited losses eased in the second half of 2009, and this helped the housing market, though the first-time During 2009, challenging economic conditions in the homebuyer tax credit and the low interest rates were US continued, marked by further declines in the the main forces driving up home sales and shrinking housing market, rising unemployment, tight credit inventories of unsold properties.
This resulted in conditions and reduced economic growth.
Although some house price stabilisation in the latter half of the economic recession continued to deepen into 2009, particularly in the middle and lower price the first half of 2009, signs of stabilisation and sector.
improvement began to appear in the second half of the year.
While the ongoing financial market US unemployment rates, which have been a disruption continued to affect credit and liquidity major factor in the deterioration of credit quality in throughout the year, an improvement in conditions the country, were 10 per cent in December 2009, an which began in the second quarter and continued increase of 260 basis points since December 2008. through the rest of the year, strengthened liquidity Unemployment rates in 16 states were greater than and narrowed credit spreads.
The recovery in market the US national average and unemployment rates in confidence stemmed largely from various 10 states were at or above 11 per cent, including government actions taken to restore faith in the California and Florida, with more than 5 per cent of capital markets and stimulate consumer spending, HSBC Finances total loan balances.
221 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest US personal lending Mortgage lending 2009, HSBC Bank USA sold US$4.5 billion of mortgage portfolios to third parties and it continued In line with its exit strategy for non-prime real estate to sell the majority of new mortgage loan secured mortgage lending, HSBC continued to originations to government-sponsored enterprises reduce mortgage lending exposure in the US and and private investors.
Two months or more balances declined from US$96 billion to delinquencies increased from 3.4 per cent to 7.5 per US$78 billion as the portfolios ran off.
cent at 31 December 2009, as delinquency balances Although delinquency increased during 2009, increased from US$0.7 billion to US$1.2 billion, credit quality deteriorated at a slower rate than in while balances declined.
previous years as the effect of higher unemployment In HSBC Finance, loss rates on the sale of was not as severe as expected due to actions foreclosed properties were broadly stable throughout previously taken by HSBC to reduce risk in the 2009 but were higher than those incurred in 2008 loan portfolio.
as house prices continued to fall.
The number of Following the revision of the write-off period properties foreclosed decreased, in part due to delays described on page 205, two months and over in foreclosure proceedings and the lengthening by delinquent balances in the real estate secured certain states of the foreclosure process.
HSBC portfolios of HSBC Finance decreased in dollar continued to assist customers in restructuring their terms but, excluding the effects of the change, they debts to avoid foreclosure, including by modifying rose.
Delinquent balances also increased in HSBC their loans when it was decided that they could be Bank USA.
Increased delinquency reflected portfolio serviced on revised terms.
For further details, see seasoning in an environment of continuing weakness HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing in the housing market and diminished availability of on page 224. refinancing opportunities.
In addition, delays to Second lien mortgage loans have a risk profile foreclosure caused by changes in some state characterised by higher loan-to-value ratios because, government practices and backlogs in court in the majority of cases, the loans were taken out to proceedings resulted in balances that would complete the refinancing or purchase of properties.
otherwise have proceeded to foreclosure remaining HSBC Finance has typically experienced loss on reported as contractually delinquent.
default for second lien loans approaching 100 per Excluding the effects of revising the write-off cent of the amount owing, as any equity in the period: property is initially applied to the first lien loan.
Excluding the effects of the change to the write-off delinquency in the Consumer Lending business period, in the HSBC Finance Mortgage Services increased, primarily in the 2006, 2007 and 2008 second lien portfolio, two months or more vintages of the first lien real estate secured delinquency rates decreased to 17.3 per cent at portfolio.
Two months or more delinquent 31 December 2009 as the portfolio continued to run balances rose from US$5.6 billion in 2008 to off.
In the Consumer Lending second lien portfolio, US$7.4 billion at 31 December 2009, and two two months or more delinquency rates increased to months or more delinquency rates grew from 18.6 per cent at 31 December 2009.
In HSBC Bank 12.1 per cent to 18.2 per cent: USA, second lien two months or more delinquency two months or more delinquent balances in the rates increased from 3.5 per cent at 31 December Mortgage Services portfolio declined from 2008 to 4.0 per cent at 31 December 2009.
US$4.7 billion in 2008 to US$4.5 billion at Stated-income mortgage balances in HSBC 31 December 2009 as the portfolio continued to Finance declined from US$5.7 billion to season, and two months or more delinquency US$3.9 billion as the portfolio continued to run off.
rates increased from 17.0 per cent in 2008 to The decline included US$0.2 million as a result of 19.6 per cent at 31 December 2009 as balances the revised write-off period referred to on page 205. declined at a faster pace than delinquencies.
These mortgages were underwritten on the basis of At HSBC Bank USA, the level of dollar borrowers representations of annual income and delinquency increased within the first lien prime were not verified by supporting documents and, as a residential mortgage and Home Equity mortgage result, represent a higher than average level of risk.
loan portfolios, reflecting the weakened US Two months or more delinquency rates decreased to economy, high unemployment and continued 22.7 per cent at 31 December 2009.
In HSBC Bank deterioration of the US housing market.
Delinquency USA, stated-income balances decreased from rates also rose, in part due to lower balances as US$2.2 billion to US$2.1 billion and delinquency mortgage portfolios were sold to third parties.
In 222 rates increased from 8.7 per cent at 31 December 2009.
The decline of balances in both portfolios was 2008 to 11.1 per cent at 31 December 2009. a result of actions taken to tighten underwriting criteria in order to reduce the risk profile of the Affordability mortgages are those in which the portfolio, lower customer spending and, in the customers monthly payments are set at a low initial private label business, terminate certain unprofitable rate, either fixed or variable, before resetting to a partner relationships.
The decrease in delinquency higher rate once the initial introductory period is balances in both portfolios also reflected higher over.
At 31 December 2009, HSBC Finance had levels of personal bankruptcy filings.
US$10 billion of affordability mortgages, compared with US$14 billion at 31 December 2008, as the Motor vehicle finance portfolio continued to run off.
Excluding the effects of revising the write-off period, in dollar terms, In the vehicle finance portfolio, two months or delinquencies in this portfolio declined during 2009 more delinquencies declined from 5.0 per cent at but, as balances declined at a faster rate, delinquency 31 December 2008 to 4.6 per cent, despite the rates increased.
At HSBC Bank USA, affordability reduction in loan balances, as delinquencies fell at mortgage balances of US$11 billion at 31 December a faster pace.
2009 compared with US$15 billion at 31 December 2008.
Other personal lending In dollar terms, delinquencies in the Consumer Credit cards Lending unsecured portfolio remained lower, despite In the US credit card portfolio, two months or the weakened economic conditions, due to a higher more delinquent balances declined from number of personal bankruptcy filings which US$2.0 billion to US$1.8 billion, while in resulted in accounts moving to write-off more percentage terms they rose from 6.8 per cent at quickly, portfolio seasoning as the portfolio ran 31 December 2008 to 7.4 per cent at 31 December off, and the actions taken previously to tighten 2009 as loan balances declined at a faster pace than underwriting criteria in order to reduce the risk delinquencies.
In the private label cards portfolio, profile of the portfolio.
two months and over delinquent balances declined from US$0.7 billion to US$0.6 billion while US personal lending loan delinquency contractual delinquency increased from 4.0 per cent The table below sets out the trends in two months at 31 December 2008 to 4.1 per cent at 31 December and over contractual delinquencies in the US: Two months and over contractual delinquency Unaudited Quarter ended As Ex.
