within the stress testing scenarios as described on Credit spread risk page 252.
At 31 December 2009, the sensitivity of equity to the effect of movements in credit spreads, based on Non-trading portfolios credit spread VAR, on the Groups available-for-sale Audited debt securities was US$535 million 2008: The principal objective of market risk management US$1,013 million.
The sensitivity was calculated on of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest the same basis as applied to the trading portfolio.
Including the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within HSBCs balance sheet at Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises 31 December 2009, the sensitivity increased to principally from mismatches between the future US$549 million.
This sensitivity is struck, however, yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result before taking account of any losses which would be of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is absorbed by the capital note holders.
At complicated by having to make assumptions on 31 December 2009, the capital note holders would embedded optionality within certain product areas have absorbed the first US$2.2 billion 2008: such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, US$2.2 billion of any losses incurred by the SICs and from behavioural assumptions regarding the prior to HSBC incurring any equity losses.
economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current The notable decrease in this sensitivity at accounts.
The prospective change in future net 31 December 2009, compared with 31 December interest income from non-trading portfolios will be 2008, was due to the effect of lower volatility in reflected in the current realisable value of these credit spreads observed during 2009.
The overall positions, should they be sold or closed prior to credit spread positions within the available-for-sale maturity.
portfolios were lower on 31 December 2009 compared with 31 December 2008.
In order to manage this risk optimally, market risk in non-trading portfolios is transferred to Global Equity securities classified as available Markets or to separate books managed under the for sale supervision of the local ALCO.
This transfer is usually achieved by a series of internal deals between Market risk arises on equity securities classified as the business units and these books.
When the available for sale.
The fair value of these securities behavioural characteristics of a product differ from at 31 December 2009 was US$9.1 billion 2008: its contractual characteristics, the behavioural US$7.3 billion and included private equity holdings characteristics are assessed to determine the true of US$4.0 billion 2008: US$2.5 billion.
Local ALCOs are Investments in private equity are primarily made required to regularly monitor all such behavioural through managed funds that are subject to limits assumptions and interest rate risk positions to ensure on the amount of investment.
Potential new they comply with interest rate risk limits established commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure by GMB.
that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
In certain cases, the non-linear characteristics of Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the products cannot be adequately captured by the risk valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
For example, both the flow from Funds typically invested for short-term cash customer deposit accounts to alternative investment management represented US$0.8 billion 2008: products and the precise prepayment speeds of US$0.9 billion.
Investments held to facilitate mortgages will vary at different interest rate levels, ongoing business, such as holdings in governmentand where expectations about future moves in interest sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges, rates change.
In such circumstances, simulation represented US$1.2 billion 2008: US$1.0 billion.
modelling is used to identify the impact of varying Other strategic investments represented scenarios on valuations and net interest income.
The fair value Once market risk has been consolidated in of the constituents of equity securities classified as Global Markets or ALCO-managed books, the net available for sale can fluctuate considerably.
A exposure is typically managed through the use of 10 per cent reduction in the value of the availableinterest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The VAR for for-sale equities at 31 December 2009 would have these portfolios is included within the Group VAR reduced equity by US$0.9 billion 2008: see Value at risk of the trading and non-trading US$0.7 billion.
For details of the impairment portfolios above.
incurred on available-for-sale equity securities, see 255
