Share options and share awards The Remuneration Committee agreed to make adjustments to all unexercised share options and share awards under HSBCs various share plans and share schemes as a consequence of the rights issue.
The adjustments were based on the theoretical ex-rights price, which was considered to be the most appropriate methodology to reflect the rights issue.
The adjustments under certain share plans and share schemes have been approved by the relevant tax authorities, where necessary.
42 Litigation Unauthorised overdraft charges in the UK On 27 July 2007, the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT issued High Court legal proceedings against a number of UK financial institutions, including HSBC Bank, to determine the legal status and enforceability of certain of the charges applied to their personal customers in relation to unauthorised overdrafts the charges.
Pending the resolution of the proceedings, the Financial Services Authority FSA granted firms including HSBC Bank a waiver enabling them to place relevant complaints about the charges on hold and the County Courts stayed all individual customer claims.
In a judgement given on 25 November 2009, the Supreme Court unanimously allowed the financial institutions appeal against the Court of Appeal ruling given on 26 February 2009 and held that, provided the relevant charges were in plain and intelligible language, the amount of those charges could not be assessed for fairness under the regulations by either the OFT or the Courts.
This is because the charges are part of the price the customer pays for the package of banking services he receives in exchange, and hence an assessment of their amount is outside the scope of the regulations.
While the Supreme Court left open the possibility that the terms could be challenged on some other basis, HSBC Bank does not believe that any other realistic basis for challenge exists.
On 22 December 2009, the OFT announced that, following detailed consideration of the Supreme Court judgement, and discussions with consumer groups, campaigners, banks, the Government, the FSA and the Financial Ombudsman Service, it would not be continuing the investigation it began in March 2007 into the fairness of unauthorised overdraft charges as, were the investigation to continue, it would have a very limited scope and low prospects of success.
The OFT also decided not to investigate the charges using certain other enforcement tools.
Its initial assessment was that there were not good grounds for concluding that a collective challenge alleging breach of such other provisions generally would have good prospects of success.
The OFT also confirmed that it would address its ongoing concerns about the operation of the market for personal current accounts, by discussing the issues with banks, consumer groups and other organisations, with the aim of reporting on progress by the end of March 2010.
The Supreme Court judgement means that the legal proceedings between the OFT and the banks relating to unauthorised overdraft charges are concluded.
Accordingly, the FSA confirmed on 25 November 2009 the waiver enabling firms to place relevant charges complaints on hold had therefore lapsed.
Normal complaint handling rules therefore applied.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC On 11 December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff Madoff was arrested and charged in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York with one count of securities fraud.
That same day, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC filed securities fraud charges against Madoff and his firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, a broker dealer and investment adviser registered with the SEC.
The criminal complaint and SEC complaint each alleged that Madoff had informed senior Madoff Securities employees, in substance, that his investment advisory business was a fraud.
On 15 December 2008, on the application of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York appointed a trustee for the liquidation of the business of Madoff Securities, and removed the liquidation proceeding to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Madoff Securities trustee has begun processing claims filed by investors allegedly damaged by the Madoff fraud.
On 9 February 2009, on Madoffs consent, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a partial judgement in the SEC action, permanently enjoining Madoff from violating certain antifraud provisions of the US securities laws, ordering Madoff to pay disgorgement, prejudgement interest and a civil penalty in amounts to be determined at a later time, and continuing certain other relief previously imposed, including a freeze on Madoffs 467
