identified in available-for-sale debt securities which has evaluated the factors contributing to the losses to had previously been determined not to be impaired, determine whether the factors leading to the losses potentially resulting in the recognition of material are temporary or indicative of a permanent decline in impairment losses in the next financial year.
Managements projections of future taxable Deferred tax assets income in the US are based on business plans, future HSBCs accounting policy for the recognition of capital requirements and ongoing tax planning deferred tax assets is described in Note 2s on the strategies.
These projections include assumptions Financial Statements.
A deferred tax asset is about the depth and severity of house price recognised to the extent that it is probable that future depreciation, assumptions about the US economic taxable profits will be available against which downturn, including unemployment levels and their deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
impact on loan impairment charges, and assumptions The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on about capital support from HSBC.
managements judgements about the probability and Managements forecasts are consistent with sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals the assumption that it is probable that the results of of existing taxable temporary differences and future operations will generate sufficient taxable ongoing tax planning strategies.
income to support the deferred tax assets.
In HSBCs most significant judgements are managements judgement, recent market conditions, around the US deferred tax assets, given the recent which have resulted in losses being incurred in the history of losses in HSBCs US operations.
Net US US over the last three years, will create significant deferred tax assets amounted to US$5.1 billion or downward pressure and volatility regarding the 59 per cent 2008: US$5.1 billion: 72 per cent of profit or loss before tax in the next few years.
To deferred tax assets recognised on the Groups reflect this, the assessment of recoverability of the balance sheet.
deferred tax asset in the US significantly discounts any future expected taxable income and relies to a Recognition of US deferred tax assets is based greater extent on capital support to the US operations on the evidence available about conditions at the from HSBC, including tax planning strategies balance sheet date, and requires significant implemented in relation to such support.
The most judgements to be made by management regarding significant tax planning strategy is HSBCs projections of loan impairment charges and the investment of capital in its US operations to ensure timing of recovery in the US economy.
the realisation of the deferred tax assets.
Further to Managements judgement takes into consideration the implementation of this strategy, an internal the impact of both positive and negative evidence, reorganisation on 31 January 2010 resulted in a including historical financial performance, capital injection that provided substantial support for projections of future taxable income, future the recoverability of the US deferred tax assets.
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, HSBC expects that, with support, its US operations tax planning strategies and the availability of loss will continue to execute their business strategies and carrybacks.
plans until they return to profitability.
If HSBC were The tax losses incurred in HSBCs US to decide not to provide ongoing support, the full operations in 2009 were primarily caused by the high recovery of the deferred tax asset may no longer be level of loan impairment charges which were due to probable and could result in a significant write-off of the current housing and credit market conditions the deferred tax asset which would be recognised as and continued weakness in the general economy, a charge in the income statement.
resulting in high unemployment levels.
