Impaired loans increased by 37 per cent to HSBC Holdings Audited US$2.3 billion at 31 December 2008. Credit risk primarily arises in HSBC Holdings from The most significant increase was in Mexico, transactions with Group subsidiaries and from reflecting higher impairment charges in the credit guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed card portfolio due to a combination of higher by certain Group operations in the normal conduct of average balances from organic expansion and their business.
growing delinquency rates driven by a deterioration in credit quality as the 2006 and 2007 vintages These risks are reviewed and managed within continued to season and move into later stages of regulatory and internal limits for exposures by the delinquency.
Management action to improve the HSBC Global Risk function, which provides highquality of new business included tightened level centralised oversight and management of underwriting, enhanced collection strategies and HSBCs credit risks world-wide.
better managed customer acquisition channels.
The No collateral or other credit enhancements were commercial portfolio in Mexico also experienced held by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions higher impairment charges due to credit quality with subsidiaries.
deterioration among small and medium sized enterprises as the economy weakened.
In Brazil, HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit higher impairment charges were driven by a risk at 31 December 2009 is shown below.
Its combination of balance growth and credit quality financial assets principally represent claims on deterioration in the vehicle finance and payroll loan Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
or more as to interest or principal: and The credit quality of the loans and advances to troubled debt restructurings not included in the HSBC undertakings is assessed as satisfactory risk, above.
with 100 per cent of the exposure being neither past In the following tables, HSBC presents due nor impaired 2008: 100 per cent.
information on its impaired loans and advances in The long-term debt ratings of the HSBC Group accordance with the classification approach issuers of the financial investments are within the described on page 225.
Standard & Poors ratings range of A to A 2008: AA to A.
Impaired loans Loans are classified as impaired when there is Risk elements in the loan portfolio objective evidence that not all contractual cash flows Unaudited will be received.
In accordance with IFRSs, HSBC The disclosure of credit risk elements in this section recognises interest income on assets after they have reflects US accounting practice and classifications.
been written down as a result of an impairment loss.
The purpose of the disclosure is to present within the US disclosure framework those elements of the loan Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more portfolios with a greater risk of loss.
The three main classifications of credit risk elements presented are: Loans that are subject to individual impairment assessment and are over 90 days past due as regards 241 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Risk elements principal and or interest are classified as unimpaired Potential problem loans loans when the Group expects to recover the Credit risk elements also cover potential problem contractual cash flows in full.
These are loans where information on possible credit problems among borrowers causes Troubled debt restructurings management to seriously doubt their ability to The SEC requires separate disclosure of any loans comply with the loan repayment terms.
There are no whose terms have been modified by the lender potential problem loans other than those identified in because of the borrowers financial difficulties, as the table of risk elements set out below, and as a concession that the lender would not otherwise discussed in Areas of special interest on page 214. consider.
These are classified as troubled debt Areas of special interest includes further disclosure restructurings TDRs.
The definition of TDRs about certain homogeneous groups of loans which differs from the definition of renegotiated loans as are collectively assessed for impairment, and disclosed under IFRSs, see page 224, as follows.
represent the Groups most significant exposures to After restructuring, TDRs may continue to be potential problem loans, including ARMs and statedclassified as impaired, as past due but not impaired income products.
Collectively assessed loans and or, where appropriate, as neither past due nor advances, as set out on page 231, although not impaired.
Under IFRSs, disclosure is required of classified as impaired until more than 90 days, are loans that would otherwise have been classified as assessed collectively for losses that have been past due or impaired whose terms have been incurred but have not yet been individually renegotiated.
This policy is further described on page 203.
Furthermore, a loan is no longer classified as a TDR after the end of the first year following the restructuring if the loan performs in accordance with the new terms, and the interest rate at the time of restructuring was a market rate for a loan with comparable risk.
