HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Where more information is available Taxation of shares and dividends HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who are Where more information about liable to UK income tax at the dividend higher rate HSBC is available or additional rate which applies for the tax year This Annual Report and Accounts 2009, and other 2010-11 and subsequent years on UK dividend information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs income currently 32.5 per cent and 42.5 per cent website: www.
are taxed on the combined amount of the dividend and the tax credit.
The tax credit is available for Reports, statements or information that HSBC set-off against the higher rate and additional rate Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange liability.
Individual UK resident shareholders are Commission are available at www.
Investors not entitled to any tax credit repayment.
can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Although non-UK resident shareholders are SEC at the Office of Investor Education and generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
such shareholders may be so entitled under the Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 provisions of a double taxation agreement between 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may their country of residence and the UK.
However, in also obtain the reports and other information that most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, HSBC Holdings files at www.
Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the Taxation of shares and dividends 2008 fourth interim dividend and the first, second Taxation UK residents and third interim dividends for 2009 was set out in the Secretarys letters to shareholders of 31 March, The following is a summary, under current law, of 3 June, 1 September and 1 December 2009.
In the the principal UK tax considerations that are likely case of the 2008 fourth interim dividend, the to be material to the ownership and disposition of difference between the cash dividend foregone and shares.
The summary does not purport to be a the market value of the scrip dividend exceeded comprehensive description of all the tax 15 per cent of the market value.
Accordingly, the considerations that may be relevant to a holder of amount of the dividend income chargeable to tax, shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident in the UK for US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold capital gains tax purposes, was the market value of the shares as investments and who are the beneficial 5.39 per share.
In each other case the difference owners of the shares, and does not address the tax was less than 15 per cent and the price of the shares treatment of certain classes of holders such as was the cash dividend foregone.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers Taxation of capital gains regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares in light of their particular circumstances, The computation of the capital gains tax liability including the effect of any national, state or local arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by laws.
shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for Taxation of dividends example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange an associated tax credit which is available for set-off for shares in other companies.
by certain shareholders against any liability they may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any one-ninth of the cash dividend.
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of indexation For individual shareholders who are resident allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders are in the UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK recommended to consult their professional advisers.
income tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from 480 Inheritance tax Revenue & Customs HMRC now accepts that the charge to SDRT at 1.5 per cent on the issue of shares Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes located within the European Union is prohibited.
of the United States-United Kingdom Double HMRC has invited claims from individuals for Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes repayment for any such tax paid in the last six years.
the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any Taxation US residents US Federal estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the The following is a summary, under current law, of individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of shares the principal UK tax and US federal income tax or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or considerations that are likely to be material to the ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in holder that is a resident of the US for US federal the US and was not a national of the UK, ii is income tax purposes a US holder.
The summary part of the business property of a UK permanent does not purport to be a comprehensive description establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant a UK fixed base of an individual used for the to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the performance of independent personal services.
In summary deals only with US holders that hold shares such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the a credit against US Federal tax liability for the tax treatment of holders that are subject to special amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance insurance companies, dealers in securities or tax and to US Federal estate or gift tax.
currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment including a straddle Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that own, directly or Transfers of shares by a written instrument of indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of payable by the transferee.
which are subject to change.
Under the current An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest income tax treaty between the UK and the US, therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp US holders are no longer entitled to claim a duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the special foreign tax credit in respect of dividends.
However, provided an instrument of Holders and prospective purchasers should transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the consult their own advisers regarding the tax agreement and duly stamped before the date on consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, in light of their particular circumstances, including under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be Any US federal tax advice included in this cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally Annual Report is for informational purposes only: payable by the transferee.
it was not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the penalties.
UKs paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of Taxation of dividends the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the tax is calculated and payment made automatically.
A US holder must include cash dividends paid on the Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer such holder or the ADS depositary receives them, into CREST is itself for consideration.
Following the translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into case pursued by HSBC before the European Court of US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and date of receipt.
A US holder that elects to receive Vidacos Nominees v The Commissioners for HM shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in 481
