The collective impairment allowance is When the portfolio size is small, or when determined having taken into account: information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, the Group uses a historical loss experience in portfolios of similar basic formulaic approach based on historical loss credit risk characteristics for example, by rate experience.
industry sector, risk rating or product segment : Generally, historical experience is the most the estimated period between impairment objective and relevant information from which to occurring and the loss being identified and begin to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In evidenced by the establishment of an circumstances where historical loss experience appropriate allowance against the individual provides less relevant information about the inherent loan: and loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date managements experienced judgement as to for example, where there have been changes in whether current economic and credit conditions economic conditions or regulations management are such that the actual level of inherent losses is considers the more recent trends in the portfolio risk likely to be greater or less than that suggested by factors which may not be adequately reflected in its historical experience.
statistical models and, subject to guidance from Group Finance and GMO Risk, adjusts impairment The period between a loss occurring and its allowances accordingly.
identification is estimated by local management for each relevant portfolio.
In general, the periods used Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of vary between four and twelve months although, in future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against exceptional cases, longer periods are warranted.
actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
The basis on which impairment allowances for Write-off of loans and advances incurred but not yet identified losses is established in each reporting entity is documented and reviewed by Loans are normally written off, either partially or in senior Finance and Credit Risk management to full, when there is no realistic prospect of further ensure conformity with Group policy.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of Homogeneous groups of loans security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there Two methodologies are used to calculate impairment is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, allowances where large numbers of relatively lowwrite off may be earlier.
value assets are managed using a portfolio approach, typically: In the case of residential mortgages and second lien loans in HSBC Finance, loan carrying amounts low-value, homogeneous small business in excess of net realisable value are written off at or accounts in certain countries or territories: before the time foreclosure is completed or when residential mortgages that have not been settlement is reached with the borrower.
If there is individually assessed: no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, unconstrained by delays credit cards and other unsecured consumer required by law or regulation, the loan is normally lending products: and written off no later than the end of the month in motor vehicle financing.
which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due.
When appropriate empirical information is available, the Group uses roll rate methodology.
This Unsecured personal facilities, including credit employs a statistical analysis of historical trends of cards, are generally written off at between 150 and default and the amount of consequential loss, based 210 days past due, the standard period being the end on the delinquency of accounts within a portfolio of of the month in which the account becomes 180 days homogeneous accounts.
Other historical data and contractually delinquent.
Write-off periods may be current economic conditions are also evaluated when extended, generally to no more than 360 days past calculating the appropriate level of impairment due but in very exceptional circumstances exceeding allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain that figure, in a few countries where local regulation highly developed markets, models also take into or legislation constrain earlier write-off, or where the account behavioural and account management trends realisation of collateral for secured real estate revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and lending extends to this time.
