The income statement charge for plans outside the UK was US$760 million 2008: US$678 million: 2007: US$626 million.
This was partly offset by a gain of US$107 million on the UK plans, which included a one-off accounting gain of US$499 million due to a change in the basis of delivering death-in-service, ill health and early retirement benefits for some UK employees.
HSBC has been progressively offering all new employees membership of defined contribution plans.
At 31 December 2009, 59 per cent of HSBCs staff were members of defined contribution plans.
The related pension cost for the year was US$492 million 2008: US$498 million: 2007: US$484 million.
Defined benefit plans cover 29 per cent of HSBCs employees.
For these plans, the long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are: to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term: and to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined benefit plans.
Both HSBC and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees consider that the investment policy should be consistent with meeting their mutual overall long-term investment objectives.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
The majority of the Groups defined benefit plans are funded plans.
The assets of most of the larger ones are held in trusts or similar funds separate from HSBC.
The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which the plans are situated.
The largest plan exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme covers employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC.
This comprises a funded defined benefit plan the principal plan, which is 389 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 8 closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was established in July 1996 for new employees.
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid.
The Trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made.
In 2006, HSBC and the Trustee of the principal plan agreed to change the investment strategy in order to reduce the investment risk.
This involved switching from a mainly equity-based strategy to one based largely on holding bonds and a more diverse range of investments, and included a commitment to undertake a programme of swap arrangements by which the principal plan makes LIBOR-related interest payments in exchange for the receipt of cash flows which are based on projected future benefit payments to be made from the principal plan.
At 31 December 2009, the above strategy remained substantially in place with details of the swap arrangements included in Note 43.
The latest actuarial investigation of the principal plan was made as at 31 December 2008 by C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of Watson Wyatt Limited, a Towers Watson company.
At that date, the market value of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Schemes assets was 10.6 billion US$15.5 billion including assets relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined contribution plan and additional voluntary contributions.
The market value of the plan assets represented 77 per cent of the amount expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, and the resulting deficit amounted to 3.2 billion US$4.7 billion.
The method adopted for this investigation was the projected unit method.
The expected cash flows from the plan were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index RPI swap break-even curve at 31 December 2008.
Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5 per cent per annum above RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a minimum of zero per cent and a maximum of 5 per cent maximum of 3 per cent per annum in respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009, were assumed to be in line with RPI.
The projected cash flows were discounted at the LIBOR swap curve at 31 December 2008 plus a margin for the expected return on the investment strategy of 190 basis points per annum.
The mortality experience of the plans pensioners over the three year period since the previous valuation was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, the mortality assumptions were set based on the SAPS S1 series of tables which best fit the pensioner experience.
Allowance was made for future improvements to mortality rates in line with the medium cohort projections with a minimum improvement rate set at 1.75 per cent for males and 1.25 per cent for females.
390 The payments of 465 million US$754 million to be made in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014 reflect the funding payments agreed following the 2005 triennial actuarial valuation.
HSBC considers that the contributions set out above, together with investment returns at an expected level of 240 basis points above the LIBOR swap curve, would be sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 over the agreed period.
At each subsequent actuarial valuation, HSBC has agreed with the Trustee that any shortfall in investment returns relative to this expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis points per annum, will be eliminated by payment of equal cash instalments over the remaining years to the end of this recovery plan period.
HSBC Bank plc also agreed to make ongoing contributions to the principal plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section members at various rates dependent on the benefit accrual options selected.
The average rate is estimated to be 34 per cent of pensionable salaries less member contributions payable from 1 April 2010 until the completion of the next actuarial valuation, due as at 31 December 2011.
The average rate is reflective of the different membership groups following changes made to the Scheme during 2009.
During 2009, HSBC paid contributions at the rate of 38 per cent of pensionable salaries and will continue contributions at this rate until 31 March 2010.
On 1 July 2009, changes to the design of the defined benefit section of the principal plan were introduced.
This included the introduction of employee contributions, optionality concerning future benefit accrual and, with effect from 1 April 2010, an increased Normal Retirement Age of 65 years.
In addition, enhancements to the defined contribution section were also introduced.
As part of the 31 December 2008 valuation, calculations were also carried out as to the amount of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities if the Scheme was discontinued and the members benefits bought out with an insurance company although in practice this may not be possible for a plan of this size or the Trustee continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC.
The amount required under this approach is estimated to be 19.8 billion US$28.9 billion as at 31 December 2008.
In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent assumption about future mortality was made than for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of UK government bonds.
An explicit allowance for expenses was also included.
In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC Group.
The scheme comprises a funded defined benefit scheme which provides a lump sum on retirement but is now closed to new members and a defined contribution scheme.
The latter was established on 1 January 1999 for new employees.
The latest valuation of the defined benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2008, and was performed by Estella Chiu, fellow of the Society of Actuaries of the United States of America, of HSBC Insurance Asia Limited, a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
At that valuation date, the market value of the defined benefit schemes assets was US$1,072 million.
On an ongoing basis, the actuarial value of the schemes assets represented 103 per cent of the actuarial present value of the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$34 million.
On a wind-up basis, the schemes assets represented 104 per cent of the members vested benefits, based on current salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to US$44 million.
The attained age method has been adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions used in this valuation were a discount rate of 6 per cent per annum and long-term salary increases of 5 per cent per annum.
391 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 8 The HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HSBC USA who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation requirement.
The Retirement Income Plan provides final average pay benefits to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants.
All new employees participate in the cash balance section of the plan.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan was made at 1 January 2009 by Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary and member of the American Academy of Actuaries, and Emily Carlson, Associate of the Society of Actuaries, and member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
At that date, the actuarial value of the plans assets was US$2,429 million.
The assets represented 113 per cent of the benefits accrued to members as valued under the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 that was effective for the plan year beginning 1 January 2008.
The resulting surplus amounted to US$280 million.
The method employed for this valuation was the traditional unit credit method and the discount rate was determined using a full yield curve method, which resulted in an effective interest rate of 8.01 per cent per annum.
In February 2010, HSBC North America announced a plan to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under the final average pay formula components of the HSBC North America US Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 January 2011.
HSBC currently estimates that as a result of these changes, HSBC North America will record a reduction to total pension expense in 2010 of approximately US$13 million and a one-time curtailment gain of approximately US$144 million.
The HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme, and the HSBC North America U. S. Retirement Income Plan cover 34 per cent of HSBCs employees.
HSBC healthcare benefits plans HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded.
The majority of post-employment healthcare benefits plans are defined benefit plans and are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.
Total healthcare cost was US$35 million 2008: US$23 million: 2007: US$34 million.
Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2009, were as follows.
2 Rate of increase for pensions in the UK is for pensions in payment only.
392 The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2008, were as follows.
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Groups obligations under its defined benefit pension and post-employment healthcare plans at 31 December 2007, were as follows.
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA rated or equivalent debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
In countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds, government bond yields have been used.
The yield curve has been extrapolated where the term of the liabilities is longer than the duration of available bonds and the discount rate used then takes into account the term of the liabilities and the shape of the yield curve.
When determining the discount rate with reference to a bond index, an appropriate index for the specific region has been used.
The expected return on plan assets represents the best estimate of long-term future asset returns, which takes into account historical market returns plus additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates.
