HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 14 14 Segmental analysis HSBCs operating segments are organised into six geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East, North America and Latin America.
Due to the nature of the Group, HSBCs chief operating decisionmaker regularly reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region, customer group and global business, and retail businesses by geographical region.
The segmental analysis is presented on a geographical basis because, although information is reviewed on a number of bases, capital resources are allocated and performance is assessed primarily by geographical region.
Also, the economic conditions of each geographical region are highly influential in determining the performance of the different businesses carried out in each region.
As a result, provision of segmental information on a geographical basis provides the most meaningful basis from which to assess performance.
HSBCs chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board.
Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds.
Information provided to HSBCs chief operating decision-maker to make decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, operating segments is measured in accordance with IFRSs.
The financial information shown below includes the effects of intra-HSBC transactions between operating segments which are conducted on an arms length basis and eliminated in a separate column.
Shared costs are included in operating segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
The Middle East is presented as a separate operating segment with effect from 1 January 2009.
Previously, it was included within the Rest of Asia-Pacific segment.
The change was made to align the segmental analysis with the information reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker and comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Products and services HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its six geographical regions.
The products and services offered to customers are organised by customer group and global business.
Personal Financial Services offers a broad range of products and services to meet the personal banking, consumer finance and wealth management needs of individual customers.
Personal banking products typically include current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, insurance, wealth management and local and international payment services.
Commercial Banking product offerings include the provision of financing services, payments and cash management, international trade finance, treasury and capital markets, commercial cards, insurance, wealth management and investment banking services.
Global Banking and Markets provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients worldwide.
The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including investment banking and financing solutions: a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, money markets and securities services: global asset management services and principal investment activities.
Private Banking provides a range of services to meet the banking, investment and wealth advisory needs of high net worth individuals.
Financial information In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures.
Previously, it formed part of Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Comparative data have been restated accordingly.
2 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
Excludes assets acquired as part of business combinations and goodwill.
