Dubai and the UAE Personal lending Unaudited In November 2009, Dubai World, a Dubai HSBC provides a broad range of secured and government-owned firm, requested a creditor unsecured personal lending products to meet standstill on its debt repayments and those of some customer needs.
Given the diverse nature of the of its subsidiaries.
The announcement prompted markets in which HSBC operates, the range is not a significant sell-off in markets across the world.
standardised across all countries but is tailored to Abu Dhabi announced that it would offer additional meet the demands of individual markets while using assistance to Dubai, providing liquidity and a appropriate distribution channels and, wherever platform for the debt restructuring process to possible, standard global IT platforms.
Personal lending includes advances to customers HSBC, as the longest-established bank in the for asset purchase, such as residential property and region, has a longstanding relationship with the motor vehicles, where the loans are typically secured government of Dubai and its related entities.
HSBC on the assets being acquired.
HSBC also offers loans has contributed from the earliest days to the secured on existing assets, such as first and second development of Dubai as an emerging economy and liens on residential property: unsecured lending continues to maintain supportive relationships with products such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll all parts of the UAE.
HSBC will continue to offer its loans: and debt consolidation loans which may be support to the government of Dubai in achieving a secured or unsecured.
workable resolution of its current liquidity problems.
In 2009, credit exposure in the personal lending HSBCs exposure within Dubai is acceptably portfolios continued to be affected by adverse global spread and is primarily to operating companies economic conditions, particularly increased within the emirate.
HSBC is playing a prominent unemployment levels and the restricted availability role in restructuring indebtedness in order to help of refinancing which limited the ability of many restore confidence in the region.
customers to service financial obligations in line In the UAE, gross customer loans and advances with contractual commitments.
This led to fell from US$18 billion at 31 December 2008 to delinquency levels and loan impairment charges US$15 billion at 31 December 2009.
Although the remaining high, although management action in Middle East represents 2 per cent of the Groups recent years to run off the US consumer finance exit balance sheet, it remains a region to which HSBC portfolios and curtail originator activity helped is strongly committed.
reduce the overall impairment charge.
The commentary that follows is on an Sovereign counterparties underlying basis.
The overall quality of the Groups sovereign risk At 31 December 2009, total personal lending exposure remained satisfactory during 2009, with the was US$434 billion, a decline of 6 per cent from large majority of both in-country and cross-border 31 December 2008, driven by run-off in the US limits extended to countries with strong internal consumer finance exit portfolios.
Within Personal credit risk ratings.
There was no significant Financial Services total loan impairment charges and downward shift in the quality of the exposure other credit risk provisions of US$19.9 billion were although, given the higher debt and weaker fiscal 3 per cent lower than in 2008 and were concentrated positions of many Western governments, there is in North America US$14.4 billion and, to a lesser increased potential for deterioration in sovereign risk extent, Europe US$2.0 billion and Latin America profiles before budgetary re-balancing is achieved.
In order to manage this, the Group regularly updates its assessments of higher-risk countries and adjusts In early March 2009, HSBC Finance announced its risk appetite to reflect such changes.
the discontinuation of new customer account originations for all products offered by its Consumer Leveraged financing Lending business and closed approximately 800 The Group operates a controlled approach towards Consumer Lending branch offices.
In November leveraged finance origination with caps on 2009, it entered into an agreement to sell its vehicle underwriting and final hold levels in place.
This puts loan servicing operations to Santander Consumer a premium on successfully distributing risk in order USA Inc. SC USA as well as an aggregate to create capacity under the caps.
Group exposure to US$1.0 billion of vehicle finance loans, both leveraged finance transactions remained modest in delinquent and non-delinquent.
Under a separate relation to overall exposure.
agreement, SC USA will service the remainder of 215 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending HSBCs US vehicle finance portfolio.
The Total personal lending fell by 6 per cent transaction is currently expected to close in the in 2009.
In the US, personal lending was first quarter of 2010. reduced by 21 per cent.
The Consumer Lending business historically Other personal lending in the US fell by provided real estate secured, vehicle finance and 23 per cent to US$69 billion, partly due to the runpersonal non-credit card loans.
Loans were offered off in the unsecured Consumer Lending portfolio.
with both revolving and closed-end terms and with Credit card balances also declined, by 16 per cent to fixed or variable interest rates, and were originated US$39 billion, due to lower consumer spending and through branches, direct mail and the internet.
Prior steps taken by the Group to mitigate risk, including to the first quarter of 2007, HSBC Finances tightening initial credit lines and sales authorisation Mortgage Services business acquired loans from criteria, closing inactive accounts, decreasing credit correspondent lenders and, before September 2007, lines, restricting underwriting criteria, limiting cash also originated loans sourced through mortgage access, reducing marketing expenditure and, in the brokers.
The vehicle finance business originated private label portfolio, ending certain third-party vehicle loans through its dealer and .
HSBC ceased originations in those consumer origination channels and through its segments of the cards portfolio most affected by autos-in-branches programme in the Consumer the current housing and economic downturn.
The Lending branch offices, until these originations were decline in balances included US$1.3 billion relating discontinued.
to the revised write-off period for second lien In December 2009, HSBC Finance revised the mortgages and other unsecured personal lending.
write-off period for its real estate secured and The Cards business remains a continuing Consumer Lending unsecured portfolios in order to business in the US for HSBC, comprising both reflect changed customer behaviour, aligning it with general and private label portfolios.
The general the policy used across the Group.
As a consequence Cards portfolio has approximately US$23 billion in of this, real estate secured balances are now written loans.
According to The Nilson Report, HSBC is the down to net realisable value generally no later than sixth largest issuer of MasterCard and Visa credit the end of the month in which the account becomes cards in the US, based on loan balances.
Similarly, for Consumer Lending unsecured products, balances are now The Private Label Credit Card PLCC written off no later than the end of the month in business, with balances of US$15.6 billion, has which the account becomes 180 days delinquent.
approximately 14 million active customer accounts This change in write-off period was reflected in and 32 active merchant relationships.
The Nilson lower recoverable balances and lower impairment Report lists HSBCs private label servicing reserves at 31 December 2009. portfolio as the third largest portfolio in the US.
At 31 December 2009, PLCC loans were sourced Total US personal lending at 31 December 2009 from the following business lines: approximately stood at US$135 billion, a decline of 21 per cent 45 per cent in consumer electronics, 24 per cent in compared with the end of 2008, as HSBC ran off power sport vehicles, 16 per cent in department certain portfolios in the consumer finance business stores, and 7 per cent of loans in furniture stores.
and improved the credit quality of the Card and The private label financing products are generated Retail Services portfolio through tightening through merchant retail locations, merchant underwriting criteria.
catalogue and telephone sales, and direct mail and Residential mortgage lending balances in the US internet applications.
declined by 19 per cent to US$66 billion, driven by Motor vehicle finance balances in the US the decision to close all Consumer Lending branches declined by 47 per cent to US$5.8 billion, reflecting and run off the legacy consumer finance portfolios.
the 2008 decision to run off the portfolio in HSBC The decrease in balances included a US$2.0 billion Finance.
As noted above, in November 2009, HSBC reduction relating to the revised write-off period agreed to sell the vehicle finance loan servicing referred to above and the sale of US$4.5 billion of operation and US$1.0 billion of associated loans.
prime mortgage loans in HSBC Bank USA.
US mortgage lending is discussed in greater detail on page 218.
Total personal lending in the UK increased by US$21 billion.
Residential mortgage lending 8 per cent to US$130 billion, driven by growth in increased by 6 per cent, while other personal lending residential mortgage lending at HSBC Bank and fell by 13 per cent.
The reduction in other personal First Direct as HSBC grew market share in UK lending was largely in Mexico, where balances mortgage lending.
UK mortgage lending is discussed decreased by 30 per cent to US$2.7 billion following in greater detail below.
Other personal lending in management action to mitigate risk and restrict the UK declined by 11 per cent to US$29 billion, originations in the credit cards portfolio to address primarily due to reduced customer demand for the adverse credit experience which developed in credit.
Similarly, in Brazil, personal lending declined by 6 per cent to US$11 billion at 31 December 2009 In Latin America, gross loans and advances to personal customers declined by 9 per cent to 217 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending Mortgage lending as steps were taken to improve credit quality by the number of refinancing options available to tightening underwriting criteria.
For an analysis of loan impairment Including the US$2.3 billion decline in balances allowances and impaired loans, see page 230. due to the acceleration of write-offs, mortgage lending in HSBC Finance fell from US$74 billion at Mortgage lending 31 December 2008 to US$61 billion at 31 December 2009 as set out in the table on page 221.
Balances The Group offers a wide range of mortgage products outstanding in the Consumer Lending business designed to meet customer needs, including capital were US$40 billion at 31 December 2009, of which repayment mortgages subject to fixed or variable approximately 95 per cent were fixed rate loans and interest rates and products designed to meet demand 88 per cent were first lien.
The Mortgage Services for housing loans with more flexible payment business had US$22 billion in outstanding balances structures.
HSBC underwrites both first lien at 31 December 2009, of which approximately residential mortgages and loans secured on second 62 per cent were fixed rate loans and 86 per cent lien mortgages.
Interest-only mortgages are those for which Mortgage lending in the US fell by 19 per customers make regular payments of interest during cent to US$78 billion and rose in the UK by the life of the loan and repay the principal from the 15 per cent to US$102 billion.
sale of their home or alternative sources of funds.
Introductory interest-only mortgages are typically As a consequence of the turmoil in mortgage where the interest-only element is for a fixed term at lending markets in the US, there was a significant the start of the loan, after which principal amount of federal and state legislative and regulatory repayments commence.
focus on this activity in 2009.
Increased regulatory Affordability mortgages include all products oversight over residential mortgage lenders occurred where the customer's monthly payments are set at a at both state and federal level.
Several regulators, low initial rate, either variable or fixed, before legislators and other governmental bodies promoted resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period particular views of appropriate or model loan is over.
These include adjustable-rate mortgages modification programmes, loan products, and ARMs and loans on which the interest rate is foreclosure and loss-mitigation practices.
HSBC periodically changed based on a reference price.
Finance has developed a modification programme that employs procedures which are believed to be Offset mortgages are products linked to a responsive to customers needs, and continues to current or savings account, where interest earned is enhance and refine these practices as other used to repay mortgage debt.
programmes are announced and the results of customer assistance efforts are evaluated.
It US mortgage lending continues to be active in various initiatives to help US mortgage lending, comprising residential people keep their homes, and participates in local mortgage and second lien lending, made up 18 per events sponsored by industry participants, regulators cent of the Groups gross loans and advances to and consumer advocates.
The mortgage portfolios in both Consumer Balances declined by 19 per cent compared with Lending and Mortgage Services are now expected to 2008 to US$78 billion, including a reduction of remain on the balance sheet for a longer period than US$2.3 billion attributed to the revision of the writewas assumed when they were originated.
Reduced off period referred to above.
The decrease was mortgage prepayment rates and higher levels of loan driven by the continued run-off of the Mortgage modifications have had the effect of extending the Services portfolio and actions taken since mid-2007 projected average life of these loan portfolios.
As a to reduce risk and discontinue, from the first quarter result, both net interest income and asset valuations of 2009, new originations in the Consumer Lending have increasingly become exposed to rising interest business.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA sold rates as the average life of funding has declined US$4.5 billion of prime mortgage loans in 2009 while the average life of mortgage asset portfolios on top of normal sale activity.
The overall rate of has grown.
decline in real-estate secured balances continued to In HSBC Bank USA, mortgage lending declined slow due to a reduction in loan prepayments, as the from US$22 billion at 31 December 2008 to continuing weakness in the US economy limited US$16 billion at 31 December 2009 following 218 initiatives taken to reduce risk.
This included the UK mortgage impairments and delinquency ongoing sale of the majority of new residential loan balances deteriorated slightly but remained at originations to government-sponsored enterprises relatively low levels despite higher unemployment.
and private investors and, in 2009, additional sales House prices recovered, and the portfolio remained of US$4.5 billion of prime adjustable and fixed rate well secured, reflecting the continuing benefit from residential mortgage loans.
At the end of 2009, management decisions taken in 2007 and 2008 to approximately 32 per cent of the HSBC Bank USA reduce market share when property prices were mortgage portfolio were fixed rate loans and 75 per rising to unsustainably high levels.
In the HSBC cent were first lien.
Bank Mortgage Portfolio, excluding First Direct, the percentage of loans that were 30 days or more Further discussion of credit trends in the US delinquent declined from 1.8 per cent at mortgage lending portfolio and the steps taken to 31 December 2008 to 1.6 per cent in 2009.
The mitigate risk is provided in US personal lending average loan-to-value ratio for new business in this credit quality on page 221. portfolio in 2009 was 54.6 per cent, a decrease of 4.2 percentage points on the previous year.
UK mortgage lending Interest-only mortgage balances increased by Total mortgage lending in the UK increased by 21 per cent to US$45 billion compared with 15 per cent on a constant currency basis to 31 December 2008, driven by an increase in US$102 billion at 31 December 2009, with HSBC balances at First Direct following marketing increasing its market share of UK mortgage lending initiatives, and competitive pricing.
The majority through the success of the RateMatcher promotion of these mortgages were offset mortgages linked to and other campaigns within the UK secured lending a current account for which delinquency rates growth strategy.
remained at very low levels.
HSBC was able both to grow market share and Second lien balances, which were all held maintain high credit quality despite adverse UK by HFC Bank Ltd HFC in the UK, declined by market conditions because of the consistent 17 per cent to US$1.1 billion at 31 December 2009 application of conservative underwriting standards as the portfolio was placed in run-off during the and constraints on some competitors in growing year.
Within this portfolio, two months or more their lending exposure.
Almost all new business delinquency rates increased from 6 per cent at originations are made through HSBCs own 31 December 2008 to 6.6 per cent at 31 December salesforce and mainly to existing customers holding 2009, despite a decline in delinquencies in dollar a current or savings account relationship with the terms as balances declined at a faster pace.
HSBC does not accept self-certification of income and restricts lending to purchase residential The following table shows the levels of property for rental.
mortgage lending products in the various portfolios in the US, the UK and the rest of the HSBC Group.
HSBC Finance held approximately cent of the Groups gross loans and advances to US$61 billion of residential mortgage and second personal customers.
A breakdown of these balances lien loans and advances to personal customers by portfolio was as follows: secured on real estate at 31 December 2009, 14 per 220
