HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net insurance claims Loan impairment charges the US, gains from the extinguishment of certain Similarly, in Hong Kong revaluation gains on debt issued by HSBCs mortgage securitisation investment properties did not recur.
vehicles in the UK and lower costs associated with Life assurance enhancements to pension the provision of support to certain money market products resulted in increased present value of infunds.
force long-term insurance PVIF business, which also benefited from the non-recurrence of regulatory 2008 compared with 2007 changes in 2007 in the UK.
Reported other operating income of US$1.8 billion During 2008, HSBC recognised a gain of was 26 per cent higher than in 2007.
This included US$416 million in respect of the purchase of the gains of US$425 million on the sale of the card subsidiary of Metrovacesa which owned the property merchant acquiring business in the UK and and long leasehold comprising 8 Canada Square, US$71 million on the sale of HSBCs entire stake London.
in Financiera Independencia, a Mexican consumer lending company.
On an underlying basis, other Other operating income declined, driven by operating income fell by 23 per cent.
losses on sale of the Canadian vehicle finance business and other loan portfolios in 2008, in addition The difficult property market conditions in the to the non-recurrence of gains on disposal of fixed UK led to a loss in value of a property fund, lower assets and private equity investments in 2007. income from the sale of property fund assets and a reduction in Group real estate disposals in 2008.
2009 compared with 2008 Bond noted above had a corresponding effect on movement in liabilities to policyholders in the UK.
Reported net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders increased by As a consequence of a rising incidence and 81 per cent to US$12.5 billion.
On an underlying severity of claims, aggregate charges of basis, they increased by 94 per cent.
US$310 million were made to strengthen reserves in the UK motor book and the Irish reinsurance The increase in net insurance claims incurred business during 2009.
The UK motor insurance and movement in liabilities to policyholders mainly business was placed into run-off in September 2009. reflected the improvement in investment market performance compared with 2008 described above 2008 compared with 2007 under Financial instruments designated at fair value.
Higher investment gains were broadly Reported net insurance claims incurred and matched by movement in liabilities to policyholders movement in liabilities to policyholders decreased on unit-linked and, to a certain extent, participating by 20 per cent to US$6.9 billion.
HSBC acquired the policies whose policyholders share in the investment remaining interest in HSBC Assurances in France in performance of the supporting assets.
The gains March 2007 and, in October 2007, sold Hamilton generated on the assets held to support insurance Insurance Company Limited and Hamilton Life contract liabilities are reported in Net income from Assurance Company Limited in the UK.
On an financial instruments designated at fair value.
underlying basis, net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders fell by New business growth in a number of regions 22 per cent.
during 2009, particularly Hong Kong and Singapore, also contributed to an increase in the movement in The reduction in net insurance claims incurred liabilities to policyholders, as did the non-recurrence and movement in liabilities to policyholders of a large one-off reinsurance transaction in France primarily reflected the impact of markedly weaker in 2008.
The decline in sales of a Guaranteed Income investment markets worldwide.
