movements in the fair value of HSBCs own long- 2008 compared with 2007 term debt from underlying performance.
Reported net income from financial instruments Income of US$3.8 billion was recorded due to a designated at fair value decreased by fair value movement on assets held to back insurance US$231 million to US$3.9 billion in 2008. and investment contracts, compared with an expense On an underlying basis, in particular excluding a of US$4.8 billion in 2008.
This reflected investment large income from movements in the fair value of gains in the current year driven by improved market the Groups own long-term debt, a net expense of performance, predominantly affecting the value of US$2.7 billion was recorded, compared with income assets held in unit-linked and participating funds in of US$1.1 billion in 2007.
Hong Kong, the UK and France.
A negative movement of US$5.1 billion was To the extent that the investment gains related to recorded in the fair value of assets held to back assets held to back investment contracts, the insurance and investment contracts, compared with a expense associated with the corresponding positive reported movement of US$2.1 billion in increase in liabilities to customers was also 2007.
This reflected investment losses driven by recorded under net income from financial falling equity and bond markets, predominantly instruments designated at fair value.
This affecting the value of assets held in unit-linked and expense amounted to US$1.3 billion in 2009 participating funds in Hong Kong, France and the compared with an income of US$1.5 billion in UK.
The negative movement in fair value is partially 2008 when liabilities fell in line with declining offset by a corresponding reduction in Net asset markets.
insurance claims and movement in liabilities to To the extent that the investment gains related to policyholders, where unit-linked policyholders in assets held to back insurance contracts, they particular participate in the investment performance were offset by a corresponding increase in Net experienced on the investment portfolios held to insurance claims and movement in liabilities to support the liabilities.
policyholders to reflect the extent to which For assets held to meet liabilities under unit-linked policyholders, in particular, investment contracts the corresponding reduction in participate in the investment performance the liability to customers is also reported within net experienced in the associated asset portfolios.
income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
A reduction of US$1.8 billion in the fair value of liabilities held under investment contracts compared with a reported increase in the fair value of liabilities of US$940 million in 2007.
Reported gains less losses from financial investments increased by US$323 million to US$520 Sales of Visa shares contributed significant million.
On an underlying basis, they increased by gains during 2008, with additional gains from further US$546 million.
Other gains recognised during 2008, including those recorded on the sale of MasterCard Net gains on the disposal of debt securities shares, were not repeated in 2009. increased significantly, due to gains recorded on the sale of mortgage-backed securities in North A significantly lower level of impairments on America.
They were supplemented by smaller gains, equity investments was recognised in 2009 than in 31
