HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 24 24 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2009 HSBCs Country of interest in Issued incorporation equity capital equity Share or registration % capital class Europe HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited....................................... England 100 265m Ordinary 1 HSBC Bank A.
5 Preference shares of nil par value.
6 Issued equity capital is less than US$1 million.
442 Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 28 Debt securities in issue, 32 Subordinated liabilities and 36 Minority interests, respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.
Details of all HSBC subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East and HSBC Life International Limited which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
Subsidiaries which experience significant restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to HSBC in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans and advances During 2009 and 2008, none of the Groups subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Subsidiaries excluding SPEs where HSBC owns less than 50 per cent of the voting rights HSBCs interest in Subsidiary equity capital Description of relationship that gives HSBC control % 2009 HSBC Private Equity Fund 3.................................. 38.8 HSBC has control under IAS 27 because it is the investment adviser manager of the fund and has a significant equity interest.
2008 HSBC Private Equity Fund 3.................................. 38.8 HSBC has control under IAS 27 because it is the investment adviser manager of the fund and has a significant equity interest.
For further details, see Special Purpose Entities on page 181.
