HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management amount of the asset is reduced directly.
For further the amount and timing of expected receipts and details, see Accounting policies on page 369. recoveries: Impairment allowances may be assessed and the extent of other creditors commitments created either for individually significant accounts ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and or, on a collective basis, for groups of individually the likelihood of other creditors continuing to significant accounts for which no evidence of support the company: impairment has been individually identified or for the complexity of determining the aggregate high-volume groups of homogeneous loans that are amount and ranking of all creditor claims and not considered individually significant.
the extent to which legal and insurance It is HSBCs policy that each operating uncertainties are evident: company creates allowances for impaired loans the value of security and likelihood of promptly and consistently.
successfully realising it: Management regularly evaluates the adequacy the existence of other credit mitigants and the of the established allowances for impaired loans by ability of the providers of such credit mitigants conducting a detailed review of the loan portfolio, to deliver as contractually committed: and comparing performance and delinquency statistics with historical trends and assessing the impact of when available, the secondary market price of current economic conditions.
The level of impairment allowances on Individually assessed impairment allowances individually significant accounts that are above These are determined by evaluating exposure to loss, defined materiality thresholds is reviewed at least case by case, on all individually significant accounts semi-annually, and more regularly when and all other accounts that do not qualify for the circumstances require.
This normally encompasses collective assessment approach outlined below.
re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral Loans are treated as impaired as soon as there is held and of actual and anticipated receipts.
For objective evidence that an impairment loss has been significant commercial and corporate debts, incurred.
The criteria used by HSBC to determine specialised loan work-out teams with experience in that there is such objective evidence include: insolvency and specific market sectors are used to manage the lending and assess likely losses.
known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower: Individually assessed impairment allowances are only released when there is reasonable and past due contractual payments of either principal objective evidence of a reduction in the established or interest: loss estimate.
breach of loan covenants or conditions: Collectively assessed impairment allowances the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation: and Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: a significant downgrading in credit rating by an external credit rating agency.
to cover losses that have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to In determining the level of allowances on such individual assessment: and accounts, the following factors are typically considered: for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model Incurred but not yet identified impairment and their capacity to trade successfully out of Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of financial difficulties, generating sufficient cash impairment has been specifically identified on an flow to service debt obligations: individual basis are grouped together according to the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make their credit risk characteristics.
A collective payments in, the currency of the loan if not impairment allowance is calculated to reflect denominated in local currency: impairment losses incurred at the balance sheet date which will only be individually identified in the future.
