HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net interest income Net trading income Net income from financial instrument at FV 2009 compared with 2008 principally in the US consumer finance business, and reduced payment protection business in the UK.
Reported net fee income decreased by 12 per cent to US$17.7 billion, 5 per cent lower on an underlying Corporate credit facility and underwriting fees basis.
increased strongly on the back of higher debt originations in Europe and North America which Lower credit card fees and weaker equity accompanied the considerable reconstruction and markets led to a decline in net fee income.
refinancing of corporate balance sheets in 2009. Credit card fees fell significantly, mainly 2008 compared with 2007 in North America, reflecting lower transaction volumes, a reduction in cards in issue and changes in Reported net fee income declined by 9 per cent to customer behaviour which led to lower cash US$20 billion, 7 per cent lower on an underlying advance, interchange, late and overlimit fees.
UK, the decrease primarily arose from the disposal Lower equity market-related revenues, notably of the card-acquiring business to a joint venture in in Hong Kong, were driven by weakened investor June 2008. sentiment, and reflected in the fall in the aggregate Weaker equity markets and subdued investor of broking income, global custody and unit trust sentiment for higher risk products led to a reduction income.
Similarly, fund management fees declined in both the volume and the value of equity-related as equity markets retreated and lower performance products.
This resulted in a decrease in fees fees were earned.
generated from funds under management, global HSBC announced revisions to its credit card fee custody and unit trusts, though fees grew from charging policies in the US in 2007, and this fed equity capital markets products in Global Banking through as expected in the form of a substantial and Markets.
The impact was particularly marked in decline in overlimit fees, further compounded by the first half of 2009, though market-related fees lower cash advance and interchange fee income as a recovered somewhat in the second half of the year as result of reduced volumes.
In the UK, the divestment market values rose and investor appetite for equity in 2008 of the card acquiring business resulted in products increased.
Offsetting these factors Account services fees fell, predominantly in were rises in card fees in Hong Kong, the Middle North America as the result of a decline in credit East, India and Turkey.
card volumes and changes in customer behaviour, Fee income from credit facilities rose, notably in and in Private Banking due to a decrease in fiduciary the Middle East, in line with customer volumes.
deposit commissions as lower interest rates drove Growth in fee income from trade and supply chain down balances.
products reflected higher volumes and customer Insurance broking fees also fell, mainly due to acquisition in India and, to a greater extent in the lower origination volumes of credit-related products, Middle East, increased activity driven by commodity price inflation.
28 2009 compared with 2008 US dollar depreciated against sterling, and on interest rate swaps as US dollar long and medium Reported net trading income increased by 50 per term interest rates increased over the year.
In 2008, cent to US$9.9 billion, 83 per cent higher on an appreciation of the US dollar and a fall in interest underlying basis.
rates led to mark-to-market losses on these Reported trading income excludes the interest instruments.
expense of the internal funding of trading assets.
As During the second half of 2008, HSBC noted in Net interest income, the cost of internally reclassified US$17.9 billion of assets from held for funding these assets declined significantly as a result trading to loans and receivables and available for of the low interest rate environment.
sale following the IASBs amendment to The Credit business benefited from a general International Accounting Standard IAS 39.
Had tightening of credit spreads following a return of these reclassifications not taken place and the assets liquidity to much of the market, and the write-downs had continued to be accounted for on a fair value on legacy positions in Credit trading declined basis, additional gains of US$1.5 billion would have significantly following the stabilisation of asset been recorded in 2009 2008: losses of prices.
See Impact of Market Turmoil, pages 151 to 195.
Net trading income rose by 83 per cent on an underlying basis.
2008 compared with 2007 An increase in Rates revenues, particularly in Reported net trading income fell by 33 per cent the first half of the year, reflected increased market to US$6.6 billion, 32 per cent lower on an share and client trading volumes, wider bid-offer underlying basis.
spreads and early positioning for interest rate Net income from trading activities declined by movements.
Partly offsetting these gains, fair value 81 per cent, driven by the continuing effect of the losses were recorded on HSBC structured liabilities market turmoil which led to US$5.4 billion of writeas a result of credit spreads tightening, compared downs on legacy monoline credit exposures, credit with gains in this area in 2008. trading and leveraged and acquisition finance loans.
Equities benefited from the non-recurrence of More information about the losses, the associated the US$984 million charge reported in 2008 in assets and residual exposure is provided in Impact respect of Madoff Securities.
The core Equities of Market Turmoil on pages 151 to 166. business also took advantage of a changed Record foreign exchange trading income was competitive landscape to capture a greater share of due to increased customer volumes and market business in strategic markets from key institutional volatility across all regions, as investors sought to clients.
reduce risk in the second half of 2008, driving Foreign exchange trading revenues were well growth in global foreign exchange trading as ahead of 2007, but fell short of the record year in demand for assets denominated in US dollars 2008.
This reflected a combination of reduced and Japanese Yen increased.
customer volumes from lower trade flows and Rates trading income rose substantially, with investment activity, and relatively lower market record revenues in the first half of 2008 due to volatility.
favourable positioning against movements in interest Tightening credit spreads led to losses of rate yield curves as central banks responded to the US$429 million on credit default swap transactions market turmoil by lowering short-term interest rates.
in parts of the Global Banking portfolio.
In 2008, Revenues were also boosted by an increased number gains of US$912 million were reported on these of deals, widening spreads and increased customer credit default swaps as a result of widening credit demand for trading and hedging products.
The decline in equities trading income reflected A reduction in net interest income on trading weaker equity markets, particularly in Hong Kong, activities reflected the sharp fall in interest rates at where demand for structured equity products fell.
the end of 2008 but was partly compensated for by a In addition, following the alleged fraud at Madoff reduction in the internal funding cost of trading Securities, HSBC wrote off the value of units it held activities, which is reported in Net interest income.
in funds that had invested with the company and took a US$984 million charge.
The units had been Income from non-qualifying hedges related to acquired in connection with various financing mark-to-market gains on cross-currency swaps as the 29
