HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value that are generally observable include foreign valuation technique is derived from the fair value exchange spot and forward rates, benchmark interest of the underlying debt security as described above, rate curves and volatility surfaces for commonly and the fair value of the embedded derivative is traded option products.
Examples of inputs that may determined as described in the paragraph above be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole on derivatives.
or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as Fair value valuation bases foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity The table below provides an analysis of the various prices.
bases described above which have been deployed for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities Loans, including leveraged loans and loans held measured at fair value in the consolidated financial for securitisation statements.
Loans held at fair value are valued from broker The movement in the balances of assets and quotes and or market data consensus providers when liabilities measured at fair value with significant available.
In the absence of an observable market, unobservable inputs was mainly attributable to a the fair value is determined using valuation decrease in the fair value of derivative assets, loans techniques.
These techniques include discounted held for securitisation and the disposal of securities cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions in other portfolios.
At 31 December 2009, financial regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, instruments measured at fair value using a valuation derived from other market instruments issued by the technique with significant unobservable inputs same or comparable entities.
represented 2 per cent of total assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2008: 2 per cent.
The primary unobservable input relates commercial property-related securities, leveraged to the probability of default of the counterparty.
finance-related securities and Alt-A securities with Further details of the transactions with monoline no particular concentration in any one category.
counterparties are shown on page 163.
Assets in other portfolios valued using a valuation Derivative products valued using valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs were techniques with significant unobservable inputs principally holdings in an Asian bond portfolio included certain correlation products, such as foreign where the credit spreads are not directly observable.
exchange basket options, equity basket options, Trading assets valued using a valuation foreign exchange-interest rate hybrid transactions technique with significant unobservable inputs and long-dated option transactions.
Examples of the principally comprised ABSs, loans held for latter are equity options, interest rate and foreign securitisation and other portfolios.
The ABSs are exchange options and certain credit derivatives.
classified in Level 3 as a result of the Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS unobservability of the underlying price of the assets.
The decrease in Level 3 derivative Loans held for securitisations are valued using a assets during the year was mainly due to a decrease proprietary model which utilises inputs relating to in the fair value of structured credit transactions.
the credit spread of the obligor.
Other portfolios Trading liabilities valued using a valuation include holdings in various bonds, preference shares technique with significant unobservable inputs and debentures where the unobservability relates to principally comprised equity-linked structured notes the prices of the underlying securities.
The decrease which are issued by HSBC and provide the during the year was due to a reduction in the fair counterparty with a return that is linked to the value of loans held for securitisation and disposals performance of certain equity securities, and other of positions within other portfolios.
The notes are classified as Level 3 due to Derivative products with monolines valued the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated using techniques with unobservable inputs decreased equity volatilities and correlations between equity during the year as a result of a decrease in exposure prices, between equity prices and interest rates and 173 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
This was partially offset by The movement in Level 3 trading liabilities during transfers out of structured interest rate and equity the year was primarily due to the issue of new equity derivatives due to increased observability of longderivative linked structures classified in other dated swaptions and equity volatilities.
portfolios, partially offset by transfers out of Level 3 as a result of increased observability of long-dated Reconciliation of fair value measurements in volatilities.
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy The increase in derivative liabilities valued The following table provides a reconciliation of the using a valuation technique with significant movement between opening and closing balances of unobservable inputs was primarily attributable to the Level 3 financial instruments, measured at fair value transfer into Level 3 of swaps linked to securitisation using a valuation technique with significant structures whose valuation utilises inputs relating to unobservable inputs: the prepayment rates for the underlying asset pools Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value Available Held for through Held for through for sale trading profit or loss Derivatives trading profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2009........................ 9,116 7,561 460 9,883 6,509 3,805 Total gains losses recognised in profit or loss......................... 260 730 97 5,275 107 3 1,372 Total gains recognised in other comprehensive income............ 617 85 119 301 10 94 Purchases..................................... 1,785 1,598 260 22 New issuances.............................. 2,522 500 Sales............................................. 806 2,166 13 Settlements................................... 1,059 295 6 104 1,266 206 Transfers out................................ 3,043 1,077 1,057 537 620 Transfers in.................................. 3,864 1,444 426 887 1,330 3,491 At 31 December 2009.................. 10,214 6,420 1,224 4,453 8,774 507 5,192 Total gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to those assets and liabilities held on 31 December 2009.................. 371 596 98 3,753 136 3 135 For available-for-sale securities, the risk position did not change, but securities were unobservability of valuations of asset-backed purchased in place of the derivative transactions.
particularly Alt-A and leveraged finance-related For derivative assets, transfers out of Level 3 securities and the Asian bond portfolio discussed on were driven by decreases in residual maturity of page 173 resulted in assets in these categories being longer-dated equity options to below the transferred or purchased into Level 3 during 2009. observability boundary, movement in equity prices Transfers out of Level 3 were primarily in respect of leading to previously out-of-the money or in-thecommercial property related ABSs due to certain money options becoming closer to at-the-money valuations in these asset categories becoming options, and some increased observability of longobservable during 2009. dated swaption and foreign exchange volatilities.
For trading assets, transfers into Level 3 arose Transfers in were largely driven by the principally on ABSs, fixed income securities and a unobservability of prepayment rates on swaps linked syndicated loan position where valuations for the to third-party securitisations.
specific instruments were not observable.
Transfers For held-for-trading liabilities, transfers into out also related principally to ABSs and fixed Level 3 were primarily due to a reduction in the income securities as valuations for specific observability of volatilities and gap risk parameters instruments became observable.
Purchases relate on embedded derivatives within issued structured primarily to the unwind of certain ABS total return notes.
Transfers out of Level 3 were driven by swap funding transactions, in which HSBCs market 174 similar factors as derivative assets, also relating to movements on all other financial instruments embedded derivatives within issued structured notes.
designated at fair value and related derivatives.
For derivative liabilities, the unobservability of Realised gains and losses from  rates on securitisation swaps was the sale securities are presented under Gains less losses main reason for transfers into Level 3.
Transfers out of financial investments in the income statement of Level 3 were driven by similar factors as while unrealised gains and losses are presented in derivative assets.
Fair value gains losses within Available-for-sale investments in other comprehensive income During 2009, there were no significant transfers expense.
For assets and liabilities classified as held for Effect of changes in significant unobservable trading, realised and unrealised gains and losses are assumptions to reasonably possible presented in the income statement under Trading alternatives income excluding net interest income.
As discussed above, the fair value of financial Fair value changes on long term debt designated instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured at fair value and related derivatives are presented using valuation techniques that incorporate in the income statement under Changes in fair assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from value of long-term debt issued and related observable current market transactions in the same derivatives.
The income statement line item Net instrument and are not based on observable market income expense from other financial instruments data.
The following table shows the sensitivity of designated at fair value captures fair value these fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in equity Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2009 23 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities...... 984 577 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 102 98 Financial investments: available for sale..................... 1,161 1,157 At 31 December 2008 23 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities...... 1,266 703 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 30 30 Financial investments: available for sale..................... 984 1,005 For footnote, see page 195.
The decrease in the effect of changes in portfolios.
The increase in the effect of changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to significant unobservable inputs for available-for-sale derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities assets arose from the increase in private equity during the year primarily reflected the decreased holdings in Level 3 and from increased sensitivity sensitivity to the assumptions for the derivative to the assumptions for ABSs.
the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the In the absence of such evidence, managements unobservable parameters using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is For structured notes and other derivatives, judgemental.
principal assumptions concern the value to be attributed to future volatility of asset values and the When the fair value of a financial instrument is future correlation between asset values.
These affected by more than one unobservable assumption, principal assumptions include credit volatilities and the above table reflects the most favourable or most correlations used in the valuation of structured credit unfavourable change from varying the assumptions derivatives including leveraged credit derivatives.
For such unobservable assumptions, estimates are In respect of private equity investments, the based on available market data, which may include valuations are assessed on an asset by asset basis the use of a proxy method to derive a volatility or a using a valuation methodology appropriate to the correlation from comparable assets for which market specific investment, in line with industry guidelines.
data is more readily available, and or an examination In many of the methodologies, the principal of historical levels.
assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators.
This may be Changes in fair value recorded in the income determined with reference to multiples for statement comparable listed companies and includes discounts The following table quantifies the changes in fair for marketability.
values recognised in profit or loss during the year in For ABSs whose prices are unobservable, respect of assets and liabilities held at the end of the models are used to generate the expected value of year whose fair values are estimated using valuation the asset.
The principal assumptions in these models techniques that incorporate significant assumptions are based on benchmark information about that are not evidenced by prices from observable prepayment speeds, default rates, loss severities and current market transactions in the same instrument, the historical performance of the underlying assets.
and are not based on observable market data: The models used are calibrated by using securities 2009 2008 for which external market information is available.
US$m US$m Recorded profit loss on: For leveraged finance, loans held for Derivatives, trading assets and securitisation and derivatives with monolines the trading liabilities...................... 4,620 779 principal assumption concerns the appropriate value Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value............ 95 109 to be attributed to the counterparty credit risk.
This requires estimation of exposure at default, The loss during the year included changes in the probability of default and recovery in the event of fair value of monoline and CDPC-related credit default.
For loan transactions, assessment of derivatives which use a valuation technique with exposure at default is straightforward.
For derivative significant unobservable inputs.
Additionally, there transactions, a future exposure profile is generated was a decline in the fair value of other structured on the basis of current market data.
Probabilities of credit derivatives attributable to the tightening of default and recovery levels are estimated using credit spreads during the year.
market evidence, which may include financial 176 In general, many Level 3 instruments are risk HSBC Holdings managed using derivatives which employ a valuation The following table provides an analysis of the basis technique with observable inputs.
However, the for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities associated gains on these derivatives in the year are measured at fair value in the financial statements: not reflected in the table above.
The table details the total change in fair value of these instruments: it does not isolate the component attributable to unobservable inputs.
Bases of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Valuation techniques Quoted Using With significant market observable unobservable price inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2009 Assets Derivatives................................................................ 2,981 2,981 Financial investments: available for sale................. 2,455 2,455 Liabilities Financial liabilities designated at fair value............ 12,549 4,360 16,909 Derivatives................................................................ 362 362 At 31 December 2008 Assets Derivatives................................................................ 3,682 3,682 Financial investments: available for sale................. 2,629 2,629 Liabilities Financial liabilities designated at fair value............ 13,321 3,068 16,389 Derivatives................................................................ 1,324 1,324 Financial investments measured using a Effect of changes in significant unobservable valuation technique with significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible inputs comprise fixed-rate preferred securities and alternatives senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings.
In certain circumstances, the fair value of financial The unobservable elements of the valuation instruments are measured using valuation models technique include the use of implied credit spreads that incorporate assumptions that are not supported and simplified bond pricing assumptions.
by prices from observable current market Assets transactions in the same instrument and are not based available on observable market data.
The following table for sale shows the sensitivity of non-derivative financial US$m instruments to reasonably possible alternative At 1 January 2009....................................... 2,629 assumptions: Total gains or losses: recognised in profit or loss..................... 2 Reflected in equity recognised in other comprehensive Favourable Unfavourable income.................................................... 103 changes changes Settlements.................................................. 275 US$m US$m Financial investments At 31 December 2009................................. 2,455 available for sale Total gains or losses recognised in profit or At 31 December 2009.... 115 107 loss relating to those assets and liabilities At 31 December 2008..... 113 97 held on 31 December 2009.................... 2 177
