HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Impairment of available-for-sale financial a decrease in estimated future cash flows.
When cash assets flows are readily determinable, less judgement is required.
When determination of estimated future HSBCs accounting policy for impairment of cash flows requires consideration of a number of available-for-sale financial assets is described in variables, some of which may be unobservable in Note 2j on the Financial Statements.
current market conditions, more judgement is Available-for-sale financial assets are measured required.
at fair value, and changes in fair value are recognised The most significant judgements concern more in other comprehensive income in Available-forcomplex instruments, such as asset-backed securities sale investments fair value gains losses until the ABSs, where it is necessary to consider factors financial assets are either sold or become impaired.
such as the estimated future cash flows on An impairment loss is recognised if there is objective underlying pools of collateral including prepayment evidence of impairment as a result of loss events speeds, the extent and depth of market price declines which have an impact on the estimated future cash and changes in credit ratings.
The review of flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated future cash flows on underlying collateral estimated.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is subject to uncertainties when the assessment is becomes impaired, the cumulative balance based on historical information on pools of assets, previously recognised in other comprehensive and judgement is required to determine whether income is removed and recognised in the income historical performance remains representative of statement as an impairment loss.
A further decline in current economic and credit conditions.
the fair value of an available-for-sale debt security subsequent to the initial impairment is recognised in There is no single factor to which the Groups the income statement when there is further objective charge for impairment of available-for-sale debt evidence of impairment.
securities is particularly sensitive, because of the range of different types of securities held, the range At 31 December 2009, the Groups total of geographical areas in which those securities are available-for-sale financial assets amounted to held, and the wide range of factors which can affect US$352 billion 2008: US$286 billion, of the occurrence of loss events and the cash flows of which US$342 billion or 97 per cent 2008: securities, including different types of collateral.
US$279 billion: 98 per cent were debt securities.
The available-for-sale fair value reserve relating Managements current assessment of the to debt securities amounted to a deficit of holdings of available-for-sale ABSs with the most US$11.4 billion 2008: deficit of US$21.4 billion.
sensitivity to possible future impairment is focused A deficit in the available-for-sale fair value reserve on sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed occurs on debt securities when the fair value of a securities MBSs.
Excluding holdings in certain security so categorised is less than the securitys special purpose entities where significant first loss acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and risks are borne by external investors, the  less any previous impairment loss for-sale holdings in these categories amounted to recognised in the income statement, but where US$4.9 billion at 31 December 2009 2008: there is no evidence of any impairment or, if an US$6.1 billion.
The deficit in the available-for-sale impairment was previously recognised, any fair value reserve at 31 December 2009 in relation to subsequent impairment.
these securities was US$4.3 billion 2008: US$6.0 billion.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining whether there is objective evidence Further details of the nature and extent of that an impairment loss has occurred.
Once an HSBCs exposures to ABSs classified as availableimpairment has been identified, the amount of for-sale are provided in Impact of market turmoil impairment loss is measured with reference to the under Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures on fair value of the asset.
More information on page 157 and a more detailed description of the assumptions and estimates requiring management assumptions and estimates used in assessing these judgement relating to the determination of fair securities for impairment is disclosed in Assessing values of financial instruments is provided above in available-for-sale assets for impairment on Valuation of financial instruments.
The objective evidence required to determine It is possible that outcomes in the next financial whether an available-for-sale debt security is year could be different from those modelled when impaired comprises evidence of the occurrence of a seeking to identify impairment on available-for-sale loss event and evidence that the loss event results in debt securities.
In this event, impairment may be 64
