differs from that used for regulatory purposes.
For consolidated group reporting, the FSAs Investments in banking associates, which are equity rules permit the use of other regulators standardised accounted in the financial accounting consolidation, approaches where they are considered equivalent.
are proportionally consolidated for regulatory The use of other regulators IRB approaches is purposes.
Subsidiaries and associates engaged in subject to the agreement of the FSA.
Under the insurance and non-financial activities are excluded Groups Basel II rollout plans, a number of Group from the regulatory consolidation and are deducted companies are in transition to advanced IRB from regulatory capital.
At December 2009, corporate portfolios does not include SPEs where significant risk has in France, Hong Kong and Rest of AsiaPacific been transferred to third parties.
Exposures to these completed the transition from foundation to SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions for advanced IRB approaches.
Other Group companies regulatory purposes.
and portfolios remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, pending Pillar 1 definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment.
Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Credit Counterparty credit risk risk also covers both counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements.
All these requirements Counterparty credit risk in both the trading and nonare expressed in terms of risk-weighted assets trading books is the risk that the counterparty to a RWAs.
transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three Credit risk approaches to calculating counterparty credit risk and determining exposure values are defined by Basel II provides three approaches of increasing Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal sophistication to the calculation of pillar 1 credit model method.
These exposure values are used to risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the determine capital requirements under one of the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation credit ratings to determine the risk weightings and IRB advanced.
applied to rated counterparties and group other counterparties into broad categories and apply HSBC uses the mark-to-market and internal standardised risk weightings to these categories.
model method approaches for counterparty credit The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB risk.
Its longer-term aim is to migrate more positions foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their from the mark-to-market to the internal model credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their method approach.
internal assessment of the probability that a counterparty will default PD, but subjects their Securitisation quantified estimates of exposure at default EAD Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit and loss given default LGD to standard risk requirements for securitisation positions in the supervisory parameters.
Finally, the IRB advanced non-trading book, being the standardised and IRB approach allows banks to use their own internal approaches.
Both approaches rely on the mapping of assessment in both determining PD and quantifying rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which EAD and LGD.
range between 7 per cent and 1,250 per cent.
The capital resources requirement, which is Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250 intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from per cent are deducted from capital.
Within the IRB a formula specified in the regulatory rules, which approach, HSBC uses the Ratings Based Method for incorporates these factors and other variables such as the majority of its non-trading book securitisation maturity and correlation.
Expected losses under the positions, and the Internal Assessment Approach for IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by unrated liquidity facilities and programme wide EAD and LGD.
Expected losses are deducted from enhancements for asset-backed securitisations.
capital to the extent that they exceed accounting HSBC uses the IRB approach for the majority of impairment allowances.
its non-trading book securitisation positions, while For credit risk, with the FSAs approval, HSBC those in the trading book are treated like other has adopted the IRB advanced approach for the market risk positions.
majority of its business, with the remainder on either IRB foundation or standardised approaches.
