HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 r Finance and operating leases Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases.
When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers as appropriate.
The finance income receivable is recognised in Net interest income over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases.
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in Other liabilities.
A finance lease and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges payable are recognised in Net interest income over the period of the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to operating leases in Property, plant and equipment and accounts for them accordingly.
Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is thereby impaired.
When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the leases and are included in General and administrative expenses and Other operating income, respectively.
s Income tax Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset.
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense.
Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, is also charged or credited to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
t Pension and other post-employment benefits HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world.
These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare.
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBCs obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
