2009 compared with 2008 to determine the precise effect of the taxes.
The estimated tax payable under the proposals as Reported operating expenses fell by US$14.7 billion currently drafted is US$355 million in the UK and to US$34.4 billion, with the most significant feature US$45 million in France.
The taxes will be payable being the non-recurrence of the goodwill impairment and accounted for in 2010 once the legislation is charge of US$10.6 billion in 2008 to fully write off enacted.
For further details, see page 326. goodwill in Personal Financial Services in North America.
Excluding this and on an underlying basis, Premises and equipment costs increased operating expenses fell by 4 per cent.
marginally with higher rental costs reflecting the sale and leaseback of a number of properties in 2008.
Underlying operating expenses excluding One-off costs incurred due to the closure of the goodwill impairment fell by 4 per cent.
Consumer Lending branch network in the US were partly offset by savings resulting from the closure.
Employee compensation and benefits fell by 4 per cent as costs in the US declined following the General and administrative expenses fell as closure of the branch-based consumer finance HSBC focused on managing costs tightly and business in the first quarter of 2009.
Marketing and advertising headcount in most regions was lower and this was costs fell across the group, most notably in Card and reflected in lower costs.
In the UK, a change in the Retail Services in North America, and in the UK.
basis of delivering death-in-service, ill health and Travel and entertainment costs, and expenditure early retirement benefits for some UK employees related to services contracted to third parties, fell, generated a one-off accounting gain of primarily in Europe and North America.
Better use US$499 million which was partly offset by increased of direct channels, increased automation of manual regular pension costs.
There were higher processes, enhanced utilisation of global service performance-related costs in Global Banking and centres and elimination of redundant systems Markets reflecting its results.
The UK and French continued to be driven through the One HSBC governments announced one-off taxes in late 2009 programme.
In North America, cost savings also in respect of certain bonuses payable by banks resulted in the Consumer Lending Business from the and banking groups.
In both countries there is discontinuation of loan originations and the closure uncertainty over the interpretation of the draft of branches.
proposals, and detailed analysis of individual awards in the context of the final legislation will be required 38 2008 compared with 2007 ATM networks.
As a consequence, repairs and maintenance costs rose.
Commercial property rental Reported operating expenses increased by costs also increased as a result of higher prices, new US$10.1 billion to US$49.1 billion, due to an rentals and sale and leaseback deals.
impairment charge of US$10.6 billion to fully write off goodwill in Personal Financial Services in North General and administrative expenses America.
Excluding this, operating expenses decreased, primarily due to a one-off recovery of remained broadly in line on both reported and US$110 million of previous years transactional underlying bases.
taxes in Brazil and the non-recurrence of a number of one-off items in 2007, most notably i ex-gratia Employee compensation and benefits fell payments made in the UK in respect of overdraft marginally.
Lower discretionary bonuses reflected fees, ii the provision for reimbursement of certain weaker performance in the current economic charges on historic will trusts and other related conditions.
A review of actuarial assumptions on services in the UK, iii the indemnification employees defined benefit pensions resulted in agreement with Visa ahead of Visas IPO, and lower service costs in the UK.
The restructuring of iv restructuring charges in the US consumer the consumer finance business in North America led finance business incurred in 2007.
These were partly to reduced headcount and lower costs.
This was offset by an increase in the Financial Services partially offset by higher salaries and increased compensation scheme levy in the UK and an headcount to support business expansion, mainly in increase in a litigation provision in Asia.
Restructuring costs were incurred primarily in Latin America and Europe.
Goodwill impairment amounting to US$10.6 billion was booked following the continued Premises and equipment costs increased deterioration in economic and credit conditions in primarily in the UK and the Rest of Asia-Pacific North America.
For further information see Note 22 region, driven by investment in technology and on the Financial Statements.
