Directors and the Group Managing Directors.
The In the event of early termination of employment Committee considers that material share ownership other than for cause, of S K Green, M F Geoghegan, by executives creates a community of interest V H C Cheng, D J Flint, A A Flockhart or between senior management and shareholders.
S T Gulliver, HSBC is entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, pension To demonstrate further alignment with entitlements and other benefits.
shareholders the share ownership guidelines D J Flint, AA Flockhart and S T Gulliver will be were significantly increased in 2008 and eligible to be considered for a bonus on termination will be reviewed during 2010 in light of the of employment by HSBC other than for cause.
recommendations in the Walker Review of corporate S T Gulliver will also be eligible to be considered for governance.
a bonus upon termination of employment by either Under the existing guidelines, the shareholding party within 12 months following a change of control.
is expected to be achieved within five years of the On termination of employment by HSBC, other executives appointment or three years from the date than for cause or termination by either party within of approval of amendments to the HSBC Share Plan 12 months following a change of control, S K Green on 30 May 2008, whichever is the later.
The and M F Geoghegan will be eligible for a bonus executive Directors and Group Managing Directors calculated as not less than the average of the are now required to build and retain the following previous two years of bonus payments received, shareholdings: pro-rated for any part-year worked to termination.
Unvested Performance Share awards are excluded.
Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the 2 All of the Group Managing Directors exceed the expected Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept holdings.
appointments as non-executive directors of suitable companies which are not part of HSBC.
Approval The Remuneration Committee monitors will not be given for executive Directors to accept a compliance with the share ownership guidelines non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE annually.
The Committee will have full discretion 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a in determining any penalties in cases of noncompany.
When considering a non-executive compliance, which could include a reduction of appointment, the Nomination Committee or Board future awards of long-term incentives and or an will take into account the expected time commitment increase in the proportion of the annual bonus that of such appointment.
The time commitment for is deferred into shares.
executive Directors external appointments will be reviewed as part of the annual Board review.
Any Service contracts remuneration receivable in respect of an external HSBCs policy is to employ executive Directors on appointment is normally paid to HSBC, unless one-year rolling contracts although longer initial otherwise approved by the Remuneration terms may be approved by the Remuneration Committee.
D J Flint has elected to donate his fees Committee if considered appropriate.
The as a non-executive Director of BP p. l. c. to charity.
Remuneration Committee will, consistent with S K Green was appointed to the Supervisory Board the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise of BASF SE on 30 April 2009 and has elected to termination payments.
donate his fees to charity.
S K Green, M F Geoghegan, V H C Cheng, Non-executive Directors D J Flint, A A Flockhart and S T Gulliver have rolling service contracts with a notice period of Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed 12 months for either party.
terms not exceeding three years, subject to their 343
