HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Wholesale lending Personal lending At 31 December 2009, HSBC had in-country the heightened risks.
HSBC also played a positive foreign currency and cross-border amounts role in maintaining credit supply, where possible.
outstanding to counterparties in The Netherlands of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets: Commercial real estate in aggregate, US$19.6 billion.
Commercial real estate and other property-related At 31 December 2008, HSBC had in-country lending at 31 December 2009 of US$100 billion foreign currency and cross-border amounts declined by 8 per cent from 31 December 2008 outstanding to counterparties in Japan of between on a constant currency basis and represented 11 per 0.75 per cent and 1.0 per cent of total assets: in cent of total loans and advances to customers.
2009, the sector experienced a deterioration in credit quality, particularly in parts of Europe, At 31 December 2007, HSBC had in-country including the UK, and in the Middle East and foreign currency and cross-border amounts North America, due to a decline in asset values, a outstanding to counterparties in Hong Kong, rise in rent shortfalls from vacant properties or nonBelgium and Ireland of between 0.75 per cent and payment, a contraction in demand for new housing, 1.0 per cent of total assets.
The aggregate ina prospective fall in rental cash flows and country foreign currency and cross-border amounts significantly restricted refinancing options.
As outstanding were Hong Kong, US$19.7 billion, a result of these factors, portfolio impairment Belgium, US$19.3 billion and Ireland, occurred in a limited number of cases.
long-standing policies on asset origination which focus on relationships with long-term customers Areas of special interest and appropriate initial leverage and interest Wholesale lending coverage ratios played a key role in minimising Unaudited impairment.
While individual regions differ in their approach, the Groups origination loan-to-value Wholesale lending covers the range of credit ratios are typically less than 65 per cent.
facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and major corporate Automotive sector entities.
The Groups wholesale portfolios are well diversified across geographical and industry The global automotive industry has seen a sectors, with exposure subject to portfolio controls significant deterioration in market conditions and governing concentration risk.
Overall credit quality prospects over a prolonged period, as new entrants showed some signs of deterioration during 2009, as and legacy cost issues, primarily in the US and companies were affected by the global economic Europe, have taken effect.
Declining sales volumes, downturn, although in the second half credit exacerbated by the current economic downturn, conditions eased on the back of successful have increased the incidence of financial stress on refinancing activity earlier in the year.
equipment manufacturers, suppliers and dealers.
In the second half of 2009, the industry saw some The widespread intervention by many consolidation and, although there were tentative governments to stabilise and, in some cases to signs of an increase in sales, these should be viewed recapitalise, banks and other financial in the light of the various government scrappage intermediaries had a positive effect in reducing schemes for older vehicles in the US and Europe.
fears of a systemic threat to financial markets.
Notwithstanding this, many wholesale customers HSBC has adopted a cautious approach and counterparties faced the twin challenges of a towards this industry for a number of years, reduction in available credit and liquidity, and prioritising commitments to stronger global reduced demand for their products and services: manufacturers and limiting exposure to those firms this encouraged them to reduce indebtedness considered most likely to be affected by an industry through portfolio disposals, extend the duration of downturn.
As a result, HSBC did not have any short-term finance and focus increasingly on cost significant direct exposure to the major US vehicle efficiency.
manufacturers which entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy restructuring during 2009.
HSBC had HSBC has worked closely with its customers some exposure to North American vehicle dealers to identify problem areas early and minimise the and suppliers, but this was minimal in the context likelihood and impact of potentially adverse of the Group.
Exposure to the industry is controlled situations.
During 2009, the Group improved the by a global appetite cap that is reviewed regularly structure of its credit exposures by, for example, at the Group Risk Management Meeting.
adjusting tenor and adding collateral in response to 214
