the future performance of the Group and to A significant proportion of total compensation retain key talent.
All Restricted Share awards will be delivered in HSBC Holdings shares.
made from 2010 are subject to claw back: and Executive Directors and other senior executives are subject to share ownership guidelines.
a total remuneration package salary, bonus, long-term incentive awards and other benefits The above approach applies to all executive which is competitive in relation to comparable Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, organisations in each of the markets in which S K Green who, at his request, is remunerated HSBC operates.
through salary only, i. e. he no longer receives annual bonus payments or awards of Performance Shares: The Committee also takes into account and S T Gulliver, whose variable compensation environmental, social and governance aspects when arrangements take into account wholesale banking determining executive Directors remuneration and market practice.
oversees senior management incentive structures to ensure that such structures take account of possible The approach will continue to be carefully and inadvertent consequences from these aspects.
regularly reviewed during 2010 to take account of current market conditions and emerging regulatory Application to executive Directors guidelines see HSBC performance and market context below and, where appropriate, shareholders In order to ensure that executive Directors will be consulted on any proposed changes in policy.
compensation packages are competitive, having Any changes will also be described in future regard to the market in which HSBC competes for Directors Remuneration Reports.
executive talent, the Remuneration Committee The application of this policy to each considers market data from a defined remuneration component of executive Directors remuneration for comparator group.
This group initially comprised 2009 is outlined in more detail within Executive nine global financial services companies, namely Director remuneration.
Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of HSBC performance and market Scotland, Standard Chartered and UBS.
These context companies were selected on the basis of their broadly similar business coverage, size and international scope, and are subject to annual review 2009 was a year of unprecedented initiatives by for continuing relevance.
During 2009, the governments and central banks designed to provide Remuneration Committee determined that the Royal timely support for global financial markets and Bank of Scotland should be replaced by JPMorgan reduce the volatility and turbulence that had Chase & Co. in the remuneration comparator group.
These actions were largely successful and contributed to improved market The positioning of total compensation salary, liquidity, a recovery in market confidence which was bonus and the expected value of long term reflected in a broad reduction in credit spreads, and a incentives for the executive Directors depends on re-opening of global capital markets which allowed the performance of the Group and individual banks and corporates alike to raise the equity and performance assessed against a combination of debt capital essential to their future.
In determining financial and non-financial objectives within an remuneration levels for 2009, the Committee took annual balanced scorecard.
Remuneration is these events and their context into account.
The structured to provide an opportunity for top quartile Committee also recognised that the actions taken total compensation for higher levels of performance.
by governments and central banks were primarily The performance-related aspects of the designed to assist overlent banks in developed remuneration package consist of an annual bonus of markets and that many of the measures applied were up to four times salary and Performance Share not only of no assistance but were detrimental to awards with a face value of up to seven times salary.
banks such as HSBC with highly liquid, emerging Taking into account the expected value of awards, market-facing banking operations.
In particular the performance-related elements of pay make up a HSBCs retail businesses earned less interest income considerable proportion of the total remuneration on the excess of deposits over lending because of package whilst maintaining an appropriate balance low interest rates and this reduced profitability when between fixed and variable elements.
Annual bonus set against the largely fixed cost base of the retail payments and Performance Share awards are not infrastructure.
