A certain number of these products have been How the risks are managed Audited discontinued, including the US$553 million immediate annuity portfolio in HSBC Finance HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries where, as highlighted in the above table, the current manage market risk by using some or all of the portfolio yield is less than the guarantee.
On following techniques, depending on the nature of the acquisition of this block of business by HSBC contracts they write: Finance, a provision was established to mitigate the for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to shortfall in yields.
There has been no further manage the liabilities to policyholders.
Bonus deterioration in the shortfall since acquisition.
There rates are managed by regularly evaluating their are a limited number of additional contracts where sustainability.
The effect is that a significant the current portfolio yield is less than the guarantee portion of the market risk is borne by the implied by the contract.
policyholder: The proceeds from insurance and investment as far as possible, matching assets to liabilities.
products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds For example, for products with annual return or with a proportion allocated to equity securities in capital guarantees, HSBC seeks to invest in order to provide customers with the potential for bonds which produce returns at least equal to enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of the investment returns implied by the guarantees such products are exposed to the risk of falls in the while remaining attentive to the overall portfolio market price of equity securities when they cannot credit quality: be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses.
An increase in market volatility could also result in an using derivatives in a limited number of increase in the value of the guarantee to the instances: policyholder.
when designing new products with investment Long-term insurance and investment products guarantees, evaluating the cost of the guarantee typically permit the policyholder to surrender the and considering this cost when determining the policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender level of premiums or the price structure: value is not linked to the value realised from the sale periodically reviewing products identified as of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is higher risk, which contain guarantees and exposed to market risk.
In particular, when embedded optionality features linked to savings customers seek to surrender their policies when asset and investment products.
The scope of the values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a review would include pricing, risk management loss to fund redemptions.
and profitability a control introduced during A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term 2008.
Guaranteed products which expose the insurance and investment products, especially with Group to risk beyond the levels deemed DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local acceptable in any of these categories are either market by investing in assets in countries other than altered or are no longer offered to customers: that in which it is based.
These assets may be including features designed to mitigate market denominated in currencies other than the risk in new products, such as charging surrender subsidiarys local currency.
It is often not cost penalties to recoup losses incurred when effective for the subsidiary to hedge the foreign policyholders surrender their policies: and exchange exposure associated with these assets, and this exposes it to the risk that its local currency will exiting, to the extent possible, investment strengthen against the currency of the related assets.
portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable for example, by implementing asset For unit-linked contracts, market risk is reallocation strategies in order to manage risk substantially borne by the policyholder, but HSBC exposures.
typically remains exposed to market risk as the market value of the linked assets influences the fees The product approval process includes the HSBC earns for managing them.
identification and assessment of the risk embedded in new products.
Group Insurance Head Office includes a Chief Market and Liquidity Risk Officer reporting to the Chief Risk Officer.
