HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Impact of market turmoil Trading portfolios Stress testing 2009.
However, the overall impact was limited as a result of further managing down the market risk In recognition of the limitations of VAR, HSBC exposures in all asset classes during this period.
augments it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of more Continued high levels of volatility in interest extreme, although plausible, events or movements rates in 2009 caused a small increase in VAR.
in a set of financial variables.
Central banks monetary easing has led to the The process is governed by the Stress Testing progressive stabilisation of financial markets during Review Group forum.
This coordinates the Groups the second half of 2009. Credit spreads and volatility stress testing scenarios in conjunction with regional levels have generally continued to decrease as risk managers, considering actual market risk liquidity improved throughout the period.
exposures and market events in determining the Additionally, this period was characterised by high scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels of government borrowing, uncertainty around levels, as follows: the robustness of economic recovery in major sensitivity scenarios, which consider the impact economies and concerns over the effect of any of any single risk factor or set of factors that are developing inflationary pressures.
As a result, this unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, led to the continuation of high levels of volatility in such as the break of a currency peg: interest rates which, together with the extension of the asset profile in the non-trading books, caused a technical scenarios, which consider the largest small increase in the total VAR.
move in each risk factor, without consideration of any underlying market correlation: Value at risk of the trading and non-trading hypothetical scenarios, which consider potential portfolios macro economic events, for example, a global The VAR, both trading and non-trading, for the flu pandemic: and Group was as follows: historical scenarios, which incorporate historical Value at risk observations of market movements during Audited previous periods of stress which would not be 2009 2008 captured within VAR.
The daily Maximum........................... 204.5 287.1 losses experienced during 2009 were within the stress loss scenarios reported to senior management.
The daily VAR, both trading and non-trading, for the Group was as follows: The following table provides an overview of the reporting of risks within this section: Daily VAR trading and non-trading US$m Portfolio Unaudited Trading Non-trading 350 Risk type Foreign exchange and 300 44 commodity........................ VAR VAR 250 45 Interest rate........................... VAR VAR 200 Equity.................................... VAR Sensitivity 46 Credit spread......................... VAR VAR 150 For footnotes, see page 291.
100 50 The impact of market turmoil on market risk 0 Audited Dec-07 May-08 Aug-08 fide c-08 Apr-09 Aug-0 9 D ec-09 The market turmoil that began in 2007 and The major contributor to the trading and nonaccelerated through 2008 was characterised by trading VAR for the Group was Global Markets.
extreme market volatility and, as a consequence, The histogram on page 253 illustrates the increased levels of VAR notwithstanding reduced frequency of daily revenue arising from Global underlying risk positions.
High levels of market Markets trading, balance sheet management and volatility across all asset classes continued into early other trading activities.
