For impairment losses on available-for-sale credit spread which reflects the markets current risk debt and equity securities, see pages 31 and 35, preferences.
This usually differs from the credit respectively.
Any impairment losses relating to spread applicable in the market at the time the loan ABSs recognised in the income statement are was underwritten and funded.
recorded as Loan impairment charges and other The estimated fair values at 31 December 2009 credit risk provisions.
Impairment losses incurred and 31 December 2008 of loans and advances to on assets held by consolidated securities investment customers in North America reflected the combined conduits excluding Solitaire are offset by a credit effect of these conditions.
As a result, the fair values to the impairment line for the amount of the loss are substantially lower than the carrying amount of borne by capital note holders.
customer loans held on-balance sheet and lower than would otherwise be reported under more normal Fair values of financial instruments not market conditions.
Accordingly, the fair values carried at fair value reported do not reflect HSBCs estimate of the Financial instruments that are not carried at fair underlying long-term value of the assets.
Fair values value on the balance sheet include loans and at the balance sheet date of the assets and liabilities advances to banks and customers, deposits by banks, set out below are estimated for the purpose of customer accounts, debt securities in issue and disclosure as follows: subordinated liabilities.
Their fair values are, Loans and advances to banks and customers however, provided for information by way of note disclosure and are calculated as described below.
The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where The calculation of fair value incorporates available.
In the absence of observable market HSBCs estimate of the amount at which financial transactions, fair value is estimated using assets could be exchanged, or financial liabilities discounted cash flow models.
Performing settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an loans are grouped, as far as possible, into arms length transaction.
It does not reflect the homogeneous pools segregated by maturity and economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to coupon rates.
In general, contractual cash flows flow from the instruments cash flows over their are discounted using HSBCs estimate of the expected future lives.
Other reporting entities discount rate that a market participant would use may use different valuation methodologies and in valuing instruments with similar maturity, assumptions in determining fair values for which repricing and credit risk characteristics.
no observable market prices are available, so comparisons of fair values between entities may The fair value of a loan portfolio reflects not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise both loan impairments at the balance sheet caution when using this data.
date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of As a consequence of the market turmoil there the loans.
For impaired loans, fair value is has been a significant reduction in the secondary estimated by discounting the future cash flows market demand for US consumer lending assets.
over the time period they are expected to be Uncertainty over the extent and timing of future recovered.
credit losses, together with a near absence of liquidity for non-prime ABSs and loans, continued Financial investments to be reflected in a low volume of bid prices at The fair values of listed financial investments 31 December 2009.
It is not possible from the are determined using bid market prices.
The fair indicative market prices that are available to values of unlisted financial investments are distinguish between the relative discount to nominal determined using valuation techniques that take value within the fair value measurement that reflects into consideration the prices and future earnings cash flow impairment due to expected losses to streams of equivalent quoted securities.
maturity, and the discount that the market is demanding for holding an illiquid asset.
Under Deposits by banks and customer accounts impairment accounting for loans and advances, there is no requirement to adjust the carrying value to For the purpose of estimating fair value, reflect illiquidity as HSBCs intention is to fund deposits by banks and customer accounts are assets until the earlier of prepayment, charge-off or grouped by remaining contractual maturity.
The fair value, by contrast, values are estimated using discounted cash reflects both incurred loss and loss expected through flows, applying current rates offered for deposits the life of the asset, a discount for illiquidity and a of similar remaining maturities.
The fair value 179 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Not carried at fair value SPEs HSBC-sponsored SPEs of a deposit repayable on demand is assumed to instruments subject to fair value measurement, such be the amount payable on demand at the balance as values placed on portfolios of core deposits, credit sheet date.
card and customer relationships, are not included in the above because they are not classified as financial Debt securities in issue and subordinated instruments.
Accordingly, an aggregation of fair liabilities value measurements does not approximate to the value of the organisation as a going concern.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, The following is a list of financial instruments or by reference to quoted market prices for whose carrying amount is a reasonable similar instruments.
approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current The fair values in this note are stated at a market rates frequently: specific date and may be significantly different from Assets the amounts which will actually be paid on the Cash and balances at central banks maturity or settlement dates of the instruments.
In Items in the course of collection from other banks many cases, it would not be possible to realise Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness immediately the estimated fair values given the size Endorsements and acceptances of the portfolios measured.
Accordingly, these fair Short-term receivables within Other assets values do not represent the value of these financial Accrued income instruments to HSBC as a going concern.
Liabilities Hong Kong currency notes in circulation For all classes of financial instruments, fair Items in the course of transmission to other banks value represents the product of the value of a single Investment contracts with discretionary participation features instrument, multiplied by the number of instruments within Liabilities under insurance contracts held.
No block discount or premium adjustments are Endorsements and acceptances Short-term payables within Other liabilities made.
