HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Capital management and allocation Pillar 2 Pillar 3 Future developments Capital structure financial system during the past two years have been Capital measurement and allocation used to inform the capital planning process and The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis further develop the stress scenarios employed by the and therefore receives information on the capital Group.
adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, the The responsibility for global capital allocation Group as a whole.
Individual banking subsidiaries principles and decisions rests with GMB.
Through are directly regulated by their local banking its structured internal governance processes, HSBC supervisors, who set and monitor their capital maintains discipline over its investment and capital adequacy requirements.
allocation decisions and seeking to ensure that HSBC calculates capital at a Group level using returns on investment are adequate after taking the Basel II framework of the Basel Committee on account of capital costs.
HSBCs strategy is to Banking Supervision: local regulators are at different allocate capital to businesses on the basis of their stages of implementation and local rules may still economic profit generation, regulatory and economic be on a Basel I basis, notably in the US.
In most capital requirements and cost of capital.
jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries HSBCs capital management process is are also subject to the supervision and capital articulated in an annual Group capital plan which is requirements of local regulatory authorities.
The plan is drawn up with Basel II is structured around three pillars: the objective of maintaining both the appropriate minimum capital requirements, supervisory review amount of capital and the optimal mix between the process and market discipline.
The Capital different components of capital.
When HSBC Requirements Directive CRD implemented Holdings and its major subsidiaries raise non-equity Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect tier 1 capital and subordinated debt, this is done in to the CRD by including the requirements of the accordance with the Groups guidelines on market CRD in its own rulebooks.
and investor concentration, cost, market conditions, timing, effect on composition and maturity profile.
Capital Each subsidiary manages its own capital to support its planned business growth and meet its local HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: regulatory requirements within the context of the tier 1 capital is divided into core tier 1 and other approved annual Group capital plan.
Core tier 1 capital comprises with HSBCs Capital Management Framework, shareholders equity and related minority capital generated by subsidiaries in excess of interests.
The book values of goodwill and planned requirements is returned to HSBC Holdings, intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 normally by way of dividends.
capital and other regulatory adjustments are HSBC Holdings is primarily the provider of made for items reflected in shareholders equity equity capital to its subsidiaries and these which are treated differently for the purposes of investments are substantially funded by HSBC capital adequacy.
Qualifying hybrid capital Holdings own capital issuance and profit retention.
instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual As part of its capital management process, HSBC preference shares and innovative tier 1 securities Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance are included in other tier 1 capital: between the composition of its capital and that of its tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated investment in subsidiaries.
loan capital, related minority interests, allowable During 2009, the Group targeted a tier 1 ratio collective impairment allowances and unrealised within the range 7.5 to 10.0 per cent for the purposes gains arising on the fair valuation of equity of its long-term capital planning.
This was an instruments held as available-for-sale.
Tier 2 increase on the 2008 range of 7.5 to 9.0 per cent, and capital also includes reserves arising from the reflected revised market expectations on capital revaluation of properties.
strength and the higher volatility of capital To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, requirements which resulted from pro-cyclicality the FSAs rules set limits on the amount of hybrid embedded within the Basel II rules.
The tier 1 ratio capital instruments that can be included in tier 1 increased to 10.8 per cent at 31 December 2009 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and also limits 2008: 8.3 per cent and notwithstanding that this overall tier 2 capital to no more than tier 1 capital.
lies outside the target range noted above, HSBC is satisfied that, in light of the current evolution of the The basis of consolidation for financial regulatory framework, this is appropriate.
accounting purposes is described on page 367 and 286
