This included Derivatives Unaudited US$22 billion 2008: US$32 billion of treasury and other eligible bills.
Corporate debt and other Derivative assets at 31 December 2009 were securities were US$84 billion or 32 per cent of US$251 billion, a decline of 49 per cent from overall trading securities, in line with 2008s level of 31 December 2008, primarily in foreign exchange, US$83 billion.
Included within total securities interest rate and credit derivatives.
The main drivers held for trading were US$41 billion 2008: of the reduction were fair value movements across US$50 billion of debt securities issued by banks the entire portfolio arising from lower levels of and other financial institutions.
volatility within the financial markets, steepening yield curves and narrowing credit spreads.
A more detailed analysis of securities held for trading is set out in Note 16 on the Financial Exposure to derivative assets fell by 49 per Statements and an analysis of credit quality is cent in 2009 to US$251 billion.
Loans and advances Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills Unaudited Unaudited At constant exchange rates, gross loans and advances At US$360 billion, total financial investments to customers excluding the financial sector at excluding equity securities were 23 per cent higher 31 December 2009 declined by US$83 billion or at 31 December 2009 than at the end of 2008.
Debt 9 per cent from 31 December 2008. securities, at US$302 billion, represented the largest concentration of financial investments at 84 per cent Personal lending represented 47 per cent of of the total, compared with US$252 billion 86 per total gross loans and advances to customers.
HSBCs holdings of Residential mortgages of US$261 billion represented corporate debt, ABSs and other securities were 28 per cent of total gross advances to customers and spread across a wide range of issuers and constituted the Groups largest concentration in geographical regions, with 37 per cent invested in a single exposure type.
As a result of continued runsecurities issued by banks and other financial off in the US consumer finance exit portfolios, institutions.
In total, holdings in ABSs decreased by personal lending within North America fell to be US$8 billion due to a combination of movements in broadly in line with European exposure.
fair values, principal amortisations and write-downs.
Corporate, commercial and financial lending, Total financial investments excluding equity including settlement accounts, amounted to 52 per securities increased by 23 per cent to cent of total gross loans and advances to customers US$360 billion in 2009. at 31 December 2009.
The largest industry concentrations were to non-bank financial Investments in securities of governments and institutions and commercial real estate lending at government agencies of US$171 billion were 46 per 10 per cent and 8 per cent, respectively, of total cent of overall financial investments, 8 percentage gross lending to customers.
US$58 billion of these Exposure to non-bank financial institutions investments comprised treasury and other eligible principally comprised secured lending on trading bills.
accounts, primarily through repo facilities.
A more detailed analysis of financial Commercial, industrial and international trade investments is set out in Note 19 on the Financial lending declined moderately in 2009, falling as a Statements and an analysis by credit quality is proportion of total lending by a single percentage provided on page 225. point to 21 per cent of total gross loans and advances The insurance businesses held diversified to customers.
Within this category, the largest portfolios of debt and equity securities designated concentration of lending was to the service sector, at fair value 2009: US$25 billion: 2008: which amounted to 6 per cent of total gross lending US$20 billion and debt securities classified as to customers.
financial investments 2009: US$35 billion: 2008: Loans and advances to banks were widely US$28 billion.
A more detailed analysis of distributed across major institutions in 2009. securities held by the insurance businesses is set out on page 273.
Further discussion of significant movements in credit quality of the personal lending and wholesale 209 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Concentration of exposure lending portfolios is set out in Areas of Special of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the Interest on pages 214 to 218. operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East The following tables analyse loans by industry and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending sector and by the location of the principal operations branch.
Country distribution of outstandings and individually represent in excess of 1 per cent of cross-border exposures HSBCs total assets.
The classification is based on Unaudited the country of residence of the borrower but also recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of HSBC controls the risk associated with cross-border third-party guarantees, eligible collateral held and lending, essentially that foreign currency will not be residence of the head office when the borrower is a made available to local residents to make payments, branch.
In accordance with the Bank of England through a centralised structure of internal country Country Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, limits which are determined by taking into account outstandings comprise loans and advances relevant economic and political factors.
Exposures to excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable individual countries and cross-border exposure in under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, aggregate are kept under continual review.
CDs and debt and equity securities net of short The following table summarises the aggregate positions, and exclude accrued interest and of in-country foreign currency and cross-border intra-HSBC exposures.
