HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Net income from financial instruments at FV Gains less losses from financial instruments transactions HSBC had entered into with the US dollar appreciated and on interest rate swaps institutional clients.
as interest rates fell in late 2008.
The decline in non-qualifying hedges related to Widening credit spreads led to further gains on mark-to-market losses on cross-currency swaps as credit default swap transactions in parts of the Global Banking portfolio.
HSBC designates certain financial instruments at fair as part of the documented interest rate value to remove or reduce accounting mismatches in management strategy.
As a consequence, gains measurement or recognition, or where financial and losses arising from changes in own credit instruments are managed and their performance is spread on long-term debt are not regarded evaluated together on a fair value basis.
All income internally as part of managed performance and and expense from financial instruments designated at are excluded from underlying results.
Similarly, fair value are included in this line except for interest such gains and losses are ignored in the arising from HSBCs issued debt securities and calculation of regulatory capital: related derivatives managed in conjunction with for US$15 billion 2008: US$11 billion of those debt securities, which is recognised in Interest financial assets held to meet liabilities under expense.
insurance contracts, and certain liabilities under HSBC principally uses the fair value investment contracts with discretionary designation in the following instances for which participation features: and all numbers are reported : for US$8 billion 2008: US$7 billion of for certain fixed-rate long-term debt issues financial assets held to meet liabilities under whose rate profile has been changed to floating unit-linked and other investment contracts, as through interest rate swaps as part of a well as the associated liabilities.
documented interest rate management strategy.
Approximately US$63 billion 2008: 2009 compared with 2008 US$59 billion of the Groups debt issues have A net expense from financial instruments designated been accounted for using the fair value option.
at fair value of US$3.5 billion was reported The movement in fair value of these debt issues compared with income of US$3.9 billion in 2008. includes the effect of own credit spread changes A significant change in credit spread on and any ineffectiveness in the economic HSBCs own debt in 2009 reversed the relationship between the related swaps and movement in 2008. own debt.
As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting profits or losses, respectively, are On an underlying basis, HSBC reported income booked.
The size and direction of the accounting of US$3.0 billion in 2009 compared with an expense consequences of changes in own credit spread of US$2.6 billion in 2008.
The large difference and ineffectiveness can be volatile from year to between the reported and underlying results is due to year, but do not alter the cash flows envisaged the exclusion of the effect of credit spread-related 30
