provision of direct channels such as the internet and Products and services self-service terminals, in addition to traditional and Personal Financial Services automated branches and service centres accessed by telephone.
Personal Financial Services provides 98 million individual and self-employed customers with HSBC is a major global credit card issuer with financial services in over 60 markets worldwide.
over 100 million credit cards in force in over 50 markets.
In addition to HSBC branded cards, a In markets where HSBC already has scale or, in number of markets offer co-branded credit cards and emerging markets where scale can be built over third-party private label cards or store cards time, HSBC offers its range of personal financial through merchant relationships.
products and services to all customer segments.
In other markets, HSBC participates more selectively, High net worth individuals and their families targeting only those customer segments which have who choose the differentiated services offered within strong international connectivity or where HSBCs Private Banking are not included in this customer global scale is crucial.
Typically, offerings include personal banking Commercial Banking products current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, and local and HSBC is one of the worlds leading and most international payment services and wealth international banks, with over 3 million Commercial management services insurance and investment Banking customers in 63 countries and territories, products and financial planning services.
including sole proprietors, partnerships, clubs and associations, incorporated businesses and publicly HSBC Premier Premier provides premium quoted companies.
banking services to its customers including personalised relationship management, a single HSBC divides its Commercial Banking business online view of all international accounts, free into corporate, mid-market, business banking upper international funds transfer between HSBC accounts, and business banking mass segments, allowing the 24-hour priority telephone access, global travel development of tailored customer propositions while assistance and wealth management services.
There adopting a broader view of the entire commercial are now over 3.3 million Premier customers, who banking sector, from sole traders to top-end midcan use more than 370 specially designated Premier market corporations.
This allows HSBC to provide branches and centres in 43 markets.
continuous support to companies as they grow in size both domestically and internationally, and HSBC Advance offers a range of premium ensures a clear focus on the business banking services including preferential day-to-day and sectors, which are typically the key to innovation international banking while allowing solutions to be and growth in market economies.
customised to meet local requirements.
HSBC places particular emphasis on Wealth management services play an important geographical collaboration to meet its business part in meeting the needs of customers.
Insurance customers needs and aims to be recognised as the products distributed by HSBC through its direct leading international business bank and the best bank channels and branch networks include life, property for business in target markets.
The range of products and health insurance as well as pensions and credit and services includes: protection.
HSBC also makes available a wide range of investment products.
A choice of third-party and Financing: HSBC provides a range of short and proprietary funds offer customers the ability to longer-term financing options for Commercial diversify their investments across a range of best-inBanking customers, both domestically and crossclass fund managers chosen after a rigorous and border, including overdrafts, receivables finance, objective selection process.
Comprehensive financial term loans and property finance.
The Group offers planning services covering customers investment, forms of asset finance in selected sites and has retirement, personal and asset protection needs are established specialised divisions providing leasing offered through qualified financial planning and instalment finance for vehicles, plant and managers.
Personal customers prefer to conduct their Payments and cash management: HSBC is a financial business at times convenient to them, using leading provider of domestic and cross-border the sales and service channels of their choice.
This payments, collections, liquidity management and demand for flexibility is met through the increased account services worldwide.
