HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US policies and directions as the Board may from time company listed on the NYSE must annually certify to time determine.
Matters reserved for approval by that he or she is not aware of any violation by the the Board are described on page 302. company of NYSE corporate governance standards.
The Group Chief Executive reports to each In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to meeting of the Board on the activities of the Group foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings Group Management Board.
Chief Executive is not required to provide the NYSE with this annual compliance certification.
However, Group Audit Committee in accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, the Group The Group Audit Committee meets regularly with Chief Executive is required promptly to notify the HSBCs senior financial, credit and risk, internal NYSE in writing after any executive officer becomes audit, legal and compliance management and the aware of any material non-compliance with the external auditor to consider HSBC Holdings NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to financial reporting, the nature and scope of audit HSBC Holdings.
reviews and the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, compliance and risk management.
HSBC Holdings is required to submit annual The members of the Group Audit Committee and interim written affirmations of compliance with throughout 2009 were R A Fairhead Chairman, applicable NYSE corporate governance standards, J D Coombe and J W J Hughes-Hallett.
J R Lomax similar to the affirmations required of NYSE-listed was appointed a member of the Committee on US companies.
On 1 March 2010, M K T Cheung was appointed a member of the Committee in Board committees succession to J W J Hughes-Hallett.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive The Board has appointed a number of committees Directors.
consisting of certain Directors, Group Managing Directors and, in the case of the Corporate The Committee has discussed the risk Sustainability Committee, certain co-opted management recommendations of the Walker non-director members.
The following are the Review.
Following the Committees recommendation principal committees: of appropriate terms of reference, a separate Group Risk Committee was established by the Board on Group Management Board 26 February 2010.
The terms of reference of the Group Risk Committee are available at The Group Management Board meets frequently and www.
The members of the operates as a general management committee under Group Risk Committee are R A Fairhead the direct authority of the Board.
The objective of Chairman, J D Coombe, J W J Hughes-Hallett and the Group Management Board is to maintain a J R Lomax, all of whom are independent nonreporting and control structure whereby all of the executive Directors.
The following section on the line operations of HSBC are accountable to work of the Group Audit Committee describes its individual members of the Group Management activities and responsibilities up to the establishment Board who report to the Group Chief Executive who of the Group Risk Committee.
Going forward the in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The Board Group Audit Committee will focus primarily on has set objectives and measures for the Group financial reporting matters and the Group Risk Management Board.
These align senior executives Committee on internal control and risk management objectives and measures with the strategy and matters.
The members of the Group Management Board are M F Geoghegan The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, Chairman, D J Flint, A A Flockhart and J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, J W J Hughes-Hallett S T Gulliver, who are executive Directors, and and J R Lomax are independent according to SEC A Almeida, E Alonso, K M Harvey, A C Hungate, criteria.
In addition, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, B P McDonagh, B Robertson, P A Thurston and R A Fairhead, and J W J Hughes-Hallett may be P T S Wong, all of whom are Group Managing regarded as audit committee financial experts for the Directors.
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Group Management Board exercises the powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so Appointments to the Committee are made for far as they concern the management and day-to-day periods of up to three years, extendable by no more running of HSBC Holdings in accordance with such 310 than two additional three-year periods, so long as Committee agrees a schedule of presentations to be members continue to be independent.
made to it by management during the ensuing year on the operation of the risk control framework within Formal and tailored induction programmes are the Group.
The presentations specifically address held for newly-appointed Committee members and risk indicators and performance measures such as appropriate training is provided on an ongoing and indicators of credit, liquidity and interest rate risk.
During 2009 the Committee received frequent There were eight meetings of the Group Audit presentations on global market risk and liquidity and Committee during 2009.
The table on page 304 gives reports on the US Mortgage Services business, credit details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
performance in the US and the impact of the Following each meeting the Committee reports to tightening of liquidity in the money markets.
the Board on its activities.
Comprehensive reports are received at each regular meeting from the Group Chief Risk Officer, the At each meeting, the Committee has the Head of Group Compliance, the Group General opportunity to meet with the external auditor, Counsel and the Group General Manager, Group without management present, to facilitate the Head of Audit.
Periodic presentations are made by discussion of any matter relating to its remit and any other function heads and line management.
issue arising from the audit.
Similar arrangements have been adopted for the Committee to meet with In February 2009, the Committee considered a the internal auditor.
The Committee also has the working capital Board memorandum in connection opportunity to meet with the Group Chief Executive with the Companys rights issue.
The memorandum at each of its meetings.
summarised the liquidity, funding and capital position of HSBC to support a statement by the The terms of reference of the Committee, Directors on the sufficiency of working capital.
The which are reviewed annually, are available at memorandum defined possible stress events which www.
To ensure could materially impact HSBCs liquidity, funding consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary and capital position, described the mitigants company audit committees, the Group Audit available and the strategic actions that management Committee has established core terms of reference to could take in response to such material stresses.
guide subsidiary audit committees when adopting terms of reference.
The Committees endorsement is The reports from the Group General Manager, required for any proposed changes to subsidiary Group Head of Audit include information on frauds audit committee terms of reference and for and weakness in internal controls identified through appointments to such committees.
Subsidiary audit internal audit reports, special investigations or committees are required to provide bi-annual reviews of regulatory reports and external auditors certificates to the Committee or to an intermediate reports.
The Committee monitors and reviews the subsidiary audit committee, relating to the financial effectiveness of the internal audit function and statements and internal control procedures of the receives summaries of periodic peer reviews of relevant subsidiary audit committee.
HSBCs principal internal audit functions.
HSBC has adopted the Principles of the International The Group Audit Committee is accountable to Institute of Internal Auditors, which include a the Board and assists it in meeting its responsibilities periodic external quality assurance review of the for maintaining an effective system of internal internal audit function.
The first such review, control and compliance and for meeting its external undertaken by Independent Audit Limited, was financial reporting obligations.
The Committee presented to the Committee in 2008. undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control, which is The Committee receives regular updates on described on page 313.
The Committee reviews the changes in law, regulations and accounting standards Companys financial statements before they are and practices and the preparations being made to considered by the Board and the Interim respond to those requirements.
During 2009, the Management Statements before they are approved Committee received regular updates on the review of by management.
internal financial reporting controls required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Regular reports are received on the risks implementation of the Basel II capital adequacy involved in HSBCs business and how they are requirements.
The Committee also received updates controlled and monitored by management which on a gap analysis against various risk management and enable the Committee to review the effectiveness of governance recommendations from reports issued in HSBCs risk management framework.
Each year the 2008 in response to the current financial crisis, 311 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees Internal control including the Credit Risk Management Policy Group necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
III report and the report of the Institute of International These pre-approval policies apply to all services Finance committee on Market Best Practices.
where HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries pays for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the The Committee has approved procedures for the service and has selected or influenced the choice of receipt, retention and handling of complaints KPMG.
All services entered into with KPMG during regarding accounting, internal accounting controls 2009 were pre-approved by the Committee or were and auditing matters.
The Committee receives entered into under pre-approval policies established regular reports regarding the nature, investigation by the Committee.
A quarterly update on non-audit and resolution of material complaints and concerns services provided by KPMG is presented to the from the Head of Group Compliance.
The Committee is directly responsible on behalf The pre-approved services relate to regulatory of the Board for the selection, oversight and reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee of attestation reports, the provision of advice and reviews and monitors the external auditors other non-audit services allowed under SEC independence and objectivity and the effectiveness independence rules.
They fall into the categories of of the audit process, taking into consideration audit services, audit-related services, tax services relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews the strategy and An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect approves the terms for the engagement of the of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG external auditor for the audit of the Annual Report for each of the last three years is disclosed in Note 9 and Accounts.
Regular reports on the progress of the on the Financial Statements.
audit facilitate the Committees assessment of the effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the The Committee receives reports from the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
external auditor on its own policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control and Remuneration Committee oversees the appropriate rotation of audit partners within the external auditor.
The external auditor The role of the Remuneration Committee and its provides the Committee with an annual confirmation membership are set out in the Directors of its independence in accordance with industry Remuneration Report on page 334. standards.
Nomination Committee On the recommendation of the Committee the Board has approved a policy for the employment by The Nomination Committee is responsible for HSBC of former employees of the external auditor leading the process for Board appointments and for or its affiliates.
The Committee monitors this policy identifying and nominating, for approval by the through the receipt of an annual report of those Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
former employees of the external auditor employed Before recommending an appointment to the Board, by HSBC and the number of former employees of the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, the external auditor currently employed in senior knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the positions in HSBC.
The reports enable the light of this, identifies the role and capabilities Committee to consider whether there has been any required for a particular appointment.
Candidates are impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the considered on merit against these criteria.
Care is auditors judgement or independence in respect of taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to the audit.
Prospective Directors are asked to identify any significant other commitments and The Group Audit Committee has established confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what policies for the pre-approval of specific services that is expected of them.
In accordance with the Articles may be provided by the principal auditor, KPMG of Association all Directors are subject to election Audit Plc and its affiliates KPMG.
These policies by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are kept under review and amended as necessary to following their appointment by the Board and to meet the dual objectives of ensuring that HSBC re-election at least every three years.
The members benefits in a cost effective manner from the of the Nomination Committee throughout 2009 were cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, Sir Brian Williamson Chairman, R A Fairhead, while also ensuring that the auditor maintains the S M Robertson and J W J Hughes-Hallett, all 312
