HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value US$3.6 billion and US$1.9 billion to information to validate the financial instruments fair communications and infrastructure 2008: value, with greater weight given to information that US$1.7 billion.
During the year, 99 per cent is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The of the total fair value movement not recognised was factors that are considered in this regard are, inter against exposures in these two sectors 2008: 99 per alia: cent.
Subsequent to the end of the year, as part of the extent to which prices may be expected to portfolio management, US$0.6 billion of the data represent genuine traded or tradeable prices: processing exposure was sold.
the degree of similarity between financial Fair values of financial instruments instruments: Audited the degree of consistency between different The classification of financial instruments is sources: determined in accordance with the accounting the process followed by the pricing provider to policies set out in Note 2 on the Financial derive the data: Statements.
The use of assumptions and estimation in valuing financial instruments is described on the elapsed time between the date to which the page 163.
The following is a description of HSBCs market data relates and the balance sheet date: methods of determining fair value and its related and control framework, and a quantification of its the manner in which the data was sourced.
exposure to financial instruments measured at fair value.
Models provide a logical framework for the capture and processing of necessary valuation inputs.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset For fair values determined using a valuation model, could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between the control framework may include, as applicable, knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length independent development or validation of i the transaction.
logic within valuation models: ii the inputs to those Financial instruments measured at fair value models: iii any adjustments required outside the on an ongoing basis include trading assets and valuation models: and iv where possible, model liabilities, instruments designated at fair value, outputs.
Valuation models are subject to a process of derivatives and financial investments classified due diligence and calibration before becoming as available for sale including treasury and other operational and are calibrated against external eligible bills, debt securities, and equity securities.
market data on an ongoing basis.
The results of the independent validation Fair values of financial instruments carried process are reported to, and considered by, Valuation at fair value Committees.
Valuation Committees are composed of Control framework valuation experts from several independent support functions Product Control, Market Risk Fair values are subject to a control framework Management, Quantitative Risk and Valuation designed to ensure that they are either determined or Group and Finance in addition to senior validated by a function independent of the risk-taker.
The members of each Valuation To this end, ultimate responsibility for the Committee consider the appropriateness and determination of fair values lies with Finance, which adequacy of the fair value adjustments and the reports functionally to the Chief Financial Officer, effectiveness of valuation models.
If necessary, they Executive Director, Risk and Regulation.
Finance may require changes to model calibration or establishes the accounting policies and procedures calibration procedures.
The Valuation Committees governing valuation and is responsible for ensuring are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review that they comply with all relevant accounting Group, which consists of Heads of Global Banking standards.
and Markets Finance and Risk Functions.
All For all financial instruments where fair values subjective valuation items with a potential impact in are determined by reference to externally quoted excess of US$5 million are reported to the Valuation prices or observable pricing inputs to models, Committee Review Group.
independent price determination or validation is utilised.
In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible.
In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market 166 Determination of fair value may, for example, be used.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a Fair values are determined according to the valuation technique with significant unobservable following hierarchy: inputs may be attributable to observable inputs.
Level 1 quoted market price: financial Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in instruments with quoted prices for identical determining unobservable inputs will generally be instruments in active markets.
less than the overall fair value of the financial instrument being measured.
To help in Level 2 valuation technique using observable understanding the extent and the range of this inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices uncertainty, additional information is provided in the for similar instruments in active markets or section headed Effect of changes in significant quoted prices for identical or similar instruments unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible in inactive markets and financial instruments alternatives below.
valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
In certain circumstances, primarily where debt is hedged with interest rate derivatives, HSBC records Level 3 valuation technique with significant its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted unobservable inputs: financial instruments prices in an active market for the specific instrument valued using valuation techniques where one or concerned, if available.
When quoted market prices more significant inputs are unobservable.
are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either in an actively traded market.
In the event that the based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for market for a financial instrument is not active, a the instrument, or are estimated by comparison with valuation technique is used.
quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the The judgement as to whether a market is effect of applying the credit spread which is active may include, but is not restricted to, the appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
For all issued debt consideration of factors such as the magnitude and securities, discounted cash flow modelling is used to frequency of trading activity, the availability of separate the change in fair value that may be prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
The bid offer attributed to HSBCs credit spread movements from spread represents the difference in prices at which a movements in other market factors such as market participant would be willing to buy compared benchmark interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
with the price at which they would be willing to sell.
Specifically, the change in fair value of issued debt In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the securities attributable to the Groups own credit transaction price provides evidence of fair value or spread is computed as follows: for each security at determining the adjustments to transaction prices each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is that are necessary to measure the fair value of the obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for instrument requires additional work during the similar securities for the same issuer.
discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a The majority of valuation techniques employ LIBOR-based discount curve.
The difference in the only observable market data.
However, certain valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit financial instruments are valued on the basis of spread.
This methodology is applied consistently valuation techniques that feature one or more across all securities.
significant market inputs that are unobservable, and Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid for them, the derivation of fair value is more instrument liabilities are included within trading judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The credit classified as valued using significant unobservable spread applied to these instruments is derived from inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
proportion of the instruments carrying amount These market spreads are smaller than credit spreads and or inception profit day 1 gain or loss is observed for plain vanilla debt or in the credit driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in default swap markets.
this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the Gains and losses arising from changes in the price at which an arms length transaction would be credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the is no market data available at all upon which to base debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
a determination of fair value consensus pricing data 167
