Some of the key attributes that uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value for may differ between these methodologies are: private equity investments.
the probability of default may be calculated Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills, from historical market data, or implied from and equities current market levels for certain transaction types such as credit default swaps, either with or The fair value of these instruments is based on without an adjusting factor: quoted market prices from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group or pricing service, when some entities derive their own probability of available.
When they are unavailable, the fair value default from a non-zero spread, which has the is determined by reference to quoted market prices effect of reducing the overall adjustment: for similar instruments, adjusted as appropriate for differing loss assumptions in setting the level of the specific circumstances of the instruments.
loss given defaults, which may utilise levels set Illiquidity and a lack of transparency in the by regulators for capital calculation purposes: market for ABSs have resulted in less observable and data being available.
While quoted market prices are counterparty exclusions, whereby certain generally used to determine the fair value of these counterparty types for example collateralised securities, valuation models are used to substantiate counterparties are excluded from the the reliability of the limited market data available calculation.
and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
HSBC has estimated the impact of adopting two alternative methodologies on the level of its credit In the absence of quoted market prices, fair risk adjustment excluding the monoline credit risk value is determined using valuation techniques based adjustment, as follows: on the calculation of the present value of expected future cash flows of the assets.
The inputs to these adapting HSBCs existing methodology to valuation techniques are derived from observable utilise probabilities of default implied from market data and, where relevant, assumptions in credit default swaps with no adjustment factor respect of unobservable inputs.
In respect of ABSs applied and also implying HSBCs own including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an probability of default from credit default swaps, industry standard model and the assumptions relating results in an additional adjustment of to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity US$170 million: and based on collateral type, and performance, as adapting HSBCs existing methodology to appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked include HSBCs own probability of default from for consistency against observable data for securities a non-zero spread based on historical data, of a similar nature.
excluding collateralised counterparties, and applying loss given default assumptions Derivatives consistent with those used in regulatory capital OTC i. e. non-exchange traded derivatives are calculations, results in a reduction of the credit valued using valuation models.
Valuation models risk adjustment of US$300 million.
calculate the present value of expected future cash A detailed description of the valuation flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For techniques applied to instruments of particular many vanilla derivative products, such as interest interest follows: rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For Private equity more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to HSBCs private equity positions are generally valuation models are determined from observable classified as available for sale and are not traded in market data wherever possible, including prices active markets.
In the absence of an active market, available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or an investments fair value is estimated on the basis providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may of an analysis of the investees financial position and not be observable in the market directly, but can be results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as determined from observable prices via model well as by reference to market valuations for similar calibration procedures.
Finally, some inputs are not entities quoted in an active market, or the price at observable, but can generally be estimated from which similar companies have changed ownership.
historical data or other sources.
Examples of inputs The exercise of judgement is required because of 171
