2008 compared with 2007 certain pension products, which led to these products being reclassified as insurance contracts, also Reported net earned insurance premiums amounted resulted in higher premiums.
to US$10.9 billion, 20 per cent higher than in 2007.
HSBC acquired the remaining interest in HSBC The Hong Kong insurance business also Assurances in France in March 2007 and, in October performed well with respect to premium growth, due 2007, sold the Hamilton Insurance Company to stronger sales of products with DPF and an Limited and Hamilton Life Assurance Company increase in regular premiums partly offset by a Limited in the UK.
On an underlying basis, net reduction in unit-linked premiums.
earned insurance premiums increased by 14 per cent.
In France, HSBC Assurances performed well in Growth in net earned insurance premiums was a declining market, as three promotional campaigns driven by a continued strong performance from the during the year contributed to growth in sales of UK life assurance business, mainly as a result of policies with DPF.
However, a significant one-off higher sales of the Guaranteed Income Bond, a nonreinsurance transaction undertaken during 2008 linked product that was launched in June 2007.
The caused net earned insurance premiums to decrease introduction of enhanced life assurance benefits to compared with 2007.
Reported other operating income of US$2.8 billion was 54 per cent higher than in 2008.
This included Property gains of US$576 million were a US$280 million gain related to the sale of the recognised in respect of the sale and leaseback remaining stake in the card merchant-acquiring of 8 Canada Square, London which was effected business in the UK, compared with a US$425 million through the disposal of HSBCs entire shareholding gain in 2008 from the sale of the first tranche.
In in Project Maple II B. V. PMII to the National 2008 results also included gains of US$71 million Pension Service of Korea.
In 2008, HSBC reported a related to the sale of HSBCs stake in Financiera gain of US$416 million in respect of the purchase of Independencia.
On an underlying basis, other PMII.
See Note 23 on the Financial Statements.
operating income rose by 163 per cent, driven An increase in insurance sales to new customers mainly by an increase in insurance-related income in in Hong Kong resulted in positive movements in the Hong Kong, a rise in gains on property disposals and present value of in-force PVIF long-term lower losses on foreclosed properties.
Further positive movements arose from refining the income recognition Increased insurance income in Hong Kong, methodology used in respect of long-term insurance higher gains on property disposals and contracts in HSBC Finance.
In 2008, a similar lower losses on foreclosed properties in the refinement in Brazil and HSBCs introduction of US helped drive an underlying enhanced benefits to existing pension products in the US$1.5 billion rise in other operating UK, resulted in favourable movements in PVIF.
In Hong Kong, a gain of US$110 million was Losses recognised on assets held for sale recognised in respect of a property disposal, and in declined as losses on foreclosed properties in HSBC Argentina a gain was realised on the sale of the head Finance decreased, partly due to lower inventory office building.
levels following delays in the foreclosure process Other operating income includes higher gains on the sale of prime residential mortgage portfolios in 33
