The reduction in the quantum of net liquid that can mature in any rolling three-month and assets in HSBC Bank USA between 2008 and 2009 rolling 12-month periods.
HSBC Finance also reflects the temporary high level of net liquid assets maintains access to committed sources of secured maintained at the end of 2008 in anticipation of funding and has in place committed backstop lines funding requirements for the credit card portfolios for short-term refinancing CP programmes.
transferred to HSBC Bank USA from HSBC Finance in early 2009.
HSBC Finance funding Audited At 31 December Projected cash flow scenario analysis 2009 2008 US$bn US$bn The Group uses a number of standard projected cash Maximum amounts of unsecured term flow scenarios designed to model both Groupfunding maturing in any rolling: specific and market-wide liquidity crises, in which 3 month period................................. 5.2 6.0 the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and 12 month period............................... 12.3 17.4 drawdowns on committed lending facilities are Unused committed sources of secured 38 funding........................................... 0.4 2.4 varied, and the ability to access interbank funding Committed backstop lines from nonand term debt markets and to generate funds from Group entities in support of CP asset portfolios is restricted.
The scenarios are programmes...................................... 5.3 7.3 modelled by all Group banking entities and by For footnote, see page 291.
The appropriateness of the assumptions under each scenario is regularly The need for HSBC Finance to refinance reviewed.
In addition to the Groups standard maturing term funding is mitigated by the continued projected cash flow scenarios, individual entities run-down of its balance sheet.
are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and Contingent liquidity risk funding bases.
Audited Limits for cumulative net cash flows under In the normal course of business, Group entities stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and provide customers with committed facilities, for HSBC Finance.
Both ratio and cash flow limits including committed backstop lines to conduit reflect the local market place, the diversity of vehicles sponsored by the Group and standby funding sources available and the concentration risk facilities to corporate customers.
These facilities from large depositors.
Compliance with entity level increase the funding requirements of the Group limits is monitored centrally by Group Finance and when customers choose to raise drawdown levels reported regularly to the RMM.
over and above their normal utilisation rates.
The liquidity risk consequences of increased levels of HSBC Finance drawdown are analysed in the form of projected cash As HSBC Finance is unable to accept standard flows under different stress scenarios.
The RMM retail customer deposits, it takes funding from the also sets limits for non-cancellable contingent professional markets.
HSBC Finance uses a range funding commitments by Group entity after due of measures to monitor funding risk, including consideration of each entitys ability to fund them.
projected cash flow scenario analysis and caps The limits are split according to the borrower, the placed on the amount of unsecured term funding liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the committed line.
