HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk Risk management Risk appetite Scenario stress testing Control culture Credit risk Management balance sheets.
In their oversight and stewardship of qualitatively, describing which risks are taken and risk management at Group level, however, GMB and why, and quantitatively.
HSBC senior management RMM are supported by a dedicated Global Risk attaches quantitative metrics to individual risk types function headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer to ensure that: GCRO, who is a member of both bodies and underlying business activity may be guided and reports to the Chief Financial Officer, Executive controlled, so that it continues to be aligned to Director, Risk and Regulation within the integrated the risk appetite framework: Finance and Risk function, which the latter represents on the Board.
key assumptions underpinning risk appetite can be monitored and, as necessary, adjusted Global Risk has functional responsibility for the through subsequent business planning cycles: principal financial risk types, namely retail and and wholesale credit, market, operational, security and fraud risks.
For these it establishes Group policy, business decisions anticipated to be necessary to exercises Group-wide oversight and provides mitigate risk are flagged and acted upon reporting and analysis of portfolio composition promptly.
trends on a global and regional basis to senior The risk appetite framework, governed by the management.
Accountability and consistent control Board and overseen in its implementation on an across the Global Risk function is provided through ongoing basis by GMB and RMM, is also the Global Risk Management Board, chaired by the maintained at regional and customer group levels.
It GCRO, the members of which include the Chief Risk operates through two key mechanisms: Officers of HSBCs regions and the heads of risk disciplines within Group Management Office the framework itself defines the governance GMO.
The regional governance bodies for key risk bodies, processes, metrics and other features of matters reflect those in place at the centre.
Functional how HSBC addresses risk appetite as part of its units at the entity and regional levels report to Group ongoing business: and Risk.
GMO helps build the Groups risk management periodic risk appetite statements define, at capacity through staff selection, training, various levels in the business, the desired level development, performance assessment and of risk commensurate with return and growth remuneration the GCRO is jointly responsible with targets and in line with the corporate strategy business heads for setting the performance goals of and stakeholder objectives.
Global Risk also co-ordinates the continued development of the The risk appetite framework covers both the Groups risk appetite, economic capital and stress beneficial and adverse aspects of risk.
Within it, testing frameworks, and engages in discussions with economic capital is the common currency through regulators and in industry forums on risk and which risk is measured and used as the basis for risk regulatory policy developments, assesses their evaluation, capital allocation and performance implications and makes recommendations measurement across regions and customer groups.
In addition, the GCRO is a member of Risk appetite is executed through the operational the Group Portfolio Oversight Committee, chaired by limits that control the levels of risk run by the the Group Treasurer, which governs the portfolio Group, regions and customer groups and is measured management activities of Global Banking.
Risk appetite Scenario stress testing HSBCs risk appetite framework describes the Scenario analysis and stress testing are important quantum and types of risk that HSBC is prepared to mechanisms in understanding the sensitivities of the take in executing its strategy.
It is central to an Group capital and business plans to the adverse integrated approach to risk, capital and business effects of extreme, but plausible, events.
As well as management and supports the Group in achieving its considering the potential financial effect on plans, a return on equity objectives, as well as being a key key output of this tool is the consideration and element in meeting the Groups obligations under establishment of management action plans for pillar 2 of Basel II.
mitigating such events should they, or similar events, arise.
The formulation of risk appetite considers HSBCs risk capacity, its financial position, the Group Risk regularly assesses regulatory capital strength of its core earnings and the resilience of supply against demand under a range of stress its reputation and brand.
