The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable.
Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when either sold assets or extinguished liabilities.
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
j Financial investments Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value, are classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity.
Financial investments are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their obligations.
i Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income in Available-for-sale investments fair value gains losses until the financial assets are either sold or become impaired.
When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated over the assets expected life.
Premiums and or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates.
Dividends are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment has been established.
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment in the value of a financial asset.
Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial assets acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and the current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity securities are recognised within Gains less losses from financial investments in the income statement.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the available-for-sale financial asset concerned: For an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent of the increase in fair value: For an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost of the equity security.
