HSBC Finance also supports a variety of avoid foreclosure.
A quarterly breakdown of initiatives to help preserve home ownership and foreclosure data is provided below: HSBC Finance foreclosed properties in the US Unaudited Quarter ended 31 Dec 30 Sep 30 Jun 31 Mar 2009 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 Number of foreclosed properties at end of period................ 6,188 9,589 6,188 6,428 7,286 8,866 Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the year quarter.............................................................. 14,845 20,051 3,496 3,546 3,550 4,253 19 Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties US$000.... 12 14 5 8 13 18 20 Average total loss on foreclosed properties........................ 51% 42% 50% 52% 53% 52% Average time to sell foreclosed properties days................. 193 177 172 184 194 201 For footnotes, see page 291. Credit quality of financial instruments granular, internal credit rating grades assigned to Audited wholesale and retail lending business, as well as the external ratings attributed by external agencies to The five credit quality classifications set out and debt securities.
defined below describe the credit quality of HSBCs lending, debt securities portfolios and derivatives.
There is no direct correlation between the Since 2008, the medium classification has been internal and external ratings at granular level, except subdivided into medium-good and mediumto the extent each falls within a single quality satisfactory to provide further granularity.
225 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality Risk ratings Financial instruments by credit quality Quality classification definitions Risk rating scales Strong: exposures demonstrate a strong The Customer Risk Rating CRR 10-grade scale capacity to meet financial commitments, with above summarises a more granular underlying negligible or low probability of default and or 22-grade scale of obligor probability of default low levels of expected loss.
All distinct HSBC customers are rated using operate within product parameters and only one of these two PD scales, depending on the degree exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
Medium-good: exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to The Expected Loss EL 10-grade scale for meet financial commitments, with low default retail business summarises a more granular risk.
Retail accounts typically show only short underlying EL scale for these customer segments: periods of delinquency, with any losses this combines obligor and facility product risk expected to be minimal following the adoption factors in a composite measure.
For debt securities and certain other financial Medium-satisfactory: exposures require closer instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair five quality classifications.
The ratings of Standard capacity to meet financial commitments, with and Poors are cited, with those of other agencies moderate default risk.
Retail accounts typically being treated equivalently.
Debt securities with show only short periods of delinquency, with short-term issue ratings are reported against the any losses expected to be minor following the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities.
If adoption of recovery processes.
major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is Sub-standard: exposures require varying made in line with regulatory requirements.
degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Retail portfolio segments show Additional credit quality information in respect longer delinquency periods of generally up to of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs and 90 days past due and or expected losses are assets held in consolidated SIVs and conduits is higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these provided on pages 160 to 161 and 182 to 183, through security realisation or other recovery respectively.
For the purpose of the following disclosure, Impaired: exposures have been assessed, retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are individually or collectively, as impaired.
not otherwise classified as EL9 or EL10, are separately classified as past due but not impaired.
2009 compared with 2008 Factors contributing to the relative improvement in credit quality included the run-off of the consumer Financial instruments on which credit quality has finance exit portfolios in the US, while factors been assessed declined by 8 per cent to contributing to relative deterioration in credit quality US$2,216 billion at 31 December 2009, of which included higher delinquency levels in personal and US$1,466 billion was classified as strong, commercial lending.
representing 66 per cent 2008: 66 per cent of the total of such financial instruments.
This percentage Derivative assets on which credit quality has held constant in 2009 as management actions to been assessed decreased to US$251 billion at the end mitigate the Groups exposure to credit risk offset of 2009 and led to a reduction in balances in each of the effects on credit quality of the global economic the credit risk categories.
The decline in the overall slowdown.
The proportion of financial instruments balance was driven mainly by a reduction in foreign classified as medium-good increased by nearly a exchange, interest rate and credit derivatives as percentage point to 16.4 per cent.
The proportion of lower levels of volatility within the financial medium-satisfactory declined by a percentage markets, steepening yield curves and narrowing point to 12.5 per cent.
The proportion of subcredit spreads led to a fall in the fair value of standard rose marginally.
228 Financial investments on which credit quality Past due but not impaired gross financial has been assessed increased by 23 per cent to instruments Audited US$360 billion, with a significant increase in the balance classified as strong.
This reflected the Examples of exposures past due but not impaired investment of surplus funds in governmentinclude overdue loans fully secured by cash guaranteed, agency, supra-national and government collateral: mortgages that are individually assessed debt securities in line with the banks risk appetite.
for impairment, and that are in arrears more than 90 days, but where the value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal debt and all potential interest for at least one year: and short-term trade facilities past due more than 90 days for technical reasons such as delays in documentation, but where there is no concern over the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
