HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Credit risk submitted to Group Credit Risk for concurrence.
The A number of tools are used to manage and form and content of the mandates must accord with monitor credit risk.
These include an Early Warning centrally set investment credit risk guidance Report which is produced on a weekly basis to regarding credit quality, industry sector identify investments which may be at risk of future concentration and liquidity restrictions, but allow for impairment.
This report is circulated to senior the inclusion of local regulatory and country-specific management in Group Insurance Head Office and conditions.
The assessment of the creditworthiness the Regional Chief Risk Officers, and risk reduction of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon strategies are implemented when considered internationally recognised credit ratings and other appropriate.
Similarly, a watch list of investments publicly available information.
with current credit concerns is circulated weekly.
Investment credit exposures are monitored Credit quality against limits by the local insurance manufacturing Audited subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to The following table presents an analysis of treasury Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within Meeting and the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
HSBCs insurance business by measures of credit Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head quality.
The definitions of the five credit quality Office on the investment credit exposures using classifications are included on page 225.
Only assets credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
supporting non-linked liabilities are included in the The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance table as financial risk on assets supporting linked Risk Committee.
liabilities is predominantly borne by the As noted above, under certain circumstances, policyholder.
90.9 per cent 2008: 93.7 per cent the Group is able to dilute the effect of investment of the assets included in the table are invested in losses by sharing them with policyholders.
However, investments rated as Strong.
when, for example, a contract includes a guarantee, losses which would result in a breach of the guaranteed benefits due to the policyholder are borne by the Group.
The outstanding reinsurance recoveries, analysed by credit risk exposure to reinsurers is monitored by credit quality, is shown below.
The definitions of the Group Insurance Head Office and is reported five credit quality classifications are provided on quarterly to the Group Insurance Risk Committee page 225.
The Groups exposure to third parties and the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting.
under the reinsurance agreement described in the Credit Risk section above is included in this table.
Liquidity risk cash resources: and Audited cash inflows from the sale of investments.
It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the claims liabilities that may arise, and the timing of following techniques: their settlement and this leads to liquidity risk.
matching cash inflows with expected cash There are three aspects considered in liquidity outflows using specific cash flow projections or risk.
The first of these arises in normal market more general asset and liability matching conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity risk: techniques such as duration matching: specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations.
Secondly, maintaining sufficient cash resources: market liquidity risk arises when the size of a investing in good credit-quality investments particular holding may be sufficiently large that a with deep and liquid markets to the degree to sale cannot be completed around the market price.
which they exist: Finally, there is standby liquidity risk, which refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal monitoring investment concentrations and conditions.
restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers: and HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim establishing committed contingency borrowing liabilities from the following sources: facilities.
cash inflows arising from premiums from new Each of these techniques contributes to business, policy renewals and recurring mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described premium products: above.
cash inflows arising from interest and dividends Every quarter, HSBCs insurance manufacturing on investments and principal repayments of subsidiaries are required to complete and submit maturing debt investments: liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office 281 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Liquidity risk PVIF for collation and review by the Group Insurance As indicated in the analyses of life and non-life Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting.
Liquidity risk insurance risks on pages 268 to 269, a significant is assessed in these reports by measuring changes proportion of the Groups non-life insurance in expected cumulative net cash flows under a business is viewed as short-term, with the settlement series of stress scenarios designed to determine the of liabilities expected to occur within one year of the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved by, for maturities for the life business where, in a large example, assuming new business or renewals are proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than conjunction with policyholders wholly in the case expected.
The following tables show the expected The profile of the expected maturity of the undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract insurance contracts as at 31 December 2009 liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of remained comparable with 2008. investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2009.
