When a financial asset is reclassified as described in the above circumstances, the financial asset is reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
Any gain or loss already recognised in the income statement is not reversed.
The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
f Loans and advances to banks and customers Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not classified either as held for trading or designated at fair value.
Loans and advances are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower.
They are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
Where exposures are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment for the hedged risk only.
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC.
Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Where it is not HSBCs intention to trade but hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
This may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower than the cost of funding.
On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
However, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced for example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest, the write-down is charged to the income statement.
The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income using the effective interest method, unless the loan becomes impaired.
The write-down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income.
Financial assets which have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category into the loans and receivables category are initially recorded at the fair value at the date of reclassification.
The reclassified assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification.
g Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans assessed collectively.
Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement.
The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts.
Losses expected from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: 371 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 2 the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate, and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment: and for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of loss has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
This reflects impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
These losses will only be individually identified in the future.
As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis for impairment.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable.
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at which point they are removed from the group.
Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology.
This methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due, and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
The estimated 372 loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience.
In normal circumstances, historical experience provides the most objective and relevant information from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, historical loss experience provides less relevant information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, where there have been changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions, such that the most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not fully reflected in the statistical models.
These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features such as the ability of borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, changes in laws and regulations and other items which can affect customer payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters.
These risk factors, where relevant, are taken into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write off may be earlier.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Reclassified loans and advances Where financial assets have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category to the loans and receivables category, the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification is used to calculate any impairment losses.
Following reclassification, where there is a subsequent increase in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability of those cash receipts, the effect of that increase is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the date of change in the estimate rather than as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset at the date of change in the estimate.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held for sale and reported in Other assets.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, in Other operating income.
Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
