An exception report must be made to the local considered insufficient to cover the existing pension compliance function and escalated to the Head of liabilities as a deficit exists.
Contribution rates are Group Compliance in respect of any breach which typically revised annually or triennially, depending has given rise to a fine and or costs levied by a court on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the HSBC of law or regulatory body where the amount is Bank UK Pension Scheme are revised triennially.
US$1,500 or more, and material or significant issues A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise are reported to the Risk Management Meeting of from a number of factors, including: GMB and or the Group Audit Committee.
investments delivering a return below that In addition, operating companies are required to required to provide the projected plan benefits.
submit quarterly returns detailing outstanding claims This could arise, for example, when there is a where the claim or group of similar claims exceeds fall in the market value of equities, or when US$10 million, where the action is by a regulatory increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall authority, where the proceedings are criminal, where in the value of fixed income securities held: the claim might materially affect the Groups reputation, or, where the GMO Legal department has the prevailing economic environment leading to requested returns be completed for a particular corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs claim.
These returns are used for reporting to the in asset values both equity and debt : Group Audit Committee and the Board, and a change in either interest rates or inflation disclosure in the Interim Report and Annual Report which causes an increase in the value of the and Accounts, if appropriate.
scheme liabilities: and Group security and fraud risk scheme members living longer than expected Unaudited known as longevity risk.
Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group The plans investment strategy is determined level by Group Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, after taking into consideration the market risk which has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, inherent in the investments and its consequential information and contingency risk, and security and impact on potential future contributions.
business intelligence, is fully integrated within the Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy central GMO Risk function.
This enables the Group rests with either the trustees or, in certain to identify and mitigate the permutations of these circumstances, a Management Committee.
The and other non-financial risks to its business lines degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC across the jurisdictions in which it operates.
For example, the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which accounts Pension risk for approximately 70 per cent of the obligations Unaudited of the Groups defined benefit pension plans, is HSBC operates a number of pension plans overseen by a corporate trustee who regularly throughout the world, as described in Note 8 on the monitors the market risks inherent in the scheme.
Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank Reputational risk UK Pension Scheme.
Unaudited In order to fund the benefits associated with The safeguarding of HSBCs reputation is these plans, sponsoring group companies and, in of paramount importance to its continued some instances, employees make regular prosperity and is the responsibility of every contributions in accordance with advice from member of staff.
actuaries and in consultation with the schemes trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans HSBC regularly reviews its policies and procedures invest these contributions in a range of investments for safeguarding against reputational and operational designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
This is an evolutionary process which takes account of relevant developments and industry The level of these contributions has a direct guidance such as The Association of British impact on the cash flow of the Group and would Insurers guidance on best practice when responding normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient to environmental, social and governance ESG funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the risks.
future service of active members.
However, higher contributions will be required when plan assets are 263
