and clearing services and funds administration trading services, cash management, securities to both domestic and cross-border investors.
In addition, HSBC Private Bank works to ensure that its clients have full access Global Banking to other products and services available throughout HSBC such as credit cards, internet banking, HSBCs operations in Global Banking consist of corporate banking, and investment banking.
financing, advisory and transaction services for corporations, institutional and private investors, Private Wealth Management: These comprise financial institutions, and governments and their both advisory and discretionary investment services.
Products include: A wide range of investment vehicles is covered, including bonds, equities, derivatives, options, financing and capital markets, which comprises futures, structured products, mutual funds and capital raising, including debt and equity capital, alternatives hedge funds, private equity and real corporate finance and advisory services, estate.
By accessing regional expertise in six major bilateral and syndicated lending, leveraged and advisory centres in Hong Kong, Singapore, Geneva, acquisition finance, structured and project New York, Paris and London, Private Banking seeks finance, lease finance, and non-retail depositto identify the most suitable investments for clients taking: needs and investment strategies.
Corporate Finance international, regional and domestic payments Solutions helps provide clients with cross-border and cash management services: and solutions for their companies, working in conjunction with Global Banking & Markets.
other transaction services, including trade services, factoring and banknotes.
Private Wealth Solutions: These comprise inheritance planning, trustee and other fiduciary Global Asset Management services designed to protect wealth and preserve it for future generations through structures tailored to HSBCs operations in asset management consist of meet the individual needs of each family.
Areas of products and services for institutional investors, expertise include trusts, foundation and company intermediaries and individual investors and their administration, charitable trusts and foundations, advisers.
insurance, family office advisory and philanthropy.
Principal Investments Other information This includes private equity, which comprises Funds under management HSBCs captive private equity funds, strategic relationships with third-party private equity 2009 2008 US$bn US$bn managers and other investments.
Funds under management At 1 January............................... 735 844 Private Banking Net new money.......................... 36 1 Value change............................. 76 159 HSBCs presence in all the major wealth-creating Exchange and other.................... 10 51 regions has enabled it to build one of the worlds At 31 December......................... 857 735 leading private banking groups, providing private banking and trustee services to high net worth individuals and their families from over 90 locations At 31 December in 42 countries and territories, with client assets of 2009 2008 US$367 billion at 31 December 2009.
US$bn US$bn Funds under management by HSBC Private Bank is the principal marketing business name of the HSBC Groups international private Global Asset Management......... 423 370 Private Banking......................... 251 219 banking business.
Utilising the most suitable Affiliates.................................... 3 2 products from the marketplace, HSBC Private Bank Other.......................................... 180 144 works with its clients to offer both traditional and 857 735 innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while optimising returns.
Products and services Funds under management at 31 December 2009 offered include: were US$857 billion, an increase of 17 per cent Private Banking Services: These comprise when compared with 31 December 2008.
Both multi-currency deposit accounts and fiduciary Global Asset Management and Private Banking fund deposits, credit and specialist lending, treasury holdings increased primarily as a result of the 147
