holding an increasing proportion of funds in liquid and the cost of funds.
Overall, spreads narrowed on current accounts rather than in savings and deposit an underlying basis.
accounts as they positioned for rising interest rates or Average interest-earning assets increased to prospective investment opportunities.
US$1,467 billion, led by growth in average loans and advances to customers.
This was mainly due to Competition for deposits and exceptionally an increase in average term lending balances in low interest rates squeezed deposit margins.
The net interest spread rose slightly.
As a result An increase in average interest-bearing of continuing deposit inflows, the Group sourced an liabilities was driven by growth in average customer increasing proportion of its funding from customer accounts, notably in Europe.
HSBC attracted accounts, and consequently reduced its reliance on substantial deposits from customers who valued relatively more expensive debt securities.
The HSBCs perceived strength at a time of global benefit of this was largely offset, however, by a financial market turmoil and customers also decline in customer lending, particularly higher expressed a preference for security and liquidity yielding personal lending, which reduced the following declines in equity markets.
Interest rates were cut aggressively in many 2008 compared with 2007 countries during 2008, as central banks reduced their reference rates as part of stimulus programmes Reported net interest income of US$42.6 billion rose introduced in response to deteriorating economic by 13 per cent compared with 2007, 13 per cent on conditions.
This contributed to a decline in asset an underlying basis.
The cost of funds also fell, but this was less Growth in net interest income was driven by significant than the decline in yields as spreads significantly higher revenues in Balance Sheet narrowed overall on an underlying basis.
Management, in part reflecting favourable In North America, net interest income was also positioning to take advantage of falling interest rates.
adversely affected by rises in loan modifications Lending and deposit balances also grew strongly, designed to reduce the payment burden on the while progressive reductions in central bank Groups customers, and impaired loans.
