number of funds incorporated outside the US whose Data security assets were invested with Madoff Securities and HSBC Private Bank Suisse is currently continuing have been named as defendants in suits in the US, to investigate a theft of client data which was widely Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions.
HSBC reported in December 2009 as having been supplied considers that it has good defences to these claims to the French authorities.
The theft appears to have and will continue to defend them vigorously.
HSBC taken place during a period preceding March 2007. is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that The bank is working closely with the Swiss might arise as a result of such claims.
authorities and its regulator to establish the extent of Full details are provided in Note 42 on the data involved in the theft in order to protect the Financial Statements.
interests and rights of its clients and of the Group and to further enhance its security policies and data protection practices.
Footnotes to the Operating and Financial Review Key performance indicators page 18 1 The percentage increase in net operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk charges since the previous year.
2 As a percentage of net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
3 Other income comprises net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions less net interest income and net fee income.
4 Total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk charges.
5 Net operating income divided by average risk-weighted assets.
6 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average invested capital.
7 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by the average total shareholders equity.
8 The percentage increase in dividends per share since the previous year, based on the dividends paid in respect of the year to which the dividend relates.
9 Basic earnings per ordinary share is defined in Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit loss before tax pages 21 to 22 10 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries and or movements in fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread together referred to as adjustments in the tables for HSBC, the Other customer group and certain geographical regions.
Comparatives for 2007 include gains arising on the dilution of interests in associates, where relevant.
The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year.
11 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
13 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable.
14 Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued.
15 Other income in this context comprises net trading income, net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, gains arising from dilution of interests in associates, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
16 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
Financial summary pages 23 to 60 18 The change in fair value related to movements in the Groups credit spread on long-term debt resulted in an expense of US$6.5 billion in 2009 2008: income of US$6.6 billion: 2007: income of US$3.1 billion.
19 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in trading income.
In HSBCs customer group results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with Global Banking and Markets net trading income as an interest expense.
20 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
21 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
22 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
23 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$1,309 million 2008: US$5,547 million: 2007: US$5,433 million and is excluded from the reported Net trading income line and included in Net interest income.
However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in HSBCs customer group and global business reporting.
24 Net trading income includes an expense of US$444 million 2008: income of US$529 million: 2007: income of US$34 million, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
25 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with HSBCs long-term debt issued.
26 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life 149 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Footnotes Impact of Market Turmoil Background and disclosure policy business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
27 The Middle East is disclosed as a separate geographical region with effect from 1 January 2009.
Previously, it formed part of Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Comparative data have been restated accordingly.
28 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital.
29 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008 : deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings, and: deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
30 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008.
31 Currency translation is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end.
32 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
33 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
34 Brazilian operations comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Servios e Participaes Limitada.
35 This table analyses interest-bearing bank deposits only.
See page 58 for an analysis of all bank deposits.
36 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt.
37 This table analyses interest-bearing customer accounts only.
See page 59 for an analysis of all customer accounts.
38 For the purpose of calculating the ratios, earnings consist of income from continuing operations before taxation and minority interests, plus fixed charges, and after deduction of the unremitted pre-tax income of associated undertakings.
Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits, as appropriate, dividends on preference shares and other equity instruments, as applicable, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor.
39 Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by average interest earning assets.
40 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups gain on own debt is included in Global Banking and Markets, and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
At 31 December 2009, there were no gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates 2008: nil and 2007: US$1.1 billion and fair value gains on HSBCs own debt designated at fair value were US$6.2 billion 2008: US$6.7 billion income: 2007: US$2.8 billion expense.
41 Assets by geographical region and customer group include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HSBC items.
42 In the analyses of customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
43 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
44 In 2009, Global Markets included a US$444 million loss on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2008: US$529 million: 2007: US$34 million.
45 Total income earned on securities services products in the Group amounted to US$1.4 billion 2008: US$2.2 billion: 2007: US$2.0 billion, of which US$1.4 billion was in Global Banking and Markets 2008: US$2.1 billion: 2007: US$1.9 billion and US$19 million was in Commercial Banking 2008: US$45 million: 2007: US$33 million.
46 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$3.8 billion 2008: US$5.2 billion: 2007: US$5.2 billion, of which US$2.8 billion was in Commercial Banking 2008: US$3.5 billion: 2007: US$3.5 billion and US$1.1 billion was in Global Banking and Markets 2008: US$1.7 billion: 2007: US$1.6 billion.
47 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$1.8 billion 2008: US$1.8 billion: 2007: US$1.4 billion, of which US$1.3 billion was in Commercial Banking relating to trade and supply chain 2008: US$1.3 billion: 2007: US$1.0 billion and US$507 million was in Global Banking and Markets of which US$382 million related to trade and supply chain 2008: US$355 million: 2007: US$270 million and US$125 million related to banknotes and other 2008: US$126 million: 2007: US$102 million 48 Other in Global Banking and Markets includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products.
49 Trading assets and financial investments held in Europe, and by Global Banking and Markets in North America, include financial assets which may be repledged or resold by counterparties.
50 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from customer groups, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within Global Banking and Markets.
HSBCs Balance Sheet Management business, reported within Global Banking and Markets, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report Global Banking and Markets Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the intersegment column.
51 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank.
52 US includes the impairment of goodwill in respect of Personal Financial Services North America as described in Note 22 on the Financial Statements.
