HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management Credit exposure Maximum exposure Collateral In the event of bankruptcy or analogous Credit exposure proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the Maximum exposure to credit risk periods stated above.
Collections procedures may Audited continue after write-off.
HSBCs exposure to credit risk covers a broad range Following the earlier decision to cease of asset classes, including derivatives, trading assets, underwriting through the Groups US consumer loans and advances to customers, loans and advances mortgage lending business and, given the reduced to banks and financial investments.
Credit exposure ability of customers to refinance their facilities in 2009 remained diversified across these asset which changed their historical behaviour patterns, classes, though the balance of the Groups credit HSBC Finance shortened the write-off period from exposure changed in 2009 due to the run-off of 240 days or later to 180 days contractually past due.
consumer finance assets in the US and greater The effect of this change was an acceleration of deployment of deposit inflows into debt securities.
In write-offs which reduced gross loans and advances addition, a significant decline in volatility in by US$3.3 billion, with a corresponding reduction in financial markets led to lower derivative assets and a impairment allowances and impaired loans.
There reduced exposure to loss in the event of default on has been no significant impact on net loans and derivative contracts.
The lower volatility, steepening advances or loan impairment charges.
The effect on yield curves and narrowing credit spreads resulted in the current period has been quantified where relevant a fall in the fair value of outstanding derivative to the appropriate disclosure contracts.
The level of offsetting derivative balances moved in line with the decline in balances of Cross-border exposures maximum exposure.
Management assesses the vulnerability of countries There was a deterioration in 2009 in the credit to foreign currency payment restrictions when quality of loans and advances to the commercial real considering impairment allowances on cross-border estate sector, notably in parts of Europe, the Middle exposures.
This assessment includes an analysis of East and North America.
the economic and political factors existing at the Exposure to personal lending secured on time.
Economic factors include the level of external residential property remained significant.
HSBC indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to suffered from continuing weakness in credit external sources of funds to meet the debtor conditions in the US mortgage market.
However, in countrys financing requirements.
Political factors the UK, despite lower activity in the housing market taken into account include the stability of the country as a whole, the credit quality of HSBCs mortgage and its government, threats to security, and the business remained good throughout 2009 and was quality and independence of the legal system.
Exposure to the Hong Kong residential Impairment allowances are assessed in respect mortgage market also remained well-secured.
For of all qualifying exposures within these countries further commentary on personal lending, see Areas unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: of Special Interest Personal Lending on page 215. performing, trade-related and of less than one Loss experience continued to be concentrated in years maturity: the personal lending portfolios, primarily in the US with 75 per cent of loan impairment charges and mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other credit risk provisions arising in Personal other than in exceptional cases, held outside the Financial Services in 2009 compared with 85 per country concerned: cent in 2008.
In 2009, 12 per cent of the Groups in the form of securities held for trading loan impairment charges and other credit risk purposes for which a liquid and active market provisions arose in Commercial Banking, compared exists, and which are measured at fair value with 9 per cent in 2008.
Loan impairment charges in daily: Global Banking and Markets were 6 per cent of total, loan impairment charges and other credit risk performing facilities with a principal excluding provisions compared with 3 per cent in 2008. security of US$1 million or below: or The following table presents the maximum performing facilities with maturity dates shorter exposure to credit risk from balance sheet and offthan three months.
balance sheet financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless such credit enhancements meet offsetting requirements.
