Present value of in-force long-term Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic insurance business assumptions Audited Audited PVIF at 31 December The HSBC life insurance business is accounted for 2009 2008 using the embedded value approach which, inter US$m US$m alia, provides a comprehensive framework for the 100 basis point shift in evaluation of insurance and related risks.
The present risk-free rate.............. 212 179 value of the in-force long-term PVIF asset at 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate.............. 145 100 31 December 2009 was US$2.8 billion 2008: 100 basis point shift in US$2.0 billion.
The present value of the risk discount rate....... 140 109 shareholders interest in the profits expected to 100 basis point shift in emerge from the book of in-force policies at risk discount rate....... 162 122 31 December can be stress-tested to assess the ability of the life business book to withstand adverse Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, developments.
A key feature of the life insurance the relationships may be non-linear and the results of business is the importance of managing the assets, the stress-testing disclosed above should not be liabilities and risks in a coordinated fashion rather extrapolated to higher levels of stress.
This reflects the greater the various scenarios, all assumptions are held stable interdependence of these three elements for life except when testing the effect of the shift in the riskinsurance than is generally the case for non-life free rate, when consequential changes to investment insurance.
returns, risk discount rates and bonus rates are also incorporated.
The sensitivities shown are before The following table shows the effect on the actions that could be taken by management to PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main mitigate effects and before consequential changes in economic assumptions, namely the risk-free and risk policyholder behaviour.
discount rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Non-economic assumptions over which the benefit is being paid to the Audited policyholder is shortened.
However, when an annuity contract includes life cover, the positive The policyholder liabilities and PVIF are determined effect on profit of the increase in mortality may be by reference to non-economic assumptions which offset by the benefits payable under the life include, for non-life manufacturers, claims costs and insurance.
The largest exposures to mortality and expense rates and, for life manufacturers, mortality morbidity risk exist in France, Hong Kong, the UK and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
table below shows the sensitivity of profit for the year to, and total equity at, 31 December 2009 to Sensitivity to lapse rates is dependent on the reasonably possible changes in these non-economic type of contracts being written.
For insurance assumptions at that date across all insurance contracts, the cost of claims is funded by premiums manufacturing subsidiaries, with comparatives for received and income earned on the investment 2008. portfolio supporting the liabilities.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase in lapse rates typically The cost of claims is a risk associated with nonhas a negative effect on profit due to the loss of life insurance business.
An increase in claims costs future premium income on the lapsed policies.
For a would have a negative effect on profit.
The main portfolio of annuity contracts, an increase in lapse exposures to this scenario are in the UK, Hong rates has a positive effect on profit as the obligation Kong, Latin America and Bermuda.
to pay future benefits on the lapsed contracts is Mortality and morbidity risk is typically extinguished.
France, Hong Kong, the UK and the associated with life insurance contracts.
The effect of US are the sites which are most sensitive to a change an increase in mortality or morbidity on profit in lapse rates.
depends on the type of business being written.
For a Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in portfolio of term assurance contracts, an increase in expense rates.
To the extent that increased expenses mortality usually has a negative effect on profit as cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in the number of claims increases.
For a portfolio of expense rates will have a negative impact on profits.
annuity contracts, an increase in mortality rates typically has a positive effect on profit as the period 284
