reduction in liabilities to policyholders on unitgross liability valuations in that year, along with a linked and, to a certain extent, participating policies.
reduction in the corresponding reinsurers share.
The decline arising from market value A significant increase in the reinsurers share movements was partially offset by an increase in of claims incurred and movement in liabilities to claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders was primarily driven by the above policyholders driven by new business growth, most regulatory change plus an increase in a reserve significantly in France, the UK and Hong Kong.
In provision on a unit-linked product in Hong Kong, addition, 2007 was affected by the implementation which was fully reinsured.
In addition, a significant of an FSA regulatory change, which led to lower one-off reinsurance transaction was undertaken in France during 2008.
As a consequence, Reported loan impairment charges and other credit loan impairment charges rose despite an underlying risk provisions were US$26.5 billion in 2009, an 9 per cent decline in gross loans and advances to increase of 6 per cent over 2008, 9 per cent on an customers which was driven mainly by the run-off underlying basis.
Within this, collectively assessed of the US consumer finance portfolios.
allowances declined while individually assessed impairment allowances continued to increase.
In the US Personal Financial Services business, loan impairment charges declined by 11 per cent to HSBCs aggregate outstanding customer loan US$14.2 billion, as additional delinquencies due to impairment allowances at 31 December 2009 of the continued deterioration in the US economy were US$25.5 billion represented 3 per cent of gross more than offset by the effect of lower balances in customer advances net of reverse repos and the run-off portfolios in HSBC Finance.
settlement accounts, compared with 2.6 per cent at the end of 2008.
In HSBC Finance, loan impairment charges decreased by 12 per cent.
The reduction arose in Loan impairment charges declined in certain most portfolios, but mainly in Mortgage Services as businesses, notably Personal Financial Services in the portfolio continued to run off.
In Consumer North America and Commercial Banking in Hong Lending, loan impairment charges increased, Kong, but this was more than offset by increases particularly in the unsecured personal lending elsewhere, primarily on individually significant portfolio, due to a deterioration in the 2006 and 2007 loans within Global Banking and Markets and more vintages and, to a lesser extent, first lien real estate broadly on Commercial Banking exposures outside secured loans, which was partly offset by lower loan Hong Kong as the global economic downturn 35 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Loan impairment charges impairment charges in the real estate secured predominantly in real estate and construction, portfolio.
Loan impairment charges in the Card which particularly affected the UAE.
Commercial and Retail Services portfolio decreased despite Banking recorded a number of specific loan the state of the US economy and higher levels of impairment charges and a significant increase unemployment and personal bankruptcy.
The main in collective loan impairment charges.
Lower reason was the decline in card balances following employment in the region, largely driven by the actions taken to manage risk beginning in the fourth decline in construction activity, led to a rise in loan quarter of 2007 and continuing through 2009, and impairment charges in Personal Financial Services, stable credit conditions.
particularly in the credit card and personal lending portfolios.
In HSBC Bank USA, increased loan impairment charges in the personal lending portfolios were due In Latin America, portfolios were affected by to additional delinquencies which resulted in the weaker economic environment for much of increased write-offs in the prime first lien mortgage the year.
In Personal Financial Services, loan loan portfolios as house prices continued to impairment charges rose by 12 per cent to deteriorate in certain markets.
US$2.0 billion, with increased delinquencies in credit cards, mortgages, vehicle finance and payroll Loan impairment charges and other credit risk loans due to higher unemployment.
In the Brazilian provisions increased significantly in Global Banking Commercial Banking portfolios, higher and Markets.
Loan impairment charges increased, delinquencies were experienced primarily in the reflecting the impairment of a small number of business banking and mid-market segments.
In exposures in the financial and property sectors in Mexico, action taken in 2008 to curtail originations Europe and the Middle East.
Further impairments and increase collection resources held loan were also recognised in respect of certain assetimpairment charges broadly unchanged backed securities held in the available-for-sale notwithstanding the deterioration in the economy portfolio, reflecting mark-to-market losses which and the impact of the H1N1 virus.
HSBC judged to be significantly in excess of the likely ultimate cash losses.
In India, as in Mexico, curtailment of origination activity in unsecured personal lending Loan impairment charges declined in slowed the increase in loan impairment charges in Personal Financial Services in the US but the unsecured credit card and personal lending rose in Commercial Banking outside Hong portfolios in Personal Financial Services.
In Kong and in Global Banking and Markets.
Commercial Banking, a higher number of corporate failures including a number of fraud-related losses, In the UK, loan impairment charges rose in both led to increased loan impairment charges.
the Commercial Banking and Personal Financial Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Services portfolios.
However, despite the contraction provisions in Hong Kong decreased by 35 per cent to in the economy, charges remained a low proportion US$500 million as the economic environment of the portfolio.
In Commercial Banking, loan improved in 2009, credit conditions recovered and impairment charges largely reflected economic international trade volumes improved.
weakness in a broad range of sectors.
In Private Banking, loan impairment charges In UK Personal Financial Services, loan increased from a very low level, largely attributable impairment charges also increased as unemployment to a specific charge relating to a single client rose.
This was seen primarily in the credit card and relationship in the US.
In the residential mortgage portfolios, delinquency rates decreased 2008 compared with 2007 as HSBC continued to benefit from very limited exposure to buy-to-let and self-certified mortgages.
Reported loan impairment charges and other credit HSBCs mortgage exposure continued to be well risk provisions were US$24.9 billion in 2008, an secured, with an average loan-to-value ratio for new increase of 45 per cent over 2007, 46 per cent on an UK business in HSBC Banks mortgage portfolio, underlying basis.
excluding First Direct, of under 55 per cent in 2009, A deterioration in credit quality was compared with 59 per cent in 2008. experienced across all customer groups and In the Middle East, loan impairment charges geographical regions as the global economy slowed.
increased markedly from US$280 million to The rise in Group loan impairment charges and other US$1.3 billion as the region experienced a credit risk provisions also reflected an underlying significant economic contraction in activity, 36 8 per cent increase in lending to customers unsecured portfolios deteriorated slightly in 2008, excluding the financial sector and settlement particularly in the second half of the year, due to the accounts.
Loan impairment charges in the commercial portfolio rose in 2008 as the Loan impairment charges rose significantly in weakening property market led to higher impairment the US by 38 per cent to US$16.3 billion, due to charges against construction companies and credit quality deterioration across all US portfolios businesses dependent upon the real estate sector, in Personal Financial Services.
particularly in the final quarter of the year.
In the US consumer lending portfolio, loan Impairment charges against banks rose due to some impairment charges rose as delinquency rates exposure to the Icelandic banks in 2008.
In addition, deteriorated sharply and the economy declined rising levels of personal indebtedness resulted in markedly in the second half of 2008, most notably in lower releases and recoveries of charges than in the first lien portfolio.
This was particularly apparent 2007. in the geographical regions most affected by house Higher loan impairment and other credit risk price depreciation and rising unemployment rates.
In provisions within Global Banking and Markets in mortgage services, loan impairment charges rose as Europe reflected increased charges against certain 2005 and 2006 vintages matured and moved into the corporate accounts and impairment recorded on later stages of delinquency.
This was partly offset by available-for-sale debt securities.
the benefit of lower balances as run-off continued, albeit at a slowing pace as house price depreciation In Mexico, loan impairment charges rose by restricted refinancing options for customers.
In US$513 million or 69 per cent, primarily in the HSBC USA, loan impairment charges rose as credit credit card portfolio.
This was due to a combination quality worsened across the real estate secured of higher lending volumes from organic expansion portfolio and private label cards.
Delinquencies rose and higher delinquency rates which were driven by in the prime first lien residential mortgage portfolio, a deterioration in credit quality as the portfolio Home Equity Line of Credit and Home Equity Loan continued to season and move into the later stages of second lien portfolios.
The higher delinquency rate delinquency.
Management took action to enhance for prime first lien mortgages was in part due to collection activity and improve the quality of new lower balances following US$7.0 billion of portfolio business.
Impairment charges in the commercial sales during the year.
portfolio also rose due to credit quality deterioration among small and medium-sized enterprises as the Loan impairment charges in the US card and economy weakened.
retail services portfolios rose, again driven by increasing unemployment, portfolio seasoning, In Hong Kong, the rise in loan impairment higher levels of personal bankruptcy filings and charges was driven by weakness in parts of the continued weakness in the US economy which was export sector within the commercial portfolio in the most apparent in regions with the most significant second half of 2008.
In Global Banking and Markets, declines in house prices and rising unemployment.
credit impairment charges within Balance Sheet Management principally reflected losses on debt Loan impairment charges in Commercial securities and paper issued by financial institutions Banking in North America more than doubled from previously rated at investment grade which failed in a low base in 2007, due to deterioration across the the year.
commercial real estate, middle market and corporate banking portfolios in the US and, to a lesser extent, In Rest of Asia-Pacific, the growth in loan higher loan impairment charges against firms in the impairment charges reflected a combination of the manufacturing, export and commercial real estate expansion of consumer lending and credit quality sectors in Canada.
deterioration in India and the Middle East.
In addition, higher impairment charges in Commercial In the UK, a modest decline in loan impairment Banking were driven by a deterioration in credit charges in Personal Financial Services reflected the quality in the second half of the year.
non-recurrence of a methodology change at HFC in 2007 which resulted in higher impairment charges.
For the Group as a whole, the aggregate Credit quality in the Personal Financial Services outstanding customer loan impairment allowances portfolio remained broadly stable, reflecting early at 31 December 2008 of US$23.9 billion represented risk mitigation through the tightening of lending 2.6 per cent of gross customer advances net of controls and the sale of non-core credit card reverse repos and settlement accounts, compared portfolios during the year.
Credit quality in the with 2 per cent at 31 December 2007.
