HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive directors remuneration Performance shares measures and their percentage weighting referred to Economic profit award above.
Economic profit EP is calculated as the average annual difference between return on invested capital TSR award and the Groups benchmark cost of capital and is TSR is measured against a comparator group expressed as a percentage.
EP is a key measure of comprising the largest global banks in the world as shareholder value creation as it rewards management well as other banks against which HSBC competes progressively to the extent that the return on the for business at a regional and or local level.
These capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders is in companies are: excess of a threshold return, which itself exceeds the Groups benchmark cost of capital.
Banco Bradesco Fortis Banco Itau ICBC For the awards made in 2008 the benchmark Banco Santander JP Morgan Chase cost of capital was 10 per cent.
Return on invested Bank of America Lloyds Banking Group capital is based on the profit attributable to Bank of China National Australia Bank Barclays Royal Bank of Canada shareholders as defined on page 19.
The extent to BBVA Royal Bank of Scotland which the EP award will vest will be determined as BNP Paribas Socit Gnrale follows: Citigroup Standard Chartered Credit Suisse Group UBS Average annual EP over Proportion of EP Award DBS Group UniCredito Italiano 1 three years vesting Deutsche Bank Wells Fargo 8 per cent or above 100% 3 per cent nil During 2008, HBOS and Wachovia merged with other banks in the comparator group and in 2009 the 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 0 per cent and 100 per cent where HSBCs performance falls between these remainder of the banking activities of Fortis were incremental steps.
acquired by BNP Paribas, an existing member of the comparator group.
For awards made in 2008, Earnings per share award performance from the point of acquisition will track that of the acquirer.
This approach retains the free Growth in EPS is measured on a point to point basis, float market capitalisation FFMC weighting of by comparing EPS in the third financial year of the the combined entities.
The Committee determined performance period with EPS in the financial year that the comparator group remains large enough to preceding that in which the award is made.
This be statistically valid and as such it was not necessary approach is aimed at simplifying the use of EPS as a to introduce any replacement banks.
performance measure and takes into account feedback received during consultation with To reflect the fact that the range of market institutional shareholders in 2007 2008. capitalisations within the comparator group is very EPS growth in Year 3 over Proportion of EPS wide, a FFMC weighted method is used to calculate 1 the base EPS award vesting TSR performance.
Under this approach, HSBCs 28 per cent or above 100% out-performance of the comparator group will be 16 per cent 20% calculated by dividing the total FFMC of all of the 16 per cent nil companies that HSBC has outperformed in terms of TSR by the total FFMC of all of the companies in 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 20% and 100% where HSBCs performance falls between these incremental the comparator group.
The extent to which the TSR award will vest will be determined as follows: If events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that a performance condition If HSBCs TSR outperforms Proportion of TSR Award 1 has become unfair or impractical in either direction, companies comprising vesting the right is reserved to the Remuneration Committee, 75 per cent of the total FFMC 100% if it considers it appropriate, to amend, relax or 50 per cent of the total FFMC 20% 50 per cent of the total FFMC nil waive the condition.
1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 20 per cent and Awards will vest in full and immediately in 100 per cent where HSBCs performance falls between these cases of death.
In the event of redundancy, incremental steps.
retirement on grounds of injury or ill health and where a participant ceases to be employed by HSBC due to a company ceasing to be part of HSBC, 340
