with 2007, and 4 per cent on an underlying basis.
HSBCs share of profits from Ping An Insurance This increase was driven by higher contributions Group Company of China, Limited Ping An from Bank of Communications, Industrial Bank, and Insurance increased by 62 per cent as a result of the the Saudi British Bank, partly offset by lower profits non-recurrence of Ping An Insurances impairment of from Ping An Insurance.
its investment in Fortis SA NV and Fortis N. V. HSBCs share of profits from Bank of Fortis in 2008 and an increase in new business Communications rose by 52 per cent to sales and investment returns which were boosted by a US$741 million, primarily driven by increased recovery in equity markets during 2009.
This was margins, as yields rose following higher base rates in partly offset by the non-recurrence of favourable mainland China through most of 2008, and balance changes to investment assumptions in the first half of sheet growth.
Growth in revenues from the asset 2008. custody business, financial advisory services and bank card transactions also drove higher profits.
6 per cent underlying increase in share of profit in associates and joint ventures.
HSBCs share of profits from Ping An Insurance decreased by 43 per cent, primarily due to the HSBCs share of profits from the Bank of impairment of its investment in Fortis, following Communications Co. Limited Bank of significant declines in its market value.
Communications remained in line with 2008 as higher fee and trading income and a lower tax charge Profits from the Saudi British Bank were higher were broadly offset by a decline in net interest by 16 per cent due to strong balance sheet growth, income and higher loan impairment charges.
particularly in the lending portfolio, augmented by higher fees from cards, account services and trade.
Profits from the Saudi British Bank were lower than in 2008 as an increase in loan impairment Profits from Industrial Bank grew by 72 per cent, charges was only partly offset by increased operating driven by increased investment income and balance income.
The share of profits from joint ventures fell due The share of profits from joint ventures rose to a decline in the profitability of HSBC Saudi Arabia due to growth in HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd and the Ltd as a result of a slowdown in initial public recognition of profits in HSBC Merchant Services offerings IPOs and a decline in assets under UK Ltd, the new merchant acquiring venture with management.
This was partly offset by an increase in Global Payments Inc. profits from HSBC Merchant Services UK Ltd in the An adjustment to the embedded value of HSBC first half of 2009 compared with the second half of Assurances in 2007 did not recur.
HSBC Merchant Services UK Ltd was created in June 2008 and sold in June 2009.
