HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Products and services Other information Funds under management network of offices and direct access to numerous finance and advisory support.
These requirements local clearing systems enhances its customers ability are serviced by the Group on a client-specific basis.
to manage their cash efficiently on a global basis.
Delivery channels: HSBC deploys a full range Deposits are attracted through current accounts and of delivery channels, including specific online and savings products, in local and foreign currencies.
direct banking offerings such as HSBCnet and International trade: HSBC finances and Business Internet Banking.
facilitates significant volumes of international trade, under both open account terms and traditional trade Global Banking and Markets finance instruments.
HSBC also provides Global Banking and Markets provides tailored international factoring, commodity and insured financial solutions to major government, corporate export finance, and forfaiting services.
The Group and institutional clients worldwide.
Managed as a utilises its extensive international network to build global business, Global Banking and Markets customer relationships at both ends of trade flows, operates a long-term relationship management and maximises efficiency through expertise in approach to build a full understanding of clients documentary checking and processing, and highly financial requirements.
Sectoral client service teams automated systems.
comprising relationship managers and product Treasury and capital markets: Commercial specialists develop financial solutions to meet Banking customers are volume users of the Groups individual client needs.
With dedicated offices in foreign exchange, derivatives and structured product over 62 countries and access to HSBCs worldwide capabilities, including sophisticated currency and presence and capabilities, this business serves interest rate options.
subsidiaries and offices of its clients on a global basis.
Commercial cards: HSBC offers commercial card issuing and acquiring services.
Commercial Global Banking and Markets is managed as four card issuing helps customers enhance cash principal business lines: Global Markets, Global management, improve cost control and streamline Banking, Principal Investments and Global Asset purchasing processes.
This structure allows HSBC to focus services enable merchants to accept credit and on relationships and sectors that best fit the Groups debit card payments either in person or when the footprint and facilitates seamless delivery of HSBCs cardholder is not present e. g. over the internet or products and services to clients.
Global Markets Insurance: Through its bancassurance model, HSBC offers a full range of commercial insurance HSBCs operations in Global Markets consist of products and services to enable customers and treasury and capital markets services for company owners to trade and grow safely.
Products supranationals, central banks, corporations, include key person and life insurance, employee institutional and private investors, financial benefits and a variety of commercial risks such as institutions and other market participants.
Products property, liability, cargo and trade credit insurance.
include: These products are provided by HSBC as a foreign exchange: manufacturer or an intermediary utilising preferred strategic partners.
Upon the completion of the sale of currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and HSBC Insurance Brokers in 2010 a new partnership other derivatives: will be launched with Marsh, the global insurance government and non-government fixed income broker, to provide intermediary services to HSBCs and money market instruments: corporate customers.
precious metals and exchange traded futures: Wealth management services: These include advice and products related to savings and equity services, including research, sales and investments provided to Commercial Banking trading for institutional, corporate and private customers and their employees through HSBCs clients and asset management services: worldwide network, with clients being referred to distribution of capital markets instruments, Premier and Private Banking where appropriate.
including debt, equity and structured products, Investment banking: A small number of utilising HSBCs global network: and Commercial Banking customers need corporate securities services, where HSBC is one of the worlds leading custodians providing custody 146
