Movement from 31 December 2008 to creation by central banks, particularly in Europe 31 December 2009 and North America.
Total assets amounted to US$2.4 trillion, 6 per cent Trading assets fell by 6 per cent, primarily lower than at 31 December 2008.
After excluding due to a decrease in the level of reverse repos, the effect of currency movements, underlying total particularly in Europe and North America, and a assets declined by 11 per cent, driven by a reduction reduction in holdings of short-dated government in the fair value of derivative assets as market securities in Hong Kong.
There was also a reduction conditions stabilised.
in the collateral required by counterparties to support derivative liabilities as these balances declined.
The Groups reported tier 1 ratio increased from Equity shares held-for-trading grew as activity 8.3 per cent to 10.8 per cent, mainly due to additional recovered against a low in the fourth quarter of 2008. equity of US$17.8 billion raised through the rights issue in April 2009, the contribution from profits for A reduction in the fair values of derivative the year and a reduction in the underlying level of assets drove an 11 per cent decline in risk-weighted assets.
For more details of capital and underlying total assets.
risk weighted assets, see pages 285 to 293.
The following commentary is on an underlying basis.
Financial assets designated at fair value grew by 19 per cent due to an increase in UK government Assets debt securities in Balance Sheet Management, and an increase in the fair value of equity securities held Cash and balances at central banks increased by within the insurance business, particularly in Europe 12 per cent, consistent with the global liquidity and Hong Kong, as market values recovered.
42 Derivative assets declined by 52 per cent with was mainly due to an outflow of deposits in Europe reductions across all classes of asset, notably foreign as the economic situation improved and investor risk exchange, interest rate and credit derivatives.
There was also a fall in deposits volatility within the financial markets, steepening from customers whose accounts are managed net but yield curves in major currencies and narrowing reported gross under IFRSs, see Loans and credit spreads led to a fall in the fair value of advances to customers.
These factors were partly outstanding derivative contracts.
offset by an increase in deposits in Hong Kong due to an excess of liquidity in the market.
Loans and advances to banks increased by 12 per cent, mainly in Hong Kong and Rest of AsiaTrading liabilities were 3 per cent higher, driven Pacific, where surplus funds were placed on a by increases in hedged net short positions on equity short-term basis with financial institutions and securities in line with a rise in market activity, and in central banks as part of Balance Sheet Management government debt securities as a result of more active activities.
market making activities and an expectation of interest rate rises on certain trading desks.
Offsetting Loans and advances to customers fell by 9 per this was a reduction in repo contracts, and a decrease cent, driven by a reduction in balances in North in structured deposit accounts in Hong Kong as America due to the run-off of the consumer finance existing deals matured and customers expressed a businesses, the sale of selected portfolios, and a preference for vanilla cash instruments in the reduction in Treasury reverse repo balances and cash uncertain economic environment.
collateral as excess liquidity was placed in other investments.
These factors were compounded by Financial liabilities designated at fair value declines in balances in other regions, particularly grew by 4 per cent due to new HSBC debt issuances in the first half of the year, due to customer in Europe during the year.
deleveraging and lower credit origination in certain Derivative businesses are managed within segments as risk appetite reduced and customer market risk limits and, as a consequence, the demand declined.
In the UK, there was also a reduction in the value of derivative liabilities reduction in customer overdraft balances that are broadly matched that of derivative assets.
managed on a net basis but reported gross under IFRSs.
Mortgage balances increased strongly in the Debt securities in issue fell by 22 per cent, UK and Hong Kong as HSBC targeted growth in primarily in North America as the funding these markets, although this was largely offset by the requirements reduced in line with the run-off of run-off of balances in the US, as noted above.
Financial investments rose by 17 per cent, Liabilities under insurance contracts grew by mainly in Hong Kong driven by purchases of Hong 18 per cent due to gains recorded on unit-linked Kong government and other highly-rated securities products as a result of an improvement in investment in the year.
This increase was partly offset by a fall market values, and higher insurance sales in Hong in financial investments in Europe, as a result of debt Kong following the launch of several new products.
securities that matured and were not replaced.
Other liabilities were 4 per cent lower than at Other assets grew by 7 per cent compared with 31 December 2008.
Equity Liabilities Total shareholders equity increased by 31 per cent, Deposits by banks decreased by 10 per cent, largely mainly due to the US$17.8 billion of funds raised reflecting a decline in central bank and other through the rights issue in April 2009.
In addition, interbank deposits in Hong Kong, Rest of Asiathe negative balance on the available-for-sale reserve Pacific and North America.
also declined from US$20.6 billion at 31 December 2008 to US$10.0 billion at 31 December 2009, Customer account balances decreased by 2 per largely reflecting increases in the market value of cent, despite growth in the Personal Financial assets.
Services and Commercial Banking segments.
In 2009, the effect of acquisitions was not material.
