The 5 per cent increase in the notional contract amounts of HSBCs derivative assets in the year was primarily driven by increased trading volumes on interest rate contracts.
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries 2009 2008 Trading Trading Trading Trading assets liabilities assets liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange...................................................................... 2,250 362 1,772 1,324 Interest rate............................................................................... 731 1,910 Total fair values........................................................................ 2,981 362 3,682 1,324 Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices.
Derivatives enable users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks.
HSBC makes markets in derivatives for its customers and uses derivatives to manage its exposure to credit and market risks.
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
A description of how the fair value of derivatives is derived is set out on page 171.
Derivative assets and liabilities on different transactions are only set off if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis.
Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, for proprietary trading purposes, and to manage and hedge HSBCs own risks.
Derivatives except for derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39 are held for trading.
The held for trading classification includes two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those used for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting.
The 424 second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
These activities are described more fully below.
HSBCs derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives.
These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels, with matching deals being utilised to achieve this where necessary.
When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management procedures to assess and approve potential credit exposures that are used for traditional lending.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from short-term fluctuations in price or margin.
Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters.
Trading includes market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume: positioning means managing market risk positions in the expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices: arbitrage involves identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products.
As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness.
Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting.
These include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income, except for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, together with the gains and losses on the hedged items.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, the contractual interest is shown in interest expense together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty.
Trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Groups loan portfolios.
425 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 18 The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$1,237,055 million 2008: US$1,583,337 million consisted of protection bought of US$614,690 million 2008: US$777,556 million and protection sold of US$622,365 million 2008: US$805,781 million.
The difference between the notional amounts bought and sold is attributable to HSBC selling protection on large, diversified, predominantly investment grade portfolios including the most senior tranches and then offsetting risk on these positions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of the same portfolios.
In addition, HSBC uses securities to mitigate risks on certain derivative positions and credit derivative contracts to reduce counterparty exposures.
Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts of credit derivatives bought and sold this should not be interpreted as representing the open risk position.
The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described on pages 250 to 261.
Hedging instruments HSBC uses derivatives principally interest rate swaps for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and liability portfolios and structural positions.
This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of hedge transactions.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges in net investment of foreign operations.
These are described under the relevant headings below.
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedging purposes by product type At 31 December 2009 At 31 December 2008 Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value hedge hedge hedge hedge US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange...................................................................... 12,359 2,469 14,931 2,602 Interest rate............................................................................... 236,388 42,224 229,785 27,305 248,747 44,693 244,716 29,907 426 Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are recognised in the income statement.
If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income statement as a yield adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the cash flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income statement.
