HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive directors Funding TSR Pensions Share ownership Service contracts Other directorships Non-executive Directors three years would equate to a compound annual satisfied.
Awards will normally be forfeited if the growth rate of 8 per cent.
participant is dismissed for cause or resigns from HSBC.
In all circumstances the Committee retains Illustration of incremental EPS of 51 per cent over discretion to ensure fair and reasonable treatment.
Funding Percentage difference between: Total incremental The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share plans Year 1 EPS Year 2 EPS Year 3 EPS EPS for the comply with the Association of British Insurers and Base Year and Base Year and Base year performance EPS EPS EPS period guidelines.
To date, all vesting awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares under the 8% 17% 26% 51% HSBC Share Plan have been satisfied by the transfer If EPS in any of the Years 1, 2 or 3 is below the of existing shares.
To create additional core tier 1 base year, then the percentage difference between capital and retain funds within HSBC, the Board has that particular year and the base year is negative.
agreed that new shares may be issued to satisfy the vesting of awards of Restricted and Performance For this purpose, EPS means the profit Shares that cannot be satisfied from shares already attributable to the shareholders expressed in US held by employee benefit trusts commencing in dollars, excluding goodwill amortisation, divided by 2011. the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and held outside the Group during the year in Total shareholder return question.
In the event that the published EPS for the base year is restated during the performance period Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report to adjust for changes in accounting standards, that Regulations 2002, the graph below shows HSBCs restated EPS will be used for the purposes of the TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index, for EPS performance condition.
the five-year period ended 31 December 2009.
The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as this is a In addition, awards will not vest unless the recognised broad equity market index of which Remuneration Committee is satisfied that HSBC HSBC Holdings is a member.
Holdings financial performance has shown a HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Index sustained improvement in the period since the award 160% date.
In determining whether HSBC Holdings has achieved a sustained improvement in performance, 150% the Remuneration Committee will take account of all 140% relevant factors but in particular comparisons against 130% the comparator group in areas such as revenue 120% growth and mix, cost efficiency, credit performance, cash return on cash invested, dividend performance 110% and TSR.
100% If events occur which cause the Remuneration 90% Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Committee to consider that a performance condition HSBC TSR FTSE 100 has become unfair or impractical in either direction, the right is reserved to the Remuneration Committee, Source: IDC if it considers it appropriate, to amend, relax or waive the condition.
Pensions Awards will vest in full immediately in cases The normal retirement age for executive Directors of death.
In the event of redundancy, retirement on is 65 with the exception of V H C Cheng, for whom grounds of injury or ill health, early retirement no retirement age is specified in keeping with by agreement, normal retirement and where a local legislation.
The pension entitlements of the participant ceases to be employed by HSBC due to executive Directors for 2009 are set out on page 346. a company ceasing to be part of HSBC, awards will normally vest at the end of the vesting period on Share ownership guidelines a time-apportioned basis to the extent that the To ensure appropriate alignment with shareholders, performance conditions have been satisfied.
In the HSBC operates a formal share ownership policy, event of a change of control, awards will normally expressed as a number of shares, for executive vest immediately and on a time-apportioned basis to the extent that the performance conditions have been 342
