HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs Others Maximum exposures to SPEs allow for deleveraging, a managed liquidation of the where SPEs introduce cost efficiencies.
HSBC portfolio, or other mechanisms.
Following the consolidates these SPEs when the substance of the inclusion of such risk reduction mechanisms, HSBC relationship indicates that HSBC controls the SPE.
has, in certain circumstances, retained all or a HSBCs risks and rewards of ownership in these portion of the underlying exposure in the transaction.
SPEs are in respect of its on-balance sheet assets and When this retained exposure represents ABSs, it has liabilities.
been included in Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures on page 157.
HSBCs maximum exposures to SPEs Often, transactions are facilitated through SPEs The following tables show the total assets of the to enable the notes issued to the investors to be rated.
various types of SPEs, and the amount and types The SPEs are not consolidated by HSBC when the of funding provided by HSBC to these SPEs.
The investors bear substantially all the risks and rewards tables also show HSBCs maximum exposure to the of ownership through the notes.
SPEs and, within that exposure, the types of liquidity The total fair value of liabilities notes issued and credit enhancements provided by HSBC.
The and derivatives in structured credit transaction maximum exposures to SPEs represent HSBCs SPEs was US$20.6 billion at 31 December 2009 maximum possible risk exposure that could occur 2008: US$21.2 billion.
There were no SPEs that as a result of the Groups arrangements and were consolidated by HSBC included in these commitments to SPEs.
The maximum amounts are amounts 2008: US$0.3 billion.
contingent in nature, and may arise as a result of drawdowns under liquidity facilities, where these Other uses of SPEs have been provided, and any other funding commitments, or as a result of any loss protection HSBC participates in Public-Private Partnerships to provided by HSBC to the SPEs.
The conditions provide financial support for infrastructure projects under which such exposure might arise differ initiated by government authorities.
The funding depending on the nature of each SPE and HSBCs structure is commonly achieved through the use of involvement with it.
The aggregation of such SPEs.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs when it is maximum exposures across the different forms of exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of the SPEs results in a theoretical total maximum vehicles.
The elements of the maximum HSBCs ASF business specialises in leasing and exposure to an SPE are not necessarily additive and arranging finance for aircraft and other physical a detailed explanation of how maximum exposures assets, which it is customary to ring-fence through are determined is provided under each category of the use of SPEs, and in structured loans and deposits, SPE.
