Critical accounting policies HSBC uses two alternative methods to calculate Audited collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually Introduction significant: The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting when appropriate empirical information is policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology.
preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
This methodology employs statistical analysis The significant accounting policies used in the of historical data and experience of delinquency preparation of the consolidated financial statements and default to estimate the likelihood that loans are described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
will progress through the various stages of When preparing the financial statements, it is delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
the Directors responsibility under UK company law The estimated loss is the difference between the to select suitable accounting policies and to make present value of expected future cash flows, judgements and estimates that are reasonable and discounted at the original effective interest rate prudent.
of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio: and The accounting policies that are deemed critical to HSBCs results and financial position, in terms when the portfolio size is small or when of the materiality of the items to which the policy information is insufficient or not reliable is applied, and which involve a high degree of enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC judgement including the use of assumptions and adopts a basic formulaic approach based on estimation, are discussed below.
Both methodologies are subject to estimation Impairment of loans and advances uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to HSBCs accounting policy for losses arising from identify losses on an individual loan basis because the impairment of customer loans and advances is of the large number of individually insignificant described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
Loan impairment allowances represent In addition, the use of statistically assessed managements best estimate of losses incurred historical information is supplemented with in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
significant management judgement to assess whether Management is required to exercise judgement current economic and credit conditions are such that in making assumptions and estimations when the actual level of inherent losses is likely to be calculating loan impairment allowances on both greater or less than that suggested by historical individually and collectively assessed loans and experience.
In normal circumstances, historical advances.
Of the Groups total loans and advances experience provides the most objective and relevant to customers before impairment allowances of information from which to assess inherent loss US$922 billion 2008: US$957 billion, within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, US$14.8 billion or 2 per cent 2008: US$7.9 billion: historical loss experience provides less relevant 1 per cent were individually assessed for information about the inherent loss in a given impairment, and US$907 billion or 98 per cent portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, 2008: US$949 billion: 99 per cent were where there have been changes in economic, collectively assessed for impairment.
regulatory or behavioural conditions which result in the most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors The most significant judgemental area is the being not fully reflected in the statistical models.
In calculation of collective impairment allowances.
these circumstances, such risk factors are taken into HSBCs most significant geographical area of account when calculating the appropriate levels of exposure to collectively assessed loans and advances impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment is North America, which comprised US$219 billion allowances derived solely from historical loss or 24 per cent 2008: US$271 billion: 29 per cent experience.
of HSBCs total collectively assessed loans and advances.
Collective impairment allowances in This key area of judgement is subject to North America were US$13.0 billion, representing uncertainty and is highly sensitive to factors such as 68 per cent 2008: US$15.9 billion: 77 per cent of loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment the total collectively assessed loan impairment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, allowance.
loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the 61
