HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments Carried at fair value Not carried at fair value Assessing available-for-sale assets for whether any of their cash flows are unlikely to be impairment recovered as a result of events occurring on or before the balance sheet date.
HSBCs policy on impairment of available-for-sale assets is described on page 375.
The following is a In particular, for residential and commercial description of HSBCs application of that policy.
MBSs the estimated future cash flows are assessed by determining the future projected cash flows A systematic impairment review is carried out arising on the underlying collateral taking into periodically of all available-for-sale assets, and all consideration the delinquency status of underlying available indicators are considered to determine loans, the probability of delinquent loans progressing whether there is any objective evidence that an to default, the proportion of the advances impairment may have occurred, whether as the result subsequently recoverable and the prepayment of a single loss event or as the combined effect of profiles of the underlying assets.
externally available data and applies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in Debt securities respect of these factors.
HSBC uses a modelling When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for approach which incorporates historically observed objective evidence of impairment at the balance progression rates to default, to determine if the sheet date, HSBC considers all available evidence, decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the including observable data or information about underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in events specifically relating to the securities which contractual cash flows.
In such cases the security is may result in a shortfall in recovery of future cash considered to be impaired.
These events may include a significant In respect of CDOs, in order to determine financial difficulty of the issuer, a breach of contract whether impairment has occurred, the expected such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial future cash flows of the CDOs are compared with reorganisation, or the disappearance of an active the total of the underlying collateral on the nonmarket for the debt security because of financial defaulted assets and the recovery value of the difficulties relating to the issuer.
In the event of a shortfall, the These types of specific events and other factors CDO is considered to be impaired.
such as information about the issuers liquidity, When a security benefits from a contract business and financial risk exposures, levels of and provided by a monoline insurer that insures trends in default for similar financial assets, national payments of principal and interest, the expected and local economic trends and conditions, and the recovery on the contract is assessed in determining fair value of collateral and guarantees may be the total expected credit support available to the considered individually, or in combination, to ABS.
determine if there is objective evidence of impairment of a debt security.
Equity securities In addition, when assessing available-for-sale Objective evidence of impairment for availableABSs for objective evidence of impairment, HSBC for-sale equity securities may include specific considers the performance of underlying collateral information about the issuer as detailed above, but and the extent and depth of market price declines.
may also include information about significant Changes in credit ratings are considered but a changes in technology, markets, economics or the downgrade of a securitys credit rating is not, of law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity itself, evidence of impairment.
The primary securities may not be recovered.
indicators of potential impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements, and the A significant or prolonged decline in the fair disappearance of an active market for the securities.
value of the asset below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is At 31 December 2009, the population of significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated available-for-sale ABSs identified as being most against the original cost of the asset at initial at risk of impairment included residential MBSs recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the backed by sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages decline is evaluated against the period in which the originated in the US, commercial MBSs orginated in fair value of the asset has been below its original the US and Europe and CDOs with considerable cost at initial recognition.
The estimated future cash flows of these securities are assessed to determine 178
