HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Capital management and allocation Pillar 2 Pillar 3 Future developments Capital structure Market risk Pillar 3 Market risk is the risk that movements in market risk Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and factors, including foreign exchange, commodity aims to make firms more transparent by requiring prices, interest rates, credit spread and equity prices them to publish specific, prescribed details of their will reduce HSBCs income or the value of its risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II portfolios.
Market risk is measured, with FSA framework.
HSBC published its first full set of pillar permission, using Value at Risk VAR models, 3 disclosures for 31 December 2008, including or the standard rules prescribed by the FSA.
Pillar 3 disclosures are published as a separate document on HSBC uses both VAR and standard rules the Group Investor Relations website.
Its longer-term aim is to migrate more positions from standard rules to VAR.
Future developments Operational risk The regulation and supervision of financial institutions is currently undergoing a period of Basel II includes capital requirements for operational significant change in response to the global financial risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication.
Increased capital requirements for market risk The capital required under the basic indicator and securitisations have already been announced by approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, the Basel Committee and are due for implementation whereas under the standardised approach it is one in the EU in 2011.
The Basel Committee issued of three different percentages of gross revenues further proposals in a Consultative Document allocated to each of eight defined business lines.
Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector Both these approaches use an average of the last on 17 December 2009.
The Committees proposals three financial years revenues.
Finally, the advanced are part of global initiatives to strengthen the measurement approach uses banks own statistical financial regulatory system, and have been endorsed analysis and modelling of operational risk data to by the Financial Stability Board and the G20 leaders.
A comprehensive impact assessment will be carried HSBC has adopted the standardised approach out on the proposals in the first half of 2010, with the in determining its Group operational risk capital aim of developing a fully calibrated set of standards requirements.
The proposals will be phased in as financial conditions improve and the economic Pillar 2 recovery is assured, with the aim of implementation by the end of 2012.
Within this context, the Basel The second pillar of Basel II Supervisory Review Committee will also consider appropriate transition and Evaluation Process involves both firms and and grandfathering arrangements.
The consultation regulators taking a view on whether a firm should period for these proposals closes on 16 April 2010. hold additional capital against risks not covered in pillar 1.
Part of the pillar 2 process is the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process which is the firms self assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold.
The pillar 2 process culminates in the FSA providing firms with Individual Capital Guidance ICG.
The ICG is set as a capital resources requirement higher than that required under pillar 1.
Movement in tier 1 capital Movement in risk-weighted assets Audited Unaudited HSBC complied with the FSAs capital adequacy Total risk-weighted assets decreased by requirements throughout 2009 and 2008.
The rights US$14.8 billion, or 1.3 per cent.
Foreign currency issue increased tier 1 capital by US$17.8 billion.
translation effects are estimated to have increased Profits attributable to shareholders of the parent RWAs by US$40 billion, mainly as a result of the company of US$5.8 billion included losses of weakening of the US dollar, particularly against US$4.4 billion from own credit spread, net of tax, sterling and the Brazilian real, resulting in an which do not impact regulatory capital.
The estimated underlying decrease of US$55 billion in resulting contribution to tier 1 capital was therefore RWAs.
Of this underlying decrease, US$19 billion US$10.2 billion less net dividends of US$4.0 billion was due to credit risk RWAs, reflecting decreases in after taking account of shares issued in lieu of Europe and North America being offset by increases dividends.
The weakening US dollar caused foreign in Asia.
Market risk and counterparty credit risk currency translation differences to increase tier 1 RWAs decreased by US$41 billion, primarily due capital by US$4.8 billion.
to reduced market volatility and active exposure management.
Operational risk RWAs increased by US$4.8 billion because the three-year averaging of gross revenues used in the calculation now includes revenues for 2009 in place of 2006.
