With the exception of the award for V H C Cheng, 33 per cent of the executive Directors awards will vest on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award.
The award for V H C Cheng has a vesting date three years from the date of the award.
2 M F Geoghegan, D J Flint and S T Gulliver requested that they not be considered for a bonus in respect of 2008.
3 At the Chairmans request, he is not considered for an annual bonus award.
4 The change in currency for A A Flockhart reflects a change of expatriate terms.
The 2008 figure is on a gross equivalent basis.
The three Group measures are relative TSR 40 per cent of the award : economic Under the HSBC Share Plan, executive Directors, as profit 40 per cent : and growth in EPS 20 per cent.
with other participants in the Plan, are eligible to receive awards of Performance Shares with a face These measures provide a basis on which to value at grant of up to a maximum of seven times measure HSBCs relative and absolute performance salary.
The Group Chairman, S K Green, at his over the long-term taking into account an external request is no longer considered for awards of measure of value creation, a measure of the extent to Performance Shares.
The performance conditions which the return on capital invested in HSBC is in associated with these awards are detailed in excess of a benchmark return and a direct measure Description of performance conditions below.
of the profits generated for shareholders.
No awards of Performance Shares were made Awards will not vest unless the Remuneration in 2009, and no awards have been made to date in Committee is satisfied that HSBC Holdings 2010.
Awards may be considered later in 2010, financial performance has shown a sustained taking into account performance and the market improvement in the period since the award date.
determining whether HSBC Holdings has achieved such sustained improvement the Remuneration The average actual vesting of Performance Committee will take account of all relevant factors, Share awards made in 2004, 2005 and 2006 which in particular, comparisons against the TSR were tested in 2007, 2008 and 2009 has been 23 per comparator group in areas such as revenue growth cent of their face value.
The awards made in 2006 and mix, cost efficiency, credit performance, cash did not satisfy the earnings per share EPS return on cash invested, dividends and TSR.
condition but did satisfy the total shareholder return TSR condition and accordingly, 39.5 per cent of The performance conditions are measured over the TSR element of the award 19.75 per cent of the a three year performance period and awards forfeited overall award vested.
The awards made in 2007 to the extent that they have not been met.
have not satisfied the earnings per share measure.
The performance measures and the targets The extent to which the TSR part of the award will described below apply to awards made in 2008 vest will be determined following the completion of and any awards to be made in the future.
The the three year comparison period on 26 March 2010.
Remuneration Committee will review annually whether the performance targets remain appropriate Description of performance conditions and challenging, or whether they should be The performance measures for the long-term recalibrated for any future awards, taking into incentive awards of Performance Shares under the account factors such as economic expectations, the HSBC Share Plan remain as follows.
industrys outlook and shareholders interests.
The Committee will consult in accordance with The vesting of awards is based on institutional shareholder guidelines on any further three independent performance measures and an changes proposed to the nature of the performance overriding sustained improvement judgement by 339
