risk management policies and measurement exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the techniques.
Each major operating entity has an effect of option features on the underlying independent market risk management and control exposures.
function which is responsible for measuring market The historical simulation models used by HSBC risk exposures in accordance with the policies incorporate the following features: defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed potential market movements are calculated with limits on a daily basis.
reference to data from the past two years: Each operating entity is required to assess the historical market rates and prices are calculated market risks which arise on each product in its with reference to foreign exchange rates and business and to transfer these risks to either its local commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices Global Markets unit for management, or to separate and the associated volatilities: and books managed under the supervision of the local VAR is calculated to a 99 per cent confidence Asset and Liability Management Committee level and for a one-day holding period.
The aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within operations which have the HSBC routinely validates the accuracy of its necessary skills, tools, management and governance VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit to manage such risks professionally.
In certain cases and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled where the market risks cannot be adequately items such as fees and commissions, against the captured by the transfer process, simulation corresponding VAR numbers.
Statistically, HSBC modelling is used to identify the impact of varying would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only scenarios on valuations and net interest income.
1 per cent of the time over a one-year period.
The actual number of excesses over this period can HSBC uses a range of tools to monitor and limit therefore be used to gauge how well the models are market risk exposures.
analysis, value at risk VAR and stress testing.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should Sensitivity analysis always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
Unaudited For example: Sensitivity measures are used to monitor the market the use of historical data as a proxy for risk positions within each risk type, for example, estimating future events may not encompass all present value of a basis point movement in interest potential events, particularly those which are rates, for interest rate risk.
Sensitivity limits are set extreme in nature: for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth the use of a one-day holding period assumes that of the market being one of the principal factors in all positions can be liquidated or the risk offset determining the level of limits set.
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a Value at risk one-day holding period may be insufficient to Audited liquidate or hedge all positions fully: VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses the use of a 99 per cent confidence level, by that could occur on risk positions as a result of definition, does not take into account losses that movements in market rates and prices over a might occur beyond this level of confidence: specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and The VAR models used by HSBC are based therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day predominantly on historical simulation.
These exposures: and models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on account of inter-relationships between different exposures that only arise under significant markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign market moves.
