HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 42 and 43 assets.
On 12 March 2009, Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 felony charges, including securities fraud, investment adviser fraud, mail fraud, wire fraud, three counts of money laundering, false statements, perjury, false filings with the SEC and theft from an employee benefit plan.
On 29 June 2009, Madoff was sentenced to 150 years in prison.
The relevant US authorities are continuing their investigations into the fraud, and have brought charges against others, including several Madoff Securities employees as well as its external auditor.
Some details of the fraud have come to light as a result of these and other investigations and proceedings: however, significant uncertainty remains as to the facts of the fraud and the total amount of assets that will ultimately be available for distribution by the Madoff Securities trustee.
Various non-US HSBC companies provide custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the aggregate net asset value of these funds which would include principal amounts invested and unrealised gains was US$8.4 billion.
Proceedings concerning Madoff and Madoff Securities have been issued by different plaintiffs including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee in various jurisdictions against numerous defendants and HSBC expects further proceedings may be brought.
Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg, and other jurisdictions.
All of the cases where HSBC companies are named as a defendant are at an early stage.
HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend them vigorously.
HSBC is unable reliably to estimate the liability, if any, that might arise as a result of such claims.
Various HSBC companies have also received requests for information from various regulatory and law enforcement authorities, and from the Madoff Securities trustee, in connection with the fraud by Madoff.
HSBC companies are cooperating with these requests for information.
Other litigation These actions apart, HSBC is party to legal actions in a number of jurisdictions including the UK, Hong Kong and the US arising out of its normal business operations.
HSBC considers that none of the actions is material, and none is expected to result in a significant adverse effect on the financial position of HSBC, either individually or in the aggregate.
Management believes that adequate provisions have been made in respect of the litigation arising out of its normal business operations.
HSBC has not disclosed any contingent liability associated with these legal actions because it is not practical to do so.
43 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings.
The number of Directors with such facilities during 2008 was 19.
Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year.
2009 2008 Highest Highest amounts amounts Balance at outstanding Balance at outstanding 31 December during year 31 December during year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Key Management Personnel Advances and credits................................................................ 736,112 1,406,877 217,383 475,048 Guarantees................................................................................ 31,785 34,048 25,249 42,178 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those Rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel At 31 December 2009 2008 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans................ 1,033 943 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially............................. 19,567 16,733 Number of HSBC Holdings preference shares held beneficially and non-beneficially......................... 8 8 Number of HSBC Holdings 8.125% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities held beneficially and non-beneficially........................................................................................................ 25 21 20,633 17,705 469 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Notes 43 and 44 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 21.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2009, US$4.2 billion 2008: US$3.5 billion of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies.
Fees of US$15 million 2008: US$26 million were earned by HSBC companies for these management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans.
HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of US$929 million 2008: US$430 million with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$3 million 2008: US$55 million.
In the first half of 2009, a gain of US$499 million was recognised by HSBC following a restructuring of the basis of delivery of death in service and ill health early retirement benefits to certain UK employees.
These benefits were provided by the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme but will now be provided outside the scheme.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities.
At 31 December 2009, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$23.7 billion 2008: US$17.7 billion, the swaps had a positive fair value of US$1.0 billion 2008: positive fair value of US$1.8 billion to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$2.8 billion 2008: US$2.4 billion to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC earned interest amounting to US$7 million 2008: US$59 million.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, there are special collateral provisions for the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme.
The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC.
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that provides the Trustee with a high level of confidence that would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc.
With the exception of the special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
