HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Non-life business Insurance risk Term assurance and critical illness policies which it stipulated that STIP products will also be provide cover in the event of death term subject to their remedies when sold in conjunction assurance and serious illness.
with or as a result of a referral following the sale of a loan or similar credit product.
HSBC has undertaken Linked life insurance contracts pay benefits to an analysis of the required changes to the STIP policyholders which are typically determined product and its sales processes resulting from the by reference to the value of the investments CCs remedies.
Following an appeal to the supporting the policies.
Competition Appeal Tribunal, the CC continues to Investment contracts with DPF allow consult on whether a ban on firms selling PPI at the policyholders to participate in the profits point of sale of the credit product is an appropriate generated by such business.
The largest and justified remedy for the deficiencies it identified portfolio is written in France.
Policyholders are in the PPI market.
guaranteed to receive a return on their Given the nature of the contracts written by the investment plus any discretionary bonuses.
In Group, the risks to which HSBCs insurance addition, certain minimum return levels are operations are exposed fall into two principal guaranteed.
categories: insurance risk and financial risk.
The Unit-linked investment contracts are those following section describes the nature and extent of where the principal benefit payable is the value these risks and HSBCs approach to managing them.
Any benefits payable to The majority of the risk in the insurance business policyholders related to insurance risk are not derives from manufacturing activities, and significant on these contracts.
consequently the following sections focus on how the Group manages risk arising in the manufacturing Other investment contracts include pension subsidiaries.
contracts written in Hong Kong.
Insurance risk Non-life insurance business Audited Audited Insurance risk is a risk, other than financial risk, Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and transferred from the holder of a contract to the other damage to property, accident and health, issuer, in this case HSBC.
repayment protection and commercial insurances.
The principal insurance risk faced by HSBC Motor insurance business covers vehicle is that, over time, the combined cost of damage and liability for personal injury.
For fire and claims, benefits, administration and other damage to property, the main focus in most markets is providing individuals with home and acquisition of the contract may exceed the contents insurance.
Cover is also provided for aggregate amount of premiums received selected commercial customers, largely written in and investment income.
The cost of claims and benefits can be A very limited portfolio of liability business is influenced by many factors, including mortality and written, other than that included in the motor book.
morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in of the assets held to support the liabilities.
North America, and is originated in conjunction with Performance of the underlying assets is affected by the provision of loans.
Following a decision taken to changes in both interest rates and equity prices see close the Consumer Lending business in the US, page 274. insurance products written in conjunction with this business will now be run off.
In December 2007, the During 2009, Group Insurance agreed to a group decided to cease selling payment protection global risk appetite statement in relation to insurance insurance PPI products in the UK and a phased risks, encompassing limits on the largest exposures withdrawal was completed across the HSBC, first the business will write in normal circumstances.
In direct and M&S Money brands during 2008.
HFC addition to the global statement, local businesses ceased selling single premium PPI in 2008 and sales continue to propose their own risk appetites that are of regular PPI will reduce as HFC exits its remaining authorised centrally.
HSBC continues to distribute its Life and non-life business insurance risks are UK short-term income protection STIP product.
controlled by high-level policies and procedures set In January 2009, the Competition Commission centrally, supplemented as appropriate with CC published its report into the PPI market in 266
