REGIONAL REVIEW Revenue growth of 17 per cent and Global Drive Brand volume up 4 per cent in the economic climate experienced in 2009, is an outstanding performance.
Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer Market shares increased in a number of markets Kent volumes fell by 4 per cent mainly as OVERVIEW but, on an organic basis, volumes were down a result of industry declines in Russia and 3 per cent mainly as a result of deteriorating Japan, its principal markets and despite a The Group grew revenue by 17 per cent economies which led to declines in the total higher market share in Eastern Europe and in very difficult times, to 14,208 million.
size of a number of markets and, in some an increased premium segment share in This was the result of favourable exchange markets, down-trading and an increase in Russia.
Volumes grew in Kazakhstan, Ukraine, rate movements, good pricing momentum, illicit trade.
Good volume growth in Bangladesh, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan, while they were volume from acquisitions made in the middle South Korea, Vietnam, Uzbekistan, Nigeria, slightly down in Romania.
Dunhill rose by of 2008 Skandinavisk Tobakskcompagni ST Egypt and the Gulf Cooperation Council GCC 9 per cent, mostly driven by a brand migration and Tekel and the acquisition of Bentoel in was more than offset by declines in Malaysia, in Brazil, with growth in South Korea, the June 2009.
Revenue increased by 10 per cent Japan, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Venezuela, GCC, South Africa and Russia, partially offset at constant rates of exchange.
All the regions Italy, Russia, Ukraine, Romania and South Africa.
by declines in Malaysia, Taiwan and Australia.
contributed to this good result.
Despite market size declines in many countries, Lucky Strike volumes were 4 per cent higher The reported profit from operations was the four Global Drive Brands achieved good with growth in Germany, France, Italy and 15 per cent higher at 4,101 million.
Adjusted overall volume growth of 4 per cent and Chile, partially offset by declines in Spain, profit from operations was 20 per cent higher improved share in a number of markets.
Japan and Argentina, largely as a result of and would have been up 10 per cent at Just over half of the growth was contributed the industry volume decline.
Market share constant rates of exchange, despite the adverse by brand migrations.
Although there was grew well across all its key markets.
Pall Mall transactional impact of exchange rates on costs.
pressure on the premium segment, Dunhill volumes increased by 10 per cent with growth Group volumes from subsidiaries were grew market share in all its key markets, in Germany, Uzbekistan, Spain, Mexico, Chile 724 billion, an increase of 1 per cent, as a result except in Taiwan, while Kent increased market and Turkey, partially offset by lower volumes of the acquisitions of ST, Tekel and Bentoel.
share in its main markets, apart from Japan.
in Pakistan, Russia, Romania and Hungary.
Percentage of Group profit per region Western Europe 5 1 Eastern Europe 4 Asia Pacific 3 2 Africa and Middle East 1.
AFRICA AND MIDDLE EAST 16% Associates 42 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 43
