Independent auditors report to the members of HSBC Infrastructure Company Limited We have audited the group and Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of HSBC Infrastructure Company We conducted our audit in accordance with International Limited for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity and the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the under the accounting policies set out therein.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of The Companies Guernsey We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we information and explanations which we considered necessary might state to the Companys members those matters we are in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements which give a true and fair view and are in accordance give a true and fair view, in accordance with International with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Financial Reporting Standards, as endorsed by the EU, of the EU, and are in compliance with applicable Guernsey law are set state of the groups and Companys affairs as at 31 March out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 36.
2009 and of the groups and Companys loss for the year then ended: and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in have been properly prepared in accordance with The accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view, are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
We also report to you if, in our KPMG Channel Islands Limited opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, or Chartered Accountants if we have not received all the information and explanations we 20 New Street, St Peter Port require for our audit.
Guernsey GY1 4AN We read the other information accompanying the financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with those 27 May 2009 statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
