Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2009 1.
Reporting entity HSBC Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2009 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Consolidated Group.
The Consolidated Group invests in infrastructure projects in the UK and Europe.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Consolidated Group.
Of the Consolidated Groups portfolio of 28 investments, 20 have been accounted for as purchases of investments the Entity Investments in accordance with the accounting policies set out in parts b and d of Note 2.
The eight remaining investments are deemed to be subsidiaries of the Company the Operating Subsidiaries, and are therefore treated as business combinations as described in parts b and c of Note 2.
Certain items of the accounting policies apply only to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Where applicable, this is noted in the relevant accounting policy note.
Key accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 May 2009.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair values: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Consolidated Groups functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The Directors have assessed the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern with regard to the risks of the business, in particular those listed in Note 4, and are of the view that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions.
Supplementary information has been provided analysing the income statement between those items of a revenue nature and those of a capital nature, in order to better reflect the Consolidated Groups activities as an investment company.
Those items of income and expenditure which relate to the interest and dividend yield of investments and annual operating and interest expenditure are shown as revenue.
Those items of income and expenditure which arise from changes in the fair value of investments, foreign exchange movements, finance receivables and derivative financial instruments are recognised as capital.
Standards adopted early by the Consolidated Group In previous years the following standards were adopted early by the Consolidated Group: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures adopted 2007 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures adopted 2007 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements adopted 2007 In the years ending 31 March 2007 and 31 March 2008 IFRIC 12 had not been endorsed by the EU.
Therefore the Directors agreed to adopt the principles of IFRIC 12.
There would have been no difference in the numbers reported if IFRIC 12 had been fully adopted by HICL in the previous years financial statements.
During the year IFRIC 12 was endorsed by the EU and the standard has been fully adopted by the Consolidated Group.
During the year no new standards have been adopted early by the Consolidated Group.
Key accounting policies continued New standards effective for the current year The following standards which have been applied in this years financial statements are: IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment provides guidance on the recognition of impairment losses with respect to IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions the definition of vesting conditions in IFRS 2 has been amended to clarify that vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
Under the amendment, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in measuring the grant date fair value of the share-based payment and there is no true-up of equity-settled arrangements for differences between expected and actual outcomes.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction IFRIC 14 clarifies the requirements of IAS 19 paragraph 58, which limits the measurement of a defined benefit asset to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan plus unrecognised net actuarial losses and past service cost: this is known as the asset ceiling.
The IFRIC addresses when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available: how a minimum funding requirement might affect the availability of reductions in future contributions: and when a minimum funding requirement might give rise to an additional liability.
The adoption of these standards has not led to any changes in the Consolidated Groups accounting policies.
Standards not yet applied As at 31 March 2009 the following standards applicable to the Consolidated Group, which have not been applied in this financial information, were in issue and endorsed by the EU but not yet effective: IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate the amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 address issues that have arisen in practice related to the accounting for investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in separate financial statements at cost in accordance with paragraph 38 a of IAS 27.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments this standard replaces IAS 14 and requires segment disclosure based on the components of an entity that management monitors in making operating decisions, rather than disclosure of business and geographical segments.
Even where an entity has only one reportable segment, which will be unusual, IFRS 8 will now require disclosure of information about the entitys products and services, its geographical areas, including sales by country and major customers.
IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements these amendments to IAS 1, constitute Phase A of the IASBs project on performance reporting.
Where previously companies were required to present only one of either a SORIE or a SOCIE, the amendments require companies to present both a SOCIE and either a statement of comprehensive income or an income statement accompanied by a statement of other comprehensive income as financial statements formerly referred to as primary statements.
IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs the amendments remove the option of expensing borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets.
Although the amendments are intended to clarify definitions of qualifying assets and eligible borrowing costs especially in the case of land under development the amendments are not intended to change the definitions fundamentally.
If adoption of the revised Standard constitutes a change in accounting policy for an entity, then the entity should apply the revised Standard to borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets for which the commencement date for capitalisation of borrowing costs is on or after the effective date.
IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation the amendments provide exemptions from the requirement to classify as a liability financial instruments under which an entity has an unavoidable obligation to deliver cash.
The exemptions apply to two categories only of instruments issued by an entity.
They are: a puttable financial instrument: or an instrument, or components of instruments, that impose on the entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation.
This scope exemption relating to the classification of instruments is applicable only when accounting for the instruments under IAS 1, IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 7.
Consequently the scope exemption should not be applied when accounting for instruments under other IFRSs, e. g. under IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 43 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 2.
Key accounting policies continued Standards not yet applied continued Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 the Improvements to IFRSs 2008, which are endorsed for use in the EU, is the result of the IASBs first annual improvements project AIP.
The Improvements to IFRSs 2008 contains 35 amendments and is divided into two parts: Part I includes 24 amendments that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes Part I amendments.
The effective dates and transitional requirements are set out on a standard by standard basis.
Part II includes 11 terminology or editorial amendments that the IASB expects to have either no or only minimal effects on accounting Part II amendments.
The amendments in Part II shall be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the above standards in future years will not have a material impact on the financial statements of the Consolidated Group.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Consolidated Group include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries up to 31 March 2009.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities as defined in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line by line basis from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Six of the eight subsidiaries have a different statutory financial reporting date to the Company, being 31 December.
Their results for the year to 31 March are included by reference to management accounts.
Associates are those entities over which the Company has significant influence as defined in IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Joint ventures are those entities over which the Company has joint control as defined by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 31.1, investments in such entities are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Intra-Group receivables, liabilities, revenue and expenses are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Gains that arise from intra-group transactions and that are unrealised from the standpoint of the Consolidated Group on the balance sheet date are eliminated in their entirety.
Unrealised losses on intra-group transactions are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, to the extent that the loss does not correspond to an impairment loss.
c Acquisition of subsidiaries All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition over the Consolidated Groups share of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed including intangible assets of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be measured reliably, sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Costs comprise the fair values of assets given and liabilities assumed, plus any direct costs of acquisition.
d Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Consolidated Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Key accounting policies continued i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, finance receivables, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Investments in equity and debt securities Entity Investments investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Consolidated Group are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Consolidated Group manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement.
Finance receivables Finance receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, finance receivables are measured at fair value using the discounted cash flows methodology, with changes recognised in the income statement as gains loss on finance receivables as a capital item.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of the consideration received, less transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Operating Subsidiaries hold derivative financial instruments to mitigate their interest rate risk and inflation rate risk exposures.
All derivatives are recognised initially at fair value with attributable transaction costs recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Thereafter, derivatives are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Fair value is based on price quotations from financial institutions active in the relevant market.
The Consolidated Group has not used hedge accounting.
iii Fair values The fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
iv Effective interest The effective interest rate is that rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the relevant assets carrying amount.
e Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised as part of a business combination if they are reliably measurable and separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
Only one category of intangible asset has been recognised as part of a business combination to date, being the fair value of service concessions in Operating Subsidiaries as at the date of acquisition.
Fair values were determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to the services portion of the service concessions acquired at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates and the specific risks of each project.
These assets are being amortised over the life of the concessions concerned on a straight-line basis.
The accounting policies for intangible assets arising under IFRIC 12 are disclosed in part k of this note.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 45 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 2.
Key accounting policies continued f Impairment i Financial assets A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
ii Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Consolidated Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any evidence of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value in use.
The value in use is determined as the net present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount after the reversal does not exceed the amount that would have been determined, net of applicable depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
g Share capital and share premium Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or associated with the establishment of the Company that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
h Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
i Minority interests The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the carrying value of the minority interest are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to the extent that the minority has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
j Revenue i Services revenue Services revenue in accordance with IFRIC 12, which relates solely to the Operating Subsidiaries, is comprised of the following components: revenues from the provision of facilities management services to Private Finance Initiative PFI projects calculated as the fair value of services provided see note k i : non-core facility recharges being recovered for ad hoc services delivered by the PFI projects at the request of the client: availability fees and usage fees on PFI projects where the principal asset is accounted for as an intangible asset see note k ii : and third party revenues on PFI projects.
Key accounting policies continued ii Gains on finance receivables Gains on finance receivables relate solely to the Operating Subsidiaries.
Revenue Gains on finance receivables included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to finance receivables designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Interest income arising on finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated at the acquisition or origination date.
Dividends are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of finance receivable is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant finance receivable.
Fees and other operating income are recognised when the Consolidated Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Capital Gains on finance receivables included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the finance receivables excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
iii Gains on investments Gains on investments relates solely to the Entity Investments.
Revenue Gains on investments included in the revenue category includes interest, dividends and other operating income relating to the Entity Investments.
Interest income arising on Entity Investments is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective interest rate of the instrument concerned as calculated at the acquisition or origination date.
That part of the dividend which has already been recognised in the fair value of investments is deducted from the carrying amount of the relevant investment.
Capital Gains on investments included in the capital category arise from the movement in the fair value of the Entity Investments excluding the movements shown as revenue above.
k Service concessions In accordance with IFRIC 12 and the various provisions of IFRS, the Consolidated Group has determined the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from, PFI and similar contracts within the Operating Subsidiaries.
Results of all service concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies depending on the rights to consideration under the service concessions: i Service concessions treated as financial assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to finance receivables where the Consolidated Group, as operator, has an unconditional contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Revenue is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable to construction income and service income.
The consideration received will be allocated by reference to the relative fair value of the services delivered, when the amounts are separately identifiable.
During the construction phase, revenue is recognised at cost, plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, in accordance with IAS 11.
Costs for this purpose include valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certified or not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general administration of the relevant companies.
During the operational stage, cash received in respect of the service concessions is allocated to service revenue see part j i of this note based on its fair value, with the remainder being allocated between capital repayment and interest income using the effective interest method see part j ii of this note.
The finance receivables are designated as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with part d of this note.
The fair values of the finance receivables are determined in a similar manner to that described in part d i, with changes recognised in the income statement.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 47 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 2.
Key accounting policies continued ii Service concessions treated as intangible assets Service concessions are determined to give rise to intangible assets to the extent the Consolidated Group, as operator, has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
The intangible asset represents the construction cost of assets which give rise to the contractual right to charge.
The intangible asset is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
Revenue arising in respect of these service concessions is recognised when the services are delivered.
l Borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying assets are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Other borrowing costs are expensed.
m Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Dividend and interest income received by the Consolidated Group may be subject to withholding tax imposed in the country of origin of such income, but all such tax is currently recoverable.
Income tax on the profit for the year of the Operating Subsidiaries comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, except for differences arising on: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit: and investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
n Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions entered into by group entities in a currency other than their functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as capital amounts.
o Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Consolidated Group is engaged in a single segment of business, being investment in Private Finance Initiative companies and predominantly in one geographical area, the United Kingdom.
p Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The Consolidated Groups investment management and administration fees, finance costs including interest on long-term borrowings and all other expenses are charged through the consolidated income statement.
q Dividends Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when declared by the directors.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at the AGM.
Key accounting policies continued r Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Consolidated Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Consolidated Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
s Statement of compliance Pursuant to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
i Investments at fair value through profit or loss The Consolidated Group has a greater than 50% shareholding in certain entities see Note 14, where in the opinion of the Directors it is unable to govern the financial and operating policies of the entities by virtue of agreements with the other shareholder s. These entities are consequently not treated as subsidiaries, and instead they are accounted for as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, as set out in Note 2 b.
By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1 and IAS 31.1, investments in associates and joint ventures are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The carrying amount of the PFI PPP investments would be an estimated 7.0m higher or 6.7m lower 2008: 11.6m higher or 11.1m lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The weighted average discount rate for the portfolio as at 31 March 2009 was 8.1% 2008: 7.5%.
ii Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss Fair values are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
The carrying amount of finance receivables would be an estimated 15.9m higher or 15.3m lower 2008: 3.1m higher or 3.0m lower if the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow analysis were to differ by 25 basis points from that used in the fair value calculation.
The discount rates at 31 March 2009 were between 5.0% and 6.4% 2008: between 5.5% and 6.8%.
iii Adoption of IFRIC 12 IFRIC 12 has been applied in this years financial statements.
Previously the Directors decided to adopt early the principles of IFRIC 12.
The full adoption of IFRIC 12 has not changed the financial statements.
As part of this process, the service concessions of each subsidiary were assessed to determine whether they fell within the scope of IFRIC 12.
Service concessions fall within the scope where the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and the price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service agreement.
Following this review it was determined that all eight subsidiaries controlled at the year end, fall within this scope.
Service concessions are determined to be finance receivables where the operator has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 49 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 4.
Financial instruments Financial risk management Financial risk is managed by the Group on an investment basis, so for the purposes of this note, the Group comprises the Company, its two wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL and HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL and the English Limited Partnership Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership IILP, and is referred to as the Investment Group see Group Structure diagram on page 77.
The objective of the Investment Groups financial risk management is to manage and control the risk exposures of its investment portfolio.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of financial risks, however the review and management of financial risks are delegated to the Investment Adviser and the Operator of the Group which has documented procedures designed to identify, monitor and manage the financial risks to which the Investment Group is exposed.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to financial risks, its objectives, policies and processes for managing risk and the Groups management of its financial resources.
The Investment Group owns a portfolio of investments predominantly in the subordinated loanstock and ordinary equity of project finance companies.
These companies are structured at the outset to minimise financial risks where possible, and the Investment Adviser and Operator primarily focus their risk management on the direct financial risks of acquiring and holding the portfolio, but continue to monitor the indirect financial risks of the underlying projects through representation, where appropriate, on the Boards of the project companies and the receipt of regular financial and operational performance reports.
Interest rate risk The Investment Group invests in subordinated loanstock of project companies, usually with fixed interest rate coupons.
Where floating rate debt is owned the primary risk is that the Consolidated Groups cash flows will be subject to variation depending upon changes to base interest rates.
The portfolios cash flows are continually monitored and reforecasted both over the near future five year time horizon and the long-term over whole period of projects concessions to analyse the cash flow returns from investments.
The Investment Group has made limited use of borrowings to finance the acquisition of investments and the forecasts are used to monitor the impact of changes in borrowing rates against cash flow returns from investments as increases in borrowing rates will reduce net interest margins.
The Groups policy is to ensure that interest rates are sufficiently hedged to protect the Groups net interest margins from significant fluctuations when entering into material medium long term borrowings.
This includes engaging in interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivative contracts.
The Investment Group has an indirect exposure to changes in interest rates through its investment in project companies, which are financed by senior debt.
Senior debt financing of project companies is generally either through floating rate debt, fixed rate bonds or index linked bonds.
Where senior debt is floating rate, the projects typically have concession length hedging arrangements in place, which are monitored by the project companies managers, finance parties and boards of directors.
Floating rate debt is hedged using fixed floating interest rate swaps.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 5.5m higher or 5.5m lower 2008: 3.1m higher or 3.1m lower if the interest rates used in the fair value calculation of the interest rate swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
The finance costs in the income statement would be an estimated 2.4m higher or 2.4m lower 2008: 1.7m higher or 1.7m lower if the RPI rates used in the fair value calculation of the inflation swaps were to differ by 25 basis points.
Inflation risk The Groups project companies are generally structured so that contractual income and costs are either wholly or partially linked to specific inflation where possible to minimise the risks of mismatch between income and costs due to movements in inflation indexes.
The Investment Groups overall cashflows are estimated to partially vary with inflation.
The effects of these inflation changes do not always immediately flow through to the Investment Groups cashflows, particularly where a projects loanstock debt carries a fixed coupon and the inflation change flows through by way of dividends.
Market risk Returns from the Investment Groups investments are affected by the price at which they are acquired.
The value of these investments will be a function of the discounted value of their expected future cash flows, and as such will vary with, inter alia, movements in interest rates, market prices and the competition for such assets.
Currency risk The projects in which the Group invests all conduct their business and pay interest, dividends and principal in Sterling other than its investment in Dutch High Speed Rail project, which conducts its business and pays its interest, dividends and principal in Euros.
The Group monitors its foreign exchange exposures using its near term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
Its policy is to use foreign exchange hedging to provide protection to the level of Sterling distributions that the Investment Group aims to pay over the medium term, where considered appropriate.
This may involve the use of forward exchange and other currency hedging contracts, as well as the use of Euro and other currency denominated borrowings.
The Investment Group hedged its Euro exposure on its investment in Dutch High Speed Rail project through 46.7m of Euro borrowings which are included within loans and borrowings see Note 20, and through the forward sale of Euros.
Financial instruments continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the Group will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the Group.
The Groups key direct counterparties are the project companies in which it makes investments.
The Investment Groups near term cash flow forecasts are used to monitor the timing of cash receipts from project counterparties.
Underlying the cash flow forecast are project company cash flow models, which are regularly updated by project companies and provided to the Operator, for the purposes of demonstrating the projects ability to pay interest and dividends based on a set of detailed assumptions.
Many of the Investment Groups investment and subsidiary entities generally receive revenue from government departments, and public sector or local authority clients.
Therefore a significant portion of the Groups investments revenue is with counterparties of good financial standing.
The Group is also reliant on the projects subcontractors continuing to perform their service delivery obligations such that revenues to projects are not disrupted.
The Investment Adviser has a subcontractor counterparty monitoring procedure in place.
The credit standing of subcontractors is reviewed, and the risk of default estimated for each significant counterparty position.
Monitoring is ongoing, and period end positions are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Investment Groups largest credit risk exposure to a project at 31 March was to the Dutch High Speed Rail project 19% of portfolio by value and the largest subcontractor counterparty risk exposure was to subsidiaries of the Bouygues group which provided facilities management services in respect of 31% of the portfolio by value.
Cash investments and derivative transactions are limited to financial institutions of a suitable credit quality.
The Consolidated Group has a broad spread of financial counterparties with no material issues to report.
An analysis of exposure to banks by deposit value and project value is included in the Investment Advisers Report.
As at 31 March 2009, the ageing of trade receivables overdue but not impaired were as follows: 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million 3 to 6 months due 0.1 0.1 Over 6 months due 0.1 0.1 No classes within trade and other receivables contain impaired assets.
The Consolidated Groups maximum exposure to credit risk over financial assets is the carrying value of those assets in the balance sheet.
The Consolidated Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as these fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to meets its liabilities when due.
The Investment Groups investments are predominantly funded by share capital and medium term debt funding.
The Investment Groups investments are generally in private companies in which there is no listed market and therefore such investment would take time to realise and there is no assurance that the valuations placed on the investments would be achieved from any such sale process.
One of the Investment Groups investments is a loan to Kemble Water, the acquisition vehicle for Thames Water.
There is an informal unlisted market for this investment providing a level of liquidity above that of the Investment Groups other investments.
The Investment Groups investments have borrowings which rank senior to the Investment Groups own investments into the companies.
This senior debt is structured such that, under normal operating conditions, it will be repaid within the expected life of the projects.
Debt raised by the investment companies from third parties is without recourse to the Investment Group.
The Investment Groups investments may include obligations to meet future subscription amounts.
These obligations will typically be supported by standby letters of credit, issued by the Investment Groups bankers in favour of the senior lenders to the investment companies.
Such subscription obligations are met from the Investment Groups cash resources when they fall due.
Such obligations totalled nil 2008: 20.5m at the year end.
The Investment Group currently has a committed 200m five year revolving bank facility expiring in December 2012.
The facility is of a sufficient size to meet the Investment Groups foreseeable funding requirements, and to provide significant headroom available to support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities be identified and executed.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 51 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 4.
Financial instruments continued The table below analyses the Consolidated Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts in the table are the contracted undiscounted cashflows.
Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2009 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 13.5 12.0 101.2 214.6 Trade and other payables 15.0 Interest on bank borrowings 17.6 16.8 45.4 158.2 Other loans and borrowings 9.9 13.0 32.2 236.9 Interest on other loans and borrowings 13.1 12.9 36.8 151.8 Total 69.1 54.7 215.6 761.5 Less than Between Between More than 31 March 2008 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years million million million million Bank borrowings 8.3 8.8 155.9 76.6 Trade and other payables 19.1 Interest on bank borrowings 7.7 7.0 17.6 49.1 Letter of credit facility 20.5 Other loans and borrowings 0.7 0.7 2.0 32.5 Interest on other loans and borrowings 2.0 2.0 5.6 15.6 Total 58.3 18.5 181.1 173.8 Capital management The capital structure of the Consolidated Group consists of loans and borrowings note 20, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Boards policy when managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to sustain the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Investment Group may issue new shares or raise medium long term third party debt.
From time to time the Investment Group may, at the sole discretion of the Directors, purchase its own shares in the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Any changes will be considered in the light of the impact they have on shareholders return on their equity.
The Board aims to achieve a progressive distribution policy and grow annual distributions to 7.0p per share within four years.
There were no changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the period.
Fair value estimation The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Non-derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Consolidated Group uses the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to risk free rates, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
Derivative financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Consolidated Group is the current bid price.
Note 2 discloses the methods used in determining fair values on a specific asset liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset or liability.
Financial instruments continued Classification of financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Financial assets Designated at fair value through profit or loss Investment in entity investments 280.1 384.7 Operating subsidiaries financial assets 646.6 170.4 Financial assets at fair value 926.7 555.1 Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables 7.6 9.1 Cash and cash equivalents 54.2 27.2 Financial assets at amortised cost 61.8 36.3 Financial liabilities Designated at fair value through profit or loss Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 76.4 11.4 Financial liabilities at fair value 76.4 11.4 At amortised cost Trade and other payables 15.0 20.6 Current tax payable 0.2 0.5 Loans and borrowings 617.1 276.0 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 632.3 297.1 The Directors believe that the carrying values of all financial instruments, except the fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds, are not materially different to their fair values.
See note 20 for the comparison between fair values and the carrying values of the fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds.
Secured bank and bond borrowings totalling 606.7m 2008: 241.8m are secured by fixed and or floating charges over the Consolidated Groups financial assets.
Gains on investments For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2008 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest from investments 17.2 17.2 18.4 18.4 Dividend income from investments 1.9 1.9 4.6 4.6 Fees and other operating income 2.8 2.8 0.5 0.5 Loss gains on valuation Note 14 16.1 16.1 0.2 0.2 21.9 16.1 5.8 23.5 0.2 23.7 Included within loss gains on valuation is an unrealised exchange loss of 4.8m on the Consolidated Groups Euro borrowings 2008: 7.6m.
The Euro exchange rate used as at 31 March 2009 was 0.93 2008: 0.80.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 53 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 6.
Service costs For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 million million Service costs 47.2 12.7 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 13 6.4 2.1 Other costs 1.8 1.1 55.4 15.9 7.
Administrative expenses For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 million million Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors for the audit of the Consolidated Group accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Consolidated Groups auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys Operating Subsidiaries and other audit related services 0.2 0.2 Taxation advisory services 0.1 Advisory fees 0.1 Management fees Note 23 5.8 4.6 Investment fees Note 23 0.3 0.7 Directors fees Note 23 0.1 0.1 Professional fees 0.5 0.4 Project bid costs 0.6 0.3 Other costs 0.9 0.4 8.5 7.0 In addition to the above an amount of 0.1m 2008: 0.1m was paid to associates of the Consolidated Groups auditors in respect of audit and tax services provided to Entity Investments and therefore not included within consolidated administrative expenses.
The Consolidated Group had no employees during the year.
Net finance costs For the year ended For the year ended 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2008 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total million million million million million million Interest expense: Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 16.4 16.4 12.9 12.9 Interest and indexation on other loans 19.9 19.9 3.2 3.2 Other finance costs 1.4 8.3 9.7 0.2 0.2 Change in fair value of interest and inflation rate swaps 29.5 29.5 6.1 6.1 Total finance costs 37.7 37.8 75.5 16.3 6.1 22.4 Interest income: Interest on bank deposits 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 Other finance income 0.9 0.9 Total finance income 1.5 0.9 2.4 1.5 1.5 Net finance costs 36.2 36.9 73.1 14.8 6.1 20.9 54 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 9a.
Income tax expense For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 million million Foreign current tax: Foreign corporation tax on loss profits for the year 0.3 0.7 Total current tax expense 0.3 0.7 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1.9 0.2 Total income tax credit expense in the income statement 1.6 0.9 As noted in note 2 m the Company is exempt from paying tax in Guernsey.
Therefore, income from investments is not subject to any further tax in Guernsey, although these investments will bear tax in the individual jurisdictions in which they operate.
Subsidiaries in the UK have provided for UK corporation tax at the rate of 28% 2008: 30%.
The UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 30% to 28% commencing 1 April 2008.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 million million Loss profit before taxation 12.4 9.2 Expected tax on loss profit at 0% 2008:0% Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions 0.3 3.7 Utilisation of tax losses 1.3 2.8 Total income tax credit expense for the year 1.6 0.9 9c.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: As at 31 March 2009 As at 31 March 2008 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 3.4 18.3 14.9 6.7 6.7 Intangible assets 48.5 48.5 4.7 4.7 Subordinated debt 8.5 1.2 7.3 1.4 0.7 0.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 18.4 8.2 10.2 2.9 0.1 2.8 Tax losses 5.0 5.0 3.7 3.7 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 27.6 27.6 Other 0.9 0.9 Net assets liabilities 35.3 103.8 68.5 8.0 13.1 5.1 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 55 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 9d.
Deferred tax movements For the year ended 31 March 2009 For the year ended 31 March 2008 Acquired in Opening business Recognised in Closing Opening Recognised in Closing balance combination profit or loss balance balance profit or loss balance million million million million million million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 6.7 9.4 1.2 14.9 8.6 1.9 6.7 Intangible assets 4.7 42.4 1.4 48.5 5.0 0.3 4.7 Subordinated debt 0.7 7.0 0.4 7.3 1.3 0.6 0.7 Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 2.8 4.5 2.9 10.2 1.1 1.7 2.8 Tax losses 3.7 2.6 1.3 5.0 6.5 2.8 3.7 Carrying value of finance receivable on acquisition where there is no available tax deduction 27.6 27.6 Other 0.9 0.9 0.2 0.7 0.9 5.1 65.3 1.9 68.5 4.9 0.2 5.1 10.
Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the loss profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2009 2008 Loss profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 14.1m 6.8m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 325.1m 250.0m Basic and diluted loss earnings per share 4.3 pence 2.7 pence Details of shares issued in the year are set out in Note 22.
Dividends For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 million million Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 3.2p 2007: 3.225p per share 8.0 8.1 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 3.125p 2008: 3.05p per share 10.5 7.6 18.5 15.7 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 3.275p 2008: 3.2p per share 11.1 8.0 The second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 20 May 2009 and is payable on 30 June 2009 to shareholders on the register as at 29 May 2009.
The second interim dividend is payable to shareholders as a cash payment or alternatively as a scrip dividend.
The dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 March 2009.
The 2008 second interim distribution and the 2009 interim distribution are included in the statement of changes in shareholder equity.
Dividends continued For year ended For year ended For year ended 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 million million million Interim dividend for the period ended September 3.125p 3.05p 2.875p Interim dividend for the period ended March 3.275p 3.20p 3.225p 6.4p 6.25p 6.1p 12.
Net assets The calculation of net assets per share is based on shareholders equity of 376.1m as at 31 March 2009 302.2m as at 31 March 2008 and 338.3m 2008: 250m ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Intangible assets 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Cost Opening balance 32.2 32.2 Acquisition through business combinations 147.3 Balance as at 31 March 179.5 32.2 Amortisation Opening balance 4.2 2.1 Amortisation for the year 6.4 2.1 Balance as at 31 March 10.6 4.2 Carrying amounts At 31 March 168.9 28.0 Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Intangibles are being amortised on a straight line basis over the forecast remaining life of the concessions concerned on acquisition of the subsidiaries range from between 11.5 and 30.5 years.
Amortisation of 6.4m 2008: 2.1m is included within service cost expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Opening balance 384.7 293.9 Investments in the year 30.7 82.9 Accrued interest 4.3 11.4 Repayments in the year 4.2 2.4 Subscription obligations 20.5 Loss gain on valuation 15.4 1.4 Investments consolidated during the year 139.7 Other movements 0.8 2.5 Carrying amount at year end 280.1 384.7 Loss gain on valuation as above 15.4 1.4 Less: transaction costs incurred 0.7 1.2 Loss gain on investments 16.1 0.2 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 14.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss continued The Investment Adviser has carried out fair market valuations of the investments as at 31 March 2009.
The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount rates applied and the valuation.
The Directors have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party, with considerable expertise in valuing these type of investments, supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
The Kemble Water junior loan was valued on a market quote basis and the other investments, which are all investments in PFI PPP projects, are valued using a discounted cashflow methodology.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have been applied consistently with the prior year.
Discount rates applied range from 7.8% to 8.6% weighed average of 8.1% 2008: 7% to 12% weighted average of 7.5%.
The following economic assumptions were used in the discounted cashflow valuations: UK inflation rates Zero for 2 years to March 2011 and 2.75% thereafter UK deposit interest rates 1% for 2 years to March 2011 and 4.5% thereafter Euro Sterling exchange rate 0.93 for all future periods Details of investments recognised at fair value through profit or loss were as follows: Percentage Holding 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Subordinated Mezzanine Subordinated Mezzanine Investments project name Equity loanstock debt Equity loanstock debt Barnet Hospital 51.0% 99.0% 100.0% Bishop Auckland Hospital 36.0% 36.0% 100.0% 36.0% 36.0% 100.0% Blackburn Hospital 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Central Middlesex Hospital 85.0% 100.0% Colchester Garrison 42.0% 42.0% 42.0% 42.0% Darlington Schools 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Defence Sixth Form College 45.0% 45.0% 45.0% 45.0% Durham and Cleveland Firearms Training Centre 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Dutch High Speed Rail Link 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% Ealing Schools 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% GMPA Police Stations 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Haverstock School 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Health & Safety Laboratory 80.0% 90.0% 80.0% 90.0% Health & Safety HQ 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Helicopter Training Facility 21.8% 21.8% 21.8% 21.8% Home Office 80.0% 100.0% Kemble Water Junior Loan 3.6% 3.6% MPA South East London Police Stations 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% MPA Specialist Training Centre 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% North Tyneside Schools 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 50.0% 50.0% Pinnacle Schools, Fife 40.0% 40.0% 100.0% 40.0% 40.0% 100.0% Sussex Custodial Centre 82.3% 82.3% 82.3% 82.3% West Middlesex Hospital 95.0% 96.3% Wooldale Centre 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Incremental acquisitions of additional stakes during the year has resulted in these investments being deemed subsidiaries of the Company see Note 15 and 27.
The Consolidated Groups economic interest in the Helicopter Training project includes the above investment in CAE Aircrew Training Services Plc Op Co and the controlling interest in CVS Leasing Limited Asset Co see note 27.
Acquisition of subsidiaries During the year the Group acquired additional interests in the equity and loan stock of West Middlesex Hospital, Central Middlesex Hospital, UK Home Office and Barnet Hospital PFI projects.
These acquisitions take the Groups economic interest in these four projects to 100% in each.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interests in these projects was 12.7m.
The transaction costs for the four acquisitions in aggregate were 0.3m.
Prior to the acquisition of the remaining equity these PFI projects were held as investments at fair value and therefore there has been no gain or loss as a result of re-measuring to fair value the interests held prior to the acquisitions.
Fair values were determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
Intangible assets represent the fair value of customer contracts for operating subsidiary projects recognised on acquisition, which are primarily attributable to the service portion of the project contracts, and intangible assets recognised under IFRIC 12.
Intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining life of the concessions concerned.
West Middlesex Hospital In July 2008 the Group acquired 5% of the equity and 2% of the loan stock in the project bringing the total equity and loan stock interests to 100%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the July acquisition was 12.7m.
This project is a concession to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 228 bed hospital in West Middlesex, UK which became operational in June 2003.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 12.5 12.5 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 50.3 2.6 52.9 Deferred tax assets 1.0 0.8 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2.6 2.6 Other current assets 1.3 1.3 Current liabilities 1.8 1.8 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2 4.2 Other non-current liabilities 54.8 2.8 57.6 Net assets acquired 1.4 8.9 7.5 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 7.5 Fair value of consideration for loanstock 9.2 16.7 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 16.0 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 0.7 Cash acquired 2.6 Net cash inflow 1.9 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 59 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 15.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Central Middlesex Hospital In July 2008 the Group acquired 15% of the equity in the project bringing the total equity interest to 100%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the July acquisition was 13.2m.
This project is a concession to design, construct, finance, operate and maintain hospital facilities for 214 beds and three main theatres, as well as refurbishing some existing facilities, on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London, UK.
Construction was completed in January 2007.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 45.2 45.2 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 77.5 4.7 82.2 Deferred tax assets 9.0 0.5 9.5 Cash and cash equivalents 5.4 5.4 Other current assets 2.0 2.0 Current liabilities 1.7 1.7 Deferred tax liabilities 14.0 14.0 Other non-current liabilities 115.2 1.6 116.8 Net assets acquired 23.0 34.8 11.8 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 11.8 Fair value of consideration for loanstock 9.3 21.1 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 19.7 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 1.4 Cash acquired 5.4 Net cash inflow 4.0 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Home Office In July 2008 the Group acquired 20% of the equity in the project bringing the total equity interests to 100%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the July acquisition was 70.2m.
This project is a concession commissioned by the UK Home Office to build, finance, operate and maintain a new headquarters building to replace their existing offices on a 4.3 acre site, followed by the construction of a building comprising three purpose-built interconnecting office blocks to accommodate up to 3,450 staff.
Construction was completed in January 2005.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 80.0 80.0 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 272.6 17.5 290.1 Deferred tax assets 29.6 0.4 30.0 Cash and cash equivalents 18.3 18.3 Other current assets 4.5 4.5 Current liabilities 3.6 3.6 Deferred tax liabilities 57.0 27.3 84.3 Other non-current liabilities 296.6 1.8 298.4 Net assets acquired 32.2 68.8 36.6 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 36.6 Fair value of consideration for loanstock 51.4 88.0 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 81.8 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 6.2 Cash acquired 18.3 Net cash inflow 12.1 The Group has taken advantage of the provisions within IFRS 3 Business Combinations and has adjusted these assets and liabilities recognised in the 30 September 2008 Interim Report.
The adjustment is due to additional deferred tax liabilities provided on temporary differences arising from the carrying amount of the finance receivable where there is no available tax deduction.
The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 61 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 15.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued Barnet Hospital In December 2008 and February 2009 the Group acquired 49% of the equity and 1% of loan stock in the project bringing the total equity and loan stock interests to 100%.
The aggregate consideration paid for the interests in the project before the December acquisition was 10.4m.
This project is a concession to design, construct, operate and maintain the re-building of Barnet General Hospital in North London for the Wellhouse National Health Service Trust.
The project has been operating since April 2000.
Book value Fair value Fair value at acquisition adjustments acquired million million million Intangible assets 9.6 9.6 Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 32.9 12.7 45.6 Deferred tax assets 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 10.4 10.4 Other current assets 2.2 2.2 Current liabilities 2.3 2.3 Deferred tax liabilities 6.2 6.2 Other non-current liabilities 42.6 7.4 50.0 Net assets acquired 0.6 10.8 11.4 Goodwill Fair value of consideration for equity 11.4 Fair value of consideration for loanstock 7.1 18.5 Less: Carrying amount of investment previously held as fair value through profit or loss 14.1 Consideration paid for the remaining interests 4.4 Cash acquired 10.4 Net cash inflow 6.0 The finance receivable in the book value at acquisition under IFRS is valued at amortised cost rather than at fair value through profit or loss, and therefore there is a fair value adjustment to reflect the fair value acquired.
If all the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2008, the estimated consolidated total income would have been 150.9m and consolidated loss for the year would have been 5.8m.
The aggregate loss in respect of the acquired subsidiaries was 5.5m during the year.
Year ended 31 March 2008 There were no acquisitions of subsidiaries during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Purchase of investment holding company Investments in holding companies are not treated as a business combination where the Directors judge that the holding companies have no real operations, business activities or material balances other than in investments they hold.
In these circumstances consideration is allocated between the individual assets and liabilities in the investment holding company based on their relative fair values at the date of acquisition.
Year ended 31 March 2009 In August 2008, the Group acquired a 50% interest in the equity and loanstock of The Hospital Company Oxford John Radcliffe Holdings Limited for a consideration price of 18.0m.
Year ended 31 March 2008 In August 2007, the Group acquired a 50.0% interest in the equity and the loanstock of four police PFI projects through the acquisition of a 100.0% interest in the vendors investment holding company, Amalie Infrastructure Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in these projects was 36.5m.
In October 2007, the Group acquired a 50.0% interest in the equity and the loanstock of five education projects and the Health and Safety Executives Merseyside headquarters through the acquisition of a 50.0% interest in the investment holding company, Redwood Partnership Ventures Limited.
The total consideration paid in cash for the interest in these projects was 30.2m.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued In December 2007 the Group acquired additional equity and debt interests in the Home Office PFI Project for total consideration of 14.4m.
The Group held 80.0% of the issued share capital of the Holding Company and 100.0% of the subordinated debt issued by the Holding Company as at 31 March 2008.
Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Finance receivables at fair value through profit or loss balance 646.6 170.4 The operating subsidiaries concession contracts with public sector bodies are considered as financial assets.
Gains in fair values of financial assets of 22.6m for the year ended 31 March 2009 2008: Loss 0.8m, are separately disclosed in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount.
See Note 3 ii for the methods and assumptions used in determining the fair values.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the financial assets in the balance sheet.
Interest income in relation to finance receivables of 29.7m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2009 as a revenue amount 2008: 8.0m.
Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Trade receivables 3.2 3.3 Other debtors 0.4 2.5 Prepayments and accrued income 4.0 3.3 7.6 9.1 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Bank balances 30.4 26.4 Call deposits 23.8 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 54.2 27.2 The effective interest rate on call deposits was between 0.3% and 2.2% 2008: 5.4%.
The deposits had a maturity of between 17 and 264 days 2008: 16 days.
Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Trade payables 3.6 0.9 Accruals 7.0 14.3 Other payables 4.4 5.4 15.0 20.6 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 20.
Loans and borrowings 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 327.9 234.2 Subordinated debt 10.4 11.2 RPI-linked bonds 171.6 22.0 Fixed rate bond 83.8 593.7 267.4 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 13.5 7.7 RPI-linked bonds 9.9 0.9 23.4 8.6 Total loans and borrowings 617.1 276.0 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: Weighted average effective Average year Carrying amount interest rate of maturity 2009 2008 million million Secured bank borrowings Operating Subsidiaries 5.9% 2029 274.6 119.5 Secured bank borrowings Partnership 5.8% 2012 66.8 122.4 Subordinated debt 12.9% 2020 10.4 11.2 RPI-linked bonds 6.8% 2030 181.5 22.9 Fixed rate bond 5.7% 2031 83.8 617.1 276.0 The bonds are guaranteed by FSA UK Limited and Ambac Assurance UK Limited and are secured by a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the respective subsidiary companies.
The index-linked bonds are indexed annually and semi-annually using published RPI figures.
The index ratio uses a base index figure ranging from 173.3 to 174.5 and a numerator index figure that is published by the Office for National Statistics.
The fair value of all borrowings is deemed to reflect their carrying value, except fixed rate and RPI-linked bonds.
An analysis of fair values and carrying values of bonds is detailed below: 31 March 2009 31 March 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value million million million million RPI-linked bonds 181.5 173.9 22.9 22.9 Fixed rate bond 83.8 75.2 265.3 249.1 22.9 22.9 The currency profile of the Consolidated Groups loans and borrowings is as follows: 2009 2008 million million Pound Sterling 570.4 199.6 Euro 46.7 76.4 617.1 276.0 64 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 20.
Loans and borrowings continued The exchange rate used as at 31 March 2009 to convert the Euro loan was 0.93 2008: 0.80.
The Consolidated Group has the following undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 March: 2009 2008 Floating rate: million million Secured expiring within one year expiring between 1 and 2 years expiring between 2 and 5 years 131.3 54.9 expiring after 5 years 8.2 139.5 54.9 Unsecured expiring within one year 139.5 54.9 21.
Other financial liabilities fair value of derivatives 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 million million Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 55.1 6.1 Inflation swap 19.5 5.3 Forward foreign exchange contract 1.8 76.4 11.4 Financial liabilities have been fair valued in accordance with Note 2 d. The loss in fair values of interest and inflation rate swaps of 29.5m for the year ended 31 March 2009 2008: 6.1m is disclosed within finance costs in the consolidated income statement as a capital amount see Note 8.
In order to manage exposure to movements in interest rates, project companies financed by floating rate debt swap their floating rate exposure for fixed rates using interest rate swaps.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 March 2009 were 412.0m 2008: 264.8m.
The notional amount of the outstanding inflation rate swap contracts at 31 March 2009 was 1.4m 2008: 0.9m.
Share capital and reserves 2009 2008 Issued and fully paid: 000 000 338,288,733 31 March 2008: 250,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.01p each 33.8 25 2 Management Shares of 0.01p each 33.8 25 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Management Shares carry one vote each on a poll, do not carry any right to dividends and, in winding-up, rank only for a return of the amount of the paid-up capital on such shares after return of capital on Ordinary Shares and Nominal Shares.
The Management Shares are not redeemable and are accrued for and on behalf of a Guernsey charitable trust.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 65 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 22.
Share capital and reserves continued Retained reserves Retained reserves comprise retained earnings and the balance of the share premium account, as detailed in the consolidated statements of changes in shareholders equity.
Issued share capital On 16 May 2008 the Company announced the results of its Placing and Offer for Subscription of C shares.
The Company raised 103.6 m before expenses through the issue of 103,600,000 C shares at a price of 1.00 per C share, of which 7,123,913 C shares were issued pursuant to the offer for subscription and 96,476,087 C shares were issued by way of the placing.
The C shares were converted to 84,361,480 ordinary shares and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 4 June 2008.
On 10 September 2008 2m new ordinary shares were issued for cash to a single institutional investor at an issue price per share before expenses of 126.25p.
On 31 December 2008 0.3m new ordinary shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2009.
On 6 February 2009 1.6m new ordinary shares were issued for cash to a single institutional investor at an issue price per share before expenses of 115p.
Related party transactions HSBC Specialist Fund Management Ltd HSFML is the Companys Investment Adviser and the Operator of a limited partnership through which the Group holds its investments.
HSFMLs appointment as Investment Adviser is governed by an Investment Advisory Agreement which may be terminated after an initial four year term, starting in February 2006, by either party giving one years written notice.
The appointment may also be terminated if HSFMLs appointment as Operator is terminated.
The Investment Adviser is entitled to a fee of 0.1m per annum disclosed within management fees in Note 7 2008: 0.1m, payable half-yearly in arrears and which is subject to review, from time to time, by the Company.
HSFML has been appointed as the Operator of Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership by the General Partner of the Partnership, Infrastructure Investments General Partner Limited, a sister subsidiary of HSFML.
The Operator and the General Partner may each terminate the appointment of the Operator after an initial four year term, starting in February 2006, by either party giving one years written notice.
Either the Operator or the General Partner may terminate the appointment of the Operator by written notice if the Investment Advisory Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.
The General Partners appointment does not have a fixed term, however if HSFML ceases to be the Operator, the Company has the option to buy the entire share capital of the General Partner and HSBC Group has the option to sell the entire share capital of the General Partner to the Company, in both cases for nominal consideration.
In aggregate HSFML and the General Partner are entitled to fees and or profit share equal to: i 1.1 per cent per annum of the adjusted gross asset value of all investments of the Group that are not in either their construction or ramp-up phases: ii 1.5 per cent per annum of investments of the Group that are in either their construction or rampup phases, excluding investments acquired with the acquisition of the initial portfolio the ramp-up phase of an investment means the period following completion of a projects construction phase during which it is building up to be fully operational with full service provision : and iii 1.0 per cent of the value of new portfolio investments, that are not sourced from entities, funds or holdings managed by the HSBC Group.
The total Operator fees charged to the Income Statement disclosed within management fees in Note 7 was 4.9m 2008: 4.3m of which 2.5m remained payable at year end 2008: 2.3m.
The total charge for new portfolio investments disclosed as investment fees in Note 7 was 0.3m 2008: 0.7m of which nil remained payable at year end 2008: 0.3m.
Related party transactions continued Transactions during the year The following summarises the transactions between the Consolidated Group and its associates in the year: Transactions Balance Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2009 2008 2009 2008 million million million million Loanstock investments 30.5 36.9 178.3 226.6 Loanstock repayments 3.1 2.4 Equity investments 8.0 46.0 77.2 91.5 Equity repayments 1.1 2.0 Outstanding subscription obligations 20.5 Loanstock interest 17.2 16.9 6.4 12.6 Dividends received 1.9 4.6 Fees and other income 2.8 0.5 At 31 March 2009 the Consolidated Group had total cash holdings with HSBC Bank plc of 49.1m 2008: 10.4m.
Total interest income earned from cash holdings held with HSBC Bank plc for the year was 1.3m 2008: 0.5m.
The Consolidated Group paid 0.1m 2008: 0.1m to HSBC Insurance Brokers Limited in the year for premiums in respect of Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Consolidated Group entered into Euro to Sterling sale and forward sale agreements with HSBC Bank plc during the year.
Net payments paid in respect of these agreements were 6.5m 2008: 0.6m, and as at 31 March 2009 the mark to market of the outstanding Euro sale agreement was a 1.8m liability.
The Directors of the Consolidated Group, who are considered to be key management, received fees for their services.
Further details are provided in the Report of the Directors on page 33.
Directors expenses of 6,134 2008: 5,387 were also paid in the year.
RSM Henri Grisius & Associs, a firm of which Mr H. Grisius is a partner, earned 16,866 2008: 33,891 in fees for tax, accounting and administrative services provided in the year.
Amounts were billed based on normal market rates for such services and were due and payable under normal payment terms.
All of the above transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
Transactions in the prior year In the year ending March 2008, the Consolidated Group was charged 3.5m interest and fees relating to bank facilities with HSBC Bank plc.
During the prior year the Consolidated Group acquired additional equity and debt interests in the Home Office PFI Project for 14.4m from HSBC Infrastructure Limited.
The Groups investment adviser, HSBC Specialist Fund Management Limited is part of the same group as HSBC Infrastructure Limited.
Guarantees and other commitments There are no guarantees or other commitments as at 31 March 2009 2008: 20.5m commitment for future equity subscriptions to project investments.
Events after balance sheet date There were no events after the balance sheet date, which are required to be disclosed.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 67 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 26.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements The Group holds investments in 27 service concession arrangements in the Accommodation, Education, Health and Law and Order sectors.
The concessions vary on the required obligations but typically require the financing and operation of an asset during the concession period.
As at 31 March 2009 all 27 of the service concessions were fully operational.
The rights of both the concession provider and concession operator are stated within the specific project agreement.
The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to fulfil its requirements.
Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors Barnet Hospital Design, construct, operate and maintain 1999 2032 33 65m Ecovert South Ltd the re-building of Barnet General Hospital Compass Contract in North London for the Wellhouse Services UK Ltd National Health Service Trust.
Bishop Auckland Design, construct, finance, service and 1999 2062 60 with 66m ISS Mediclean Ltd Hospital maintain a redevelopment of Bishop break Auckland General Hospital, County clause Durham for South Durham Health option by Care NHS Trust.
Grantor at Year 30, 40 & 50 Blackburn Hospital Design, construct, finance and maintain 2003 2041 38 100m Haden Building new facilities at the Queens Park Hospital Management in Blackburn for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust.
Central Middlesex Design, construct, finance and maintain 2003 2036 33 75m Ecovert FM Ltd Hospital new hospital facilities, and to refurbish some existing facilities, for the Brent Emergency Care and Diagnostic Centre on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London.
Colchester Garrison Design, construct, finance and maintain a 2004 2039 35 550m Sodexo Defence new garrison facility at Colchester, Essex for Services Ltd The Secretary of State for Defence.
WS Watkins Facilities Management Ltd Conwy Schools Design, build, operate and maintain three 2003 2030 27 40m Sodexo Education schools for Conwy County Borough Council Services Ltd in North Wales.
Cleveland and Durham Construction of a state of the art firearms and 2000 2026 26 6m John Laing Integrated Police Tactical tactical training centre at Urlay Nook in the Services Ltd Training Centre North of England.
Construction completed successfully in March 2002.
Darlington Schools Darlington Schools is a four-school education PFI 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie PFI Ltd project consisting of an Education Village which brought together three existing schools and one primary school.
The facilities became available on a phased basis in 2005 and 2006.
Defence 6th Form Design, build, operate, finance and maintain a new 2003 2033 30 40m TQ Education and College residential sixth form college for the Secretary of Training Ltd State for Defence.
Interserve Defence Ltd Dutch High Speed Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain 2001 2031 30 625m Siemens Nederland By Rail one of the largest high speed railway projects in Koninklijke BAM NBM NV Europe to date.
Fluor Infrastructure BV Ealing Schools Ealing Schools is a four-school education PFI project 2004 2031 27 31m Mitie PFI Ltd consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in the London Borough of Ealing.
The schools became operational in 2004.
Exeter Crown Court Build and service a new crown and county court 2002 2034 32 20m Sodexo Ltd building in Exeter.
Fife Schools The facility involved the construction of 3 new 2001 2028 27 40m Sodexo Ltd schools and a sports hall, all of which have been constructed successfully and are now fully operational.
Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements continued Project Short description of Number Project Key concession arrangements Start date End date of years Capex subcontractors GMPA Police Stations Construction of 17 police stations on 16 sites 2002 2030 28 82m John Laing Integrated around Greater Manchester.
Construction of all Services Ltd stations were complete by September 2006.
Haverstock School Haverstock is a single school education PFI 2003 2030 27 21m Mitie PFI Ltd project consisting of a new secondary school on an existing school site on Haverstock Hill, Camden.
Phase 1 of the new school became operational in 2004 with subsequent phases handed over one year later.
Health & Safety HSE Merseyside HQ is an accommodation PFI 2002 2035 30 62m Honeywell Control Systems Merseyside HQ project.
It is a four-storey office building that Reliance Integrated serves as the HSEs operational headquarters Services Ltd and houses 1,500 employees.
The building became operational in 2005.
Health & Safety Building of new workshops and offices in Buxton 2002 2035 33 60m Interserve Facilities Laboratory and the disposal of old facilities at Sheffield.
Management Ltd Helicopter Training Design, construction, management, operation 1997 2037 40 with 100m Serco Ltd Facility and financing of a simulator based training break Vega Software facility for RAF helicopter pilots.
clause by Engineering Ltd Grantor at Year 20 Home Office HQ Build, finance, operate and maintain a new 2002 2032 29 200m Ecovert FM Ltd headquarters building to replace the Home Offices existing London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices.
MPA Specialist Construction of a firearms and public order 2001 2028 27 40m John Laing Integrated Training Centre training facility in Gravesend, Kent for the Services Ltd Metropolitan Police Authority.
Construction was completed in February 2003.
MPA SEL Police Construction of 4 police stations in South East 2001 2029 28 80m John Laing Integrated Stations London for the Metropolitan Police Authority.
Services Ltd Construction was completed in February 2004.
North Tyneside North Tyneside Schools is a four-school education 2002 2034 32 30m Mitie PFI Ltd Schools PFI project consisting of one secondary school Burnside and three primary schools Western, Marine, Coquet in North Tyneside.
The schools became operational in 2003 2004.
Oxford John Design, construction, management, financing, 2003 2036 33 161m Carillion Services Ltd Radcliffe Hospital operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary.
Construction was completed ahead of schedule in March 2001.
Stoke Mandeville Design, finance, construct, refurbish, operate and 2004 2036 30 40m Sodexo Healthcare Hospital maintain a new hospital facility for the Buckingham Services Ltd Hospitals NHS Trust.
Sussex Custodial Build and service three custody centres in Sussex 2001 2031 30 20m Reliance Task Centre for Sussex Police Authority.
The centres are at Management Ltd Worthing, Chichester and Brighton.
A fourth centre at Eastbourne was subsequently contracted for as a variation.
West Middlesex Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2001 2036 35 60m Ecovert FM Ltd Hospital new 228 bed hospital for West Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust.
Wooldale Centre Wooldale Centre for Learning is an education PFI 2003 2029 26 24m Mitie PFI Ltd for Learning project consisting of a Centre for Learning CfL comprising a secondary school with sixth form, public library, primary school and nursery on a large site in Northamptonshire.
The first phase of the CfL the primary school, library and part of the secondary school became operational in 2004.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 69 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2009 27.
Principal subsidiaries Ownership Name Country interest HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP Holdings 1 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% AGP 2 Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Annes Gate Property PLC United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Limited United Kingdom 100.0% CVS Leasing Limited United Kingdom 80.4% Enterprise Civic Buildings Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Civic Buildings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Holdings Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Metier Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Metier Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Reporting date 31 December 70 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009
