Analysis of the Groups Portfolio continued Ten largest investments Set out below are details of the ten largest investments in the portfolio and details of each project.
As at 31 March 2009, the largest investment the Dutch High Speed Rail Link project accounted for 19% of the portfolio.
Directors Valuation at 31 March at 31 March PROJECT 2009 2008 million million Barnet Hospital 18.5 12.6 Bishop Auckland Hospital 14.4 16.3 Central Middlesex Hospital 20.6 19.8 Colchester Garrison 49.1 48.3 Dutch High Speed Rail Link 83.1 76.4 Home Office 81.5 79.0 Kemble Water Junior Loan 18.4 26.1 MPA South East London Police Stations 14.0 15.1 Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 16.4 West Middlesex Hospital 18.0 16.3 Sub Total 334.0 309.9 Remaining investments 111.7 128.0 Total Directors Valuation 445.7 437.9 Barnet Hospital Central Middlesex Hospital The Barnet General Hospital project is a 33 year concession to The project is a 33 year concession to design, construct, finance design, construct, operate and maintain the rebuilding of Barnet and maintain new hospital facilities, as well as refurbishing some General Hospital in North London for the Wellhouse National existing facilities, on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North Health Service Trust.
Financial close was in February 1999.
The unit provides 214 beds and three project involved capital expenditure of approximately 65m.
The project involved capital expenditure of Construction was completed in March 2002. approximately 75m: financial close occurred in November 2003.
Construction completion was in March 2006.
Barnet Hospital Project Limited a joint venture company formed by Bouygues UK Limited and Ecovert FM Limited, both The building and maintenance contractor is Central Middlesex subsidiaries of Bouygues Construction S. A. was responsible for Hospital Project Limited, a joint venture company formed by the design and construction.
Ecovert South Limited, also a Bouygues UK Limited and Ecovert FM Limited, both subsidiary of Bouygues Construction S. A. is responsible for subsidiaries of Bouygues Construction S. A. maintenance and Compass Contract Services U. K. Limited trading as Medirest is responsible for soft facilities Colchester Garrison management catering, portering, cleaning etc.
Siemens The project is a 35 year concession to provide a new facility for Healthcare Services Limited has installed and is maintaining the Secretary of State for Defence in Colchester, Essex, UK.
medical imaging equipment and new IT and telecommunications.
Colchester Garrison provides accommodation for approximately 3,500 military and 750 civilian personnel.
The project is located Bishop Auckland Hospital on the original garrison site and partly on an adjacent brown field The project has a concession contract for up to 60 years to design, site owned by the Ministry of Defence.
Capital expenditure on construct, finance, service and maintain a redevelopment of the project was approximately 550m.
Construction was Bishop Auckland General Hospital, County Durham, UK, for South completed in April 2008 which was five months ahead of the Durham Health Care NHS Trust.
Financial close occurred in May original programme.
The project involved capital expenditure of approximately 66m.
Construction works completed in June 2002.
Catering, cleaning and transport services are provided by Sodexo Defence Services Limited.
WS Atkins Facilities The operating phase of the project involves the provision of Management Limited is responsible for estate and grounds certain non-clinical support services at the hospital including maintenance, contract management and security, waste maintenance, catering, housekeeping, porterage, switchboard management and lifecycle.
ISS is responsible for the soft Facilities Management FM services and in the year, it took on the responsibility for the hard FM services.
26 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 In April 2009, a memorial garden was officially opened at the MPA South East London Police Stations Colchester Garrison PFI project, dedicated to all the members of The South East London Police Stations project is a 25 year 16 Air Assault Brigade who have lost their lives since the Brigade operational term 80m PPP project involving the design and was formed in September 1999.
The memorial garden was construction of four new police stations for the Metropolitan designed, constructed and funded by RMPA Services plc the Police Authority in South East London.
Situated in Bromley, project company in which the Group has an investment.
Deptford, Lewisham and Sutton, these stations provide facilities for Borough operations, the Mounted Branch and the Serious Dutch High Speed Rail Link Crime Division.
Covering 34,000 square metres of internal space, The largest PPP project signed to date in the Netherlands, the the stations contain 96 custody cells and stabling for 24 horses.
Dutch high speed rail link provides a high-speed connection from Construction completion was in January 2004.
Schiphol Airport to the Belgian border.
The HSL Zuid project, as it is known locally, was developed for the Dutch Ministry of Hard and soft facilities management are provided by John Laing Transport, Public Works and Waste Management and the Ministry Integrated Services Ltd, a subsidiary of John Laing PLC.
These of Finance under a 25 year concession.
The project involves services include cleaning, catering, security and building capital expenditure of over 625m and includes track, noise maintenance, together with the provision of property officers, attenuation, signalling, power distributions and communications front office staff, typists and custody assistants.
Financial close was in October 2001.
Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital Certificates of Availability have been issued for both the North The Oxford John Radcliffe PFI project is a 33 year concession to and Southern sections.
Maintenance obligations are carried out design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain a new by a joint venture comprising Siemens Nederland BV, Koninklijke Childrens Hospital and new Wing adjacent to the existing BAM NBM NV and Fluor Infrastructure BV.
The delivery of the high speed trains not the responsibility of the The new wing was successfully constructed by Carillion project is expected later this year.
Construction Ltd and reached operational completion in December 2006.
The new facilities built under the contract Home Office formed the West Wing and the New Childrens Hospital.
The project is a 29 year concession commissioned by the UK A number of adult and children services were relocated from the Home Office to build, finance, operate and maintain a new Radcliffe Infirmary and other sites within the Oxford Radcliffe headquarters building to replace their existing office Hospitals NHS Trust to centralise them into one facility.
accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices in Westminster, London.
The project involved capital expenditure of Facilities management services are sub-contracted to Carillion approximately 200m and the demolition of the existing offices Services Ltd. on a 4.3 acre site, followed by the construction of a building comprising three purpose-built interconnecting office blocks to In November 2008, Her Majesty The Queen and His Royal accommodate up to 3,450 staff.
Construction was completed Highness The Duke of Edinburgh visited the Childrens Hospital in January 2005. and the West Wing at the John Radcliffe Hospital to mark their official opening.
The services being provided include health and safety, cleaning, catering and energy management.
Operations are West Middlesex Hospital managed by Ecovert FM Limited, a facilities management The project is a 35 year concession to design, construct, finance, subsidiary of Bouygues.
operate and maintain a new 228 bed hospital in West Middlesex, UK.
Financial close occurred in January 2001 and the project Kemble Water Junior Loan involved capital expenditure of approximately 60m.
This is a participation of 30m in the junior term loan facility for Construction was completed on time in June 2003.
Kemble Water, the vehicle set up to acquire RWE Thames Water Holdings Thames Water.
Kemble Water acquired the whole Building management services comprise the repair and of Thames Water from RWE, including the regulated UK water maintenance of plumbing and security systems as well as health business and non-regulated businesses this includes Thames and safety services.
Catering, laundry, cleaning, porterage and Waters property, commercial, and international businesses.
security services are also being provided.
Operations are being managed by Ecovert FM Limited, the facilities management The regulated business supplies water to approximately 8m subsidiary of Bouygues Construction S. A. people 3.4m properties and sewerage services to approximately 13m people 5.3m properties.
Measured by customer numbers, it is currently the largest water and sewerage company in the UK.
