Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing this report and Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law this directors report, further confirms that, to the best of his and regulations.
knowledge the financial statements in this annual report have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the Directors to standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that financial position and losses of the Company and the group taken law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in as a whole: and this report, includes a fair review of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and development and performance of the business and the position applicable law.
of the Company and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and Company and of Disclosure of Information to the Auditors the profit or loss of the group and Company for that period.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are there is no relevant audit information of which the group and required to: Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and establish that the group and Companys auditors are aware prudent: of that information.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been Auditors followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and Company will continue in business.
Approved by the Board on 27 May 2009.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements and that to the best of their knowledge and belief: a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and losses of the group and Company: and b This annual report provides a fair review of the information required by: DTR 4.1.
8 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being a fair review of the group and Company business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and Company: and DTR 4.1.
11 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being an indication of important events that have occurred since the end of the financial year and the likely future development of the group and Company.
