124 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Information on ICAP plc Company No 3611426 can be found on the Dividend payments directly into bank building society accounts Companys website, www.
Dividends for shareholders are paid through BACS and can be paid directly into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct Company Secretary and registered office to the shareholders registered address.
A dividend mandate form is Deborah Abrehart, ICAP plc, 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR.
available from Equiniti Limited or from its website, www.
co. uk, Financial calendar under the Frequently Asked Questions section.
2009 Transferring ICAP shares 19 May Results for year ended 31 March 2009 announced Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
These forms are available by calling the ICAP shareholder 15 July Annual general meeting, London helpline 0871 384 2509.
15 July Ex-dividend date for final dividend Lost ICAP share certificate s 17 July Record date for final dividend Shareholders who lose their share certificate s or have their certificate s stolen should inform Equiniti Limited immediately by calling the ICAP 21 August Final dividend payment shareholder helpline, 0871 384 2509.
Following the share split it is only November Results for half year to 30 September 2009 announced the ICAP ordinary 10p share certificates that are valid.
2010 ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it January Ex-dividend date for interim dividend uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity January Record date for interim dividend through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh February Interim dividend payment Foundation.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Equiniti Limited.
Further information about ShareGift is available at May Results for year ending 31 March 2010 announced www.
July Annual general meeting, London Share dealing August Final dividend payment A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through Equiniti Limited which provides a simple way of selling ICAP shares.
For further November Results for half year to 30 September 2010 announced information visit www.
You will need your shareholder reference number shown on your Registrar share certificate.
Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
For shareholders with hearing difficulties a special text phone number is available, 0871 384 2255.
Information about current holdings is available at www.
Shareholders will need their reference number account number and Depositary for ICAP plc Level 1 ADR Program postcode to view information on their own holding.
The Company established a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR program in December 2004.
The Bank of New York was appointed as the Frequent shareholder enquiries depositary bank for the program.
ICAPs ADRs trade on the OTC market Notifying the Company of a change of address under the symbol IAPLY and its CUSIP number is 450936109.
Each ADR Shareholders should notify the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, in represents two ordinary shares.
If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first named shareholder.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Charges from other telephone providers may vary.
Notifying the Company of a change of name To ensure the details of a shareholding are correct, notification of a change of name should be made in writing to Equiniti Limited.
A copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed should be provided as evidence of the name change.
Design and production by Radley Yeldar | www.
com Printed by Park Communications Limited The document is printed on Era Silk, which is produced from 50% genuine waste pulp, the balance being ECF pulp from wellmanaged certified forests.
The paper is also FSC certified and manufactured at an ISO 14001 accredited mill.
This ensures there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the finished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be credited by a third party.
