IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 55 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2009 The Group and Company financial statements are presented 1.
Authorisation of financial in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
statements and statement of compliance with IFRS Going concern The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year concern basis which requires the directors have a reasonable ended 31 May 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue directors on 21 July 2009 and the balance sheet signed on the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Boards behalf by TA Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in Basis of consolidation England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on The Group financial statements consolidate the financial the London Stock Exchange.
statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date, as listed in The Group and Company financial statements have been note 15. prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, they apply to the financial statements of the Group and of being the date on which the Group obtains control, and the Company for the year ended 31 May 2009 and applied in continue to be consolidated until the date that such control accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit Company are set out in note 2. from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Accounting policies financial statements of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the Basis of preparation same reporting year as the parent company and are based on The accounting policies which follow have been applied consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances in preparing the financial statements for the year ended and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, 31 May 2009. are eliminated.
The Group has presented its consolidated income statement in a On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities columnar format.
This enables the Group to continue its practice of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit of acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the for the year before amortisation and impairment of intangibles fair value of consideration paid including an estimate of any arising on consolidation.
This is the profit measure used to contingent or deferred consideration and the directly attributable calculate adjusted EPS see note 11 and is considered to be the costs of the acquisition.
Contingent or deferred consideration is most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying re-measured at each balance sheet date.
Any excess of the cost cash earnings.
Profit before amortisation and impairment of of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets intangibles arising on consolidation is reconciled to profit before acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost tax on the face of the income statement.
of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the profit and The preparation of financial statements requires management loss in the period of acquisition.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could differ and contingent liabilities recognised.
Losses applicable to the from those estimates.
minority in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the minority interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, further losses applicable to the minority, are allocated against the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc has the majority interest except to the extent that the minority has a not been presented in these financial statements.
The amount binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt with in the to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc is 51,600,000 such profits are allocated to the majority interests until the 2008: 35,641,000. minoritys share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
