IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 75 16.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the cash generating units CGUs, as follows: Group 2009 2008 000 000 Financial 100,946 100,946 Sport 5,250 5,250 US business 4,690 3,829 Japanese business 106,079 216,965 110,025 Goodwill arising on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc on 5 September 2003 has been allocated according to the profitability of the Financial and Sport CGUs at that date.
The identification of the Groups CGUs was reviewed subsequent to the acquisition of FXOnline.
As a result, goodwill arising on the acquisitions of each of HedgeStreet and FXOnline has been allocated to the separate US business and Japanese business CGUs respectively as these businesses generate largely independent cash flows.
For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill the carrying amount of each CGU including goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount of each CGU and any deficits are provided.
The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
The estimated recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value-in-use calculated as the total of the present value of projected five-year future cash flows and a terminal value.
Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations The calculation of value-in-use for the CGUs is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the three-year plan period 2008: two year period : The long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation: Discount rate being the weighted average cost of capital WACC : Client recruitment rates: and Average revenue per client.
Projected future cash flows for each CGU were based on the Board-approved three-year plan 2008: two-year period comprising a one-year budget and two-year forecast 2008: one-year which reflect past experience as well as future expected trends.
Cash flows beyond the relevant plan period for example years four and five in the cash flow model for 2009 were estimated using a range of subsequent growth rates in order to allow for differing growth scenarios.
These ranges are disclosed in the following table and are consistent with the long-term growth rates of the Financial and Sport businesses, being 39% and 3.5% respectively, measured over a five-year period.
The cash flows for the US and Japanese businesses were translated into Sterling using period end market rates.
The cash flows were discounted using pre-tax discount rates WACC as disclosed in the table below.
These were derived using region-specific, market-based cost of equity and debt assumptions in order to reflect both the financing cost and risk associated with each CGU.
The long-term growth rates g used in the terminal value calculations are disclosed below and are equivalent to or lower than the respective long-term growth rate for the economy in which the CGU operates.
