IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 55 Notes to the Financial Statements at 31 May 2009 The Group and Company financial statements are presented 1.
Authorisation of financial in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
statements and statement of compliance with IFRS Going concern The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc the The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year concern basis which requires the directors have a reasonable ended 31 May 2009 were authorised for issue by the Board of the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue directors on 21 July 2009 and the balance sheet signed on the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Boards behalf by TA Howkins and S Clutton.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in Basis of consolidation England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on The Group financial statements consolidate the financial the London Stock Exchange.
statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date, as listed in The Group and Company financial statements have been note 15. prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, they apply to the financial statements of the Group and of being the date on which the Group obtains control, and the Company for the year ended 31 May 2009 and applied in continue to be consolidated until the date that such control accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit Company are set out in note 2. from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
Accounting policies financial statements of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the Basis of preparation same reporting year as the parent company and are based on The accounting policies which follow have been applied consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances in preparing the financial statements for the year ended and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, 31 May 2009. are eliminated.
The Group has presented its consolidated income statement in a On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities columnar format.
This enables the Group to continue its practice of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit of acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the for the year before amortisation and impairment of intangibles fair value of consideration paid including an estimate of any arising on consolidation.
This is the profit measure used to contingent or deferred consideration and the directly attributable calculate adjusted EPS see note 11 and is considered to be the costs of the acquisition.
Contingent or deferred consideration is most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups underlying re-measured at each balance sheet date.
Any excess of the cost cash earnings.
Profit before amortisation and impairment of of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets intangibles arising on consolidation is reconciled to profit before acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost tax on the face of the income statement.
of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the profit and The preparation of financial statements requires management loss in the period of acquisition.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
proportion of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could differ and contingent liabilities recognised.
Losses applicable to the from those estimates.
minority in a consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the minority interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, further losses applicable to the minority, are allocated against the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc has the majority interest except to the extent that the minority has a not been presented in these financial statements.
The amount binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt with in the to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc is 51,600,000 such profits are allocated to the majority interests until the 2008: 35,641,000. minoritys share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 56 Notes to the Financial Statements Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment 2.
Accounting policies continued at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value Basis of consolidation continued and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual Minority interests represent the portion of profit or loss and values are based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the expected presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, useful lives as follows: separately from parent shareholders equity.
Leasehold improvements - over the lease term of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the up to 15 years year are included in the consolidated income statement from Office equipment, fixtures and fittings - over 5 years the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of Computer and other equipment - over 2, 3 or 5 years disposal, as appropriate.
Motor vehicles - over 4 years Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities immediately to their recoverable amount.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Foreign currencies disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of arise from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 15.
The Groups arising on derecognition of an asset is determined as the most significant functional currency is Sterling.
Transactions in difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency of the asset and is included in the income statement in the by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the period of derecognition.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated Goodwill at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid over at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of was determined.
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to to the income statement, except for exchange differences arising cash generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
Cash on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
they are recognised in profit or loss.
Business combinations on or after 1 June 2004 are accounted On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method.
Any excess of the overseas operations are translated into Sterling at exchange cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill recognised as an arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as asset as at 31 May 2004 is recorded at its carrying amount under assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the UK GAAP and is not amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the closing rate.
acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of be impaired.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 57 Impairment of assets 2.
Accounting policies continued At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the Goodwill continued directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated and intangible assets to determine whether there is any to the related cash-generating units monitored by management, indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
usually at business segment level or statutory company level If any such indication exists or at least annually for goodwill, as the case may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from income statement.
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present values Intangible assets using a pre-tax discount rate.
This rate reflects current market Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated assessments of the time value of money as well as the risks amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than combination such as a trade name or customer relationship its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced is recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its an expense immediately.
fair value can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is there is any indication that previously recognised impairment taken to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A only after all the following criteria are met: previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there the projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can has been a change in the estimates used to determine the be demonstrated: assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset the availability of adequate technical and financial resources is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed: cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been and determined, had no impairment loss been recognised for the the correlation between development costs and future revenue asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised has been established.
as income immediately, although impairment losses relating to Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, goodwill may not be reversed.
with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their impairment losses.
expected useful lives, as follows: Client lists - straight-line basis over the expected Operating leases trading life of up to five years Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains Development costs - straight-line basis over three years substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Software and licences - straight-line basis over the contract Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as term of up to five years an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless Trade names - sum-of-digits method over another systematic basis is more representative of the time two years pattern of the users benefit.
Customer relationships - sum-of-digits method over five years Financial instruments The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment The Group determines the classification of its financial whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the carrying value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying categories outlined below and re-evaluates this designation value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for at each financial year end.
When financial instruments are impairment annually before being brought into use.
recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 58 Notes to the Financial Statements the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees 2.
Accounting policies continued incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at Trade receivables and trade payables fair value through profit or loss Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for positions are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from to clients trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this and brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with category and relate to trade receivables and trade payables as the same counterparty where a legally enforceable netting shown in the balance sheet.
Financial instruments are classified agreement is in place and where it is anticipated that assets and as held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short liabilities will be netted on settlement.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge exposures resulting from derivatives with clients, which Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and are also classified as held for trading.
clients where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions result in All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss an amount due to the Group.
A provision for impairment is are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses established where there is objective evidence of recognised in the income statement.
Reference is made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject to management review.
Determination of fair value Bets and other derivative financial instruments are stated at fair Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and value determined by reference to third party market values bid clients where the combination of cash held on account and prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions.
the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group.
For all other derivative financial instruments where there is no underlying active market, the fair value is determined using an Prepayments and other receivables appropriate valuation technique as determined by the Group at Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial the year end.
assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not Derecognition of financial assets and been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such assets liabilities are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
recognised in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
A provision Financial assets for impairment is established where there is objective evidence A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash of non-collectability.
flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation Cash and cash equivalents to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits which may a pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its be accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or three months from the date of acquisition.
For the purposes b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks of the consolidated cash flow statement, net cash and cash and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred with the client money rules of the Financial Services Authority control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of FSA and other regulatory bodies.
This money is included the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing within cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet and the involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the corresponding liability to clients is included in trade and other transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying payables.
The return received on managing client balances is amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration included within finance revenue.
that the Group could be required to repay.
Other payables Financial liabilities Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an method if the time value of money is significant.
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 59 Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the 2.
Accounting policies continued proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual Taxation arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after payable and movements in deferred tax.
deducting all of its liabilities.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Own shares held in Employee statement because it excludes items of income or expense that Benefit Trusts are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Consideration or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, Deferred tax is generally accounted for on all temporary with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue used in the computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred or cancellation of equity shares.
tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Revenue recognition that taxable profits will be available, against which deductible Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic temporary differences may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from and the revenue can be reliably measured.
goodwill or negative goodwill or from the initial recognition Rendering of services includes gains and losses on the running other than in a business combination of other assets and of betting markets and trading in financial markets, net of liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the commissions expensed.
Open positions are carried at fair accounting profit.
market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary recognised in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, positions that have closed.
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the Finance revenue is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The effective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right all or part of the asset to be recovered.
to receive the payment is established.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply Cost of sales when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based Cost of sales represents duties and levies charged on betting on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the revenues.
Betting duties are charged at a fixed rate on aggregate balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the net client losses.
income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also Operating profit dealt with in equity.
Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a profit loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other net basis.
Classification of shares as debt Finance costs or equity The interest cost recognised in the income statement is accrued When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial on a time basis by reference to the principal amount charged at liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest rate is sheet: measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and the rate that exactly discounts the future expected cash flows to thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are included in the or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating to the determination of the effective interest rates.
liability component are charged as interest expense in the income statement.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 60 Notes to the Financial Statements IFRS 8 Operating Segments applies to accounting periods 2.
Accounting policies continued beginning after 1 January 2009.
This standard replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and will not affect the results of the Retirement benefit costs Group but will require a change in the disclosure of segmental The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
IFRS 8 amends the current segmental reporting are charged to the income statement as and when they become requirements of IAS 14 and requires management approach payable according to the rules of the schemes.
to be adopted so that segmental information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
Share-based payments The Company operates two employee share plans: a Share IAS 1 Amendments Presentation of Financial Statements Incentive Plan SIP and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP both of applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. which are equity-settled.
The cost of these awards is measured The amendments prohibit the presentation of items of income at fair value based on the market price of the Companys shares and expense that is non-owner changes in equity in the at the date of the grant and are recognised as an expense in the statement of changes in equity.
The amendment also sets out income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period the additional disclosure requirements for entities making based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that restatement or reclassifications, and clarifies the classification will eventually vest.
of of items held for trading in accordance with IAS 39.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment applies to expense is calculated representing the extent to which accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
This the vesting period has expired and managements best amendment clarifies that vesting conditions are service estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market and performance conditions only.
It also specifies that all conditions determining the number of equity instruments cancellations should receive the same accounting treatment that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense whether cancelled by the entity or by other parties.
since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation and income statement as part of administrative expenses, with a IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements corresponding entry in equity.
Puttable Instruments and Instruments with obligations The Company also operates a Shadow SIP scheme for overseas arising on Liquidation applies to accounting periods staff, which is cash settled.
The fair value of these awards is beginning after 1 January 2009. measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions of statements applies to accounting periods beginning after the award.
A liability is recognised over the expected vesting 1 July 2009.
The revised standard requires the effects of all period and until the liability is settled it is re-measured at each transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in reporting date with changes in fair value recognised in the equity if there is no change in control.
An amendment to the income statement.
standard that applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009 clarifies the interaction of IFRS 5 and IAS 30 Recent accounting developments with regards to investments in subsidiary operations.
IFRIC interpretations which are effective for the year ended 31 May 2009 but are not relevant to the Group: IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 July 2009.
The revised standard IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements includes significant changes to how the acquisition method is IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum applied to business combinations.
Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRS 5 Amendment Non-current assets held-for-sale and Standards and interpretations that have been issued with an effective discontinued operations applies to accounting periods date after the date of these financial statements: beginning after 1 July 2009.
The amendment clarifies the disclosure requirements where the partial sale of a subsidiary The Group has not applied these standards and interpretations results in a loss of control.
in the preparation of these financial statements.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption of the IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of assets applies to standards and interpretations is still under review, but the Group accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. does not expect any of these changes to have a material effect The amendment requires that, where fair value less costs on the results or net assets of the Group in the period of initial to sell is calculated based on discounted cash flows, application.
The Group expects to apply the following standards disclosures equivalent to those for a value in use calculation from their respective effective dates.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Notes to the Financial Statements 61 IAS 31 Amendment Interests in joint ventures applies to 2.
Accounting policies continued accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
Recent accounting developments IAS 38 Amendment Intangible Assets applies to accounting continued periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment IAS 38 Amendment Intangible Assets applies to accounting deletes wording that states that there is rarely, if ever support periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment for use of a method of amortisation that results in a lower rate allows the recognition of a prepayment only in the event that than the straight-line method.
payment has been made in advance of obtaining right of IAS 40 Amendment Investment Property applies to access to goods or receipt of services.
accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment brings property that is under construction or IAS 19 Amendment Employee benefits applies to accounting development for future use as an investment property within periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment the scope of IAS 40. clarifies certain accounting and valuation of defined benefit plans and alters the distinction of short term and long term IAS 41 Amendment Agriculture applies to accounting periods employee benefits.
The amendment relates to IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and the valuation methodologies for biological assets.
Measurement applies to accounting periods beginning after IAS 20 Amendment Accounting for government grants and 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies certain definitions disclosure of government assistance applies to accounting and aligns the example of a segment for inter-segment periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendment hedging with IFRS 8. relates to accounting for the benefit of a below market rate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation government loan.
applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes applies to accounting Standards and interpretations that are not yet effective and are not periods beginning after 1 July 2008. relevant to the Groups operations: IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IAS 23 Amendments Borrowing Costs applies to accounting applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
The amendments IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners applies to to the standard require an entity to capitalise borrowing accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers applies to asset period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost transfers after 1 July 2009. of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing borrowing costs is removed.
The amendments also align the definition of Critical accounting estimates borrowing costs with that in IAS39.
and judgements IAS 16 Amendment Property plant and equipment and In the directors opinion there are no critical accounting estimates consequential amendment to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows or judgements that have a significant risk of causing material applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities The amendment relates to entities whose ordinary activities within the next financial year.
are renting and subsequently selling assets.
The accounting estimates or judgements that have the most IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates applies to significant impact on the financial statements are the estimation accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009. of share-based payment costs see note 25, the measurement The amendment requires that the investment in an and impairment of goodwill see note 16, the impairment of associate is treated as a single asset for the purposes of trade receivables see note 5 and the assessment of net market impairment testing.
risk and associated disclosures see note 30.
IAS 29 Amendment Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies applies to accounting periods beginning after 1 January 2009.
