Creating choice Sky began 20 years ago with a set of powerful ideas.
The belief that bringing more choice to more people is a fundamentally good thing.
The confidence that customers will respond to new opportunities and that competition drives up standards and quality for everyone.
Weve invested billions and taken some big risks to bring this vision to life.
It began with a wider choice of television channels, offering depth and breadth of programming in sport, movies, news, entertainment and much more.
The range of content we offer has changed dramatically since then, and so has the way we deliver it.
Its easy to forget just how much has changed since Sky launched on 5 February 1989.
For UK television viewers, life 20 years ago was very different.
With a choice of four channels showing a limited range of programmes, it was little more than one size fits all.
There were a handful of news bulletins at set times, the occasional film, a smattering of childrens programming and every now and again some live sports coverage.
Today, there has been an explosion of choice in what we can watch.
But its not just about more, its also about better.
We strive to offer a more personal mix of distinctive programmes to satisfy every mood and occasion, and to suit individual tastes and interests.
Skellig, Sky1s magical adaptation of David Almonds 08 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 award-winning book.
Creating choice Audiences have never had so much to We have built many long and successful Audiences are responding choose from.
And theyve responded by partnerships with other channel providers With over 500 channels on the Sky platform, leaving behind the limited opportunities to expand the range of programmes available there are services dedicated to genres as diverse of the past and embracing the richer choice to customers in genres such as documentaries as the arts, history, wildlife and religion.
There that is now available.
Almost half of all UK and childrens programmes.
Sky has invested are more movies, broadcast sooner after their households now choose to subscribe to a directly in some of the best-known channel theatrical release and without interruption.
Thats quite an achievement brands, through a joint-venture portfolio Sport is given the exposure and quality of after just 20 years.
As the number of pay TV that includes channels such as History, coverage it had cried out for over many years.
customers continues to rise steadily, they National Geographic Channel and Nickelodeon.
There are 16 dedicated news channels offering will soon become the majority.
Few would different perspectives on the world.
And plenty One in three homes have believed it possible back in 1989. more besides.
Today, more people than ever are choosing Things have changed within the industry As well as a wider choice of what to watch, Sky for the choice, quality and value that we as well.
Whereas once television was weve consistently pioneered more choice in offer.
Were already the choice of 9.4 million dominated by a few broadcasters, today how to watch.
Innovations like Sky have used customers more than one in three families there is a large and successful multi-channel technology to give customers more control and in the UK and Ireland and we see plenty of sector.
Because our platform is open to all, flexibility, making it easy to fit the TV they love scope for further growth.
our investments mean that every licensed around their busy lives.
Now were leading the As entertainment and communications come broadcaster has the chance to reach an way with HD, bringing cinema-like picture and together, were bringing our challenger spirit audience of millions.
That in turn has created sound quality into the home.
Our expansion new opportunities for production companies into communications services is helping to and other suppliers.
increase choice and bring down prices for millions of people, making Sky the fastestgrowing broadband and home phone provider in the UK.
Freedom to explore More choice With so much choice now available, customers in HD movies need the right tools to help them explore.
Since In October 2008, the launch of Sky Digital in 1998, our Electronic Sky Movies expanded Programme Guide EPG has let people find the choice of movies what they want easily and put parents in control in HD by launching of their familys viewing.
six channels dedicated to genres such as This year, weve built on the success of the drama, comedy and original Sky Guide with the introduction of sci-fi.
Customers a new EPG exclusively for Sky HD customers.
can now enjoy more Now it is even easier to find, watch and record than 600 different the programmes you love, with enhanced movies a month on programme listings and the ability to search nine HD channels.
for a favourite programme by title or genre.
In the future, the Sky HD Guide will be the gateway to a huge choice of programmes for customers to watch on-demand, whenever they want.
10 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 Just three years after launch, 2.2 million customers have joined Sky Broadband and 1.9 million have chosen one of our Sky Talk packages.
As more and more people choose a single, trusted supplier for a variety of services, we see a big opportunity for continued growth.
We want to be the UK and Irelands first choice for entertainment and communications.
Because we never forget that Sky is a choice that people make, we will keep working to earn the loyalty of existing customers and to find more ways to reach out to new customers in the future.
That means well go on investing in the great choice of TV that customers love, innovating to enhance the viewing experience and helping customers to save money when they take more from us.
By continuing to broaden the appeal of our products and services, were well set to encourage more families to join Sky and to choose even more of our products.
News for the HD age To find out more information Twenty years after becoming the first The spectacular images of this about Sky, visit our website: European 24-hour news channel, Sky landmark event generated a www.
com corporate News is again breaking new ground strong response from viewers, with a commitment to launch the first further convincing Sky News that UK news channel in the stunning the time is right to build on its picture quality of high definition.
20-year reputation for innovation and pioneering technology.
Sky News HD will launch in spring 2010 following an upgrade to studios, production facilities and bureaux in the UK and overseas.
It will bring Sky News HD is an together first-class journalism with investment in the future of the sharpest picture quality to bring news, for the audiences of viewers even closer to domestic today and tomorrow.
It is and international news.
a vision that clearly defines The commitment to launch a Skys strengths, passion dedicated HD channel follows the success of Sky News first and restless pursuit to be HD broadcast of Barack Obamas first and to be the best.
inauguration in January 2009, carried on the Sky Arts HD channel.
John Ryley, Head of Sky News B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 11 Annual Review 2009
