Goodwill 2009 2008 m m Carrying value 852 852 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynet Group Limited Easynet, 365 Media and Amstrad.
Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2009, which did not indicate impairment.
The amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes is nil 2008: nil.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2009 2008 m m i Broadcast 673 364 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 iii Easynet Enterprise 30 30 Interactive 302 Multiple units without significant goodwill 7 852 852 Due to the gradual and continual integration of the Interactive business into the Broadcast unit, the future cash ows of the Interactive cash generating unit are no longer separately identiable from those of the Broadcast cash generating unit and the Group has reviewed and realigned its cash generating units accordingly.
Multiple units without significant goodwill have also been moved into the Broadcast unit as part of this review.
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this five year period, based on future industry expectations.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% 2008: 8.3%.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets UK broadband network assets, Easynets UK residential business, 365 Medias content business, BiB and Amstrad.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross DTH subscriber additions, the rate of DTH churn, the average revenue per subscriber, acquisition costs per subscriber and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast business.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting businesses.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five year cash ows were based, include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
iii Easynet Enterprise The Easynet Enterprise unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of Easynets enterprise broadband business in the UK and other European countries.
The key assumptions on which forecast five year cash ows were based include the number of Easynet Enterprise customers, the average revenue per customer and the operating margin generated per customer.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in the enterprise broadband industry.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 85 Annual Report 2009
