qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 121 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Shareholder information Share information voucher will be mailed by the end of November each year, to coincide with the Our sole outstanding class of voting securities is ordinary shares with a nominal final dividend payment.
Full details are available at www.
Overseas dividend payments Our ordinary shares are admitted to the Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 countries and our ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The principal trading worldwide with the opportunity to receive their dividends in their local currency.
market for our ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
The Bank of New For a small at-rate fee, shareholders can have their dividends automatically York Mellon is the depositary of the American Depositary Receipts ADRs, converted from Sterling and paid into their nominated bank account, normally which evidence the ADSs.
within five working days of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact Equiniti Limited on 44 121 415 7567.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Dividend Reinvestment Plan Aspect House The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP which enables Spencer Road shareholders to buy the Companys shares on the London stock market with Lancing their cash dividend.
Further information about the DRIP is available from West Sussex BN99 6DA Equiniti Limited.
The helpline number is 0871 384 2268 from inside the UK and Telephone 0871 384 2091 44 121 415 7173 from overseas.
Overseas 44 121 415 7567 ShareGift ADR depositary Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value makes it BNY Mellon Shareowner Services uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them to charity through PO Box 358516 ShareGift, the independent charity share donation scheme registered charity no.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained from Equiniti Tel: 1 877 353 1154 US toll free Limited or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at www.
There are Tel: 1 201 680 6825 outside USA no implications for capital gains tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com to charity and it is also possible to claim income tax relief.
com shareowner Shareholder fraud Shareholder enquiries Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted every year.
If you All administrative enquiries relating to unregistered shareholders, such as have any reason to believe that you may have been the target of a fraud, or notication of change of address or the loss of a share certicate, should be made attempted fraud in relation to your shareholding, please contact Equiniti Limited to Equiniti Limited, whose address is given above.
ADS holders should contact BNY immediately.
To reduce the risk of fraud happening to you please see our list of Mellon Shareowner Services if they have a query relating to their holding.
preventing shareholder fraud tips on our website at www.
Shares online Share price information The Company provides a range of shareholder information online at The Companys share price can be found on the Companys corporate website at www.
Shareholders can access and view their shareholding www.
com corporate and it also appears in the financial columns of the and update their details at www.
national press under the prex BSkyB.
Electronic shareholder communication ADS holders can access the latest ADS price at www.
com or by visiting The In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Bank of New York Mellons website, www.
Articles of Association, the Company is permitted to use its corporate website as The following tables set forth for the periods indicated the highest and lowest the main way to communicate with shareholders, sending out Annual Reports middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the Daily only to those who have opted to receive a paper copy.
This reduces our impact Official List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest sales on the environment, minimises waste and reduces costs.
It also enables prices of the ADSs as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.
stakeholders to keep updated with developments at Sky as they happen by accessing our website.
i Shares ADSs pence $ Shareholders who have opted to receive shareholder communications in paper High Low High Low form are encouraged to receive these electronically in future by registering at Fiscal year ended 30 June www.
Shareholders can also change their instructions at any 1 33 39 2005 625 465 46 33 2 100 50 time by contacting Equiniti Limited.
Please contact Equiniti Limited for a dividend mandate form.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2008, the Company introduced a new consolidated tax voucher service for those shareholders who have chosen to receive dividends directly into their bank account.
A single consolidated tax British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 121 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 122 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Shareholder information continued Common Stock and 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch i Shares ADSs may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 1.1% of News Corporations pence $ Class A Common Stock and 39.7% of its Class B Common Stock.
High Low High Low There has been no significant change in the percentage ownership held by any Fiscal year ended 30 June major shareholders during the past three years, except for the following: 2008 1 1 7 29 First Quarter 713 635 58 51 2 2 10 50 On 12 May 2006, News Corporation notied us that it had a 38.02% interest in 19 11 Second Quarter 696 588 57 47 100 20 our shares.
On 26 September 2006, News Corporation further notied us that 1 81 Third Quarter 610 506 48 40 20 100 its interest in our shares had increased to 39.03%.
These increases were as a 1 49 33 Fourth Quarter 580 465 45 36 2 50 50 result of the Companys share buy-back programme.
As at 27 September 2006, 2009 the date of the last share repurchase by the Company under the share buy-back 1 1 1 21 First Quarter 502 407 38 28 2 2 25 100 programme, News Corporation had a 39.14% interest in our shares.
The 1 77 51 Second Quarter 483 329 30 20 4 100 100 number of shares held by News Corporation remains unchanged.
3 1 77 Third Quarter 500 405 29 22 4 50 100 3 1 3 Fourth Quarter 489 417 30 24 On 3 March 2009, Capital Research and Management Company notied us that it 4 50 5 had a 5.02% interest in our shares.
On 2 February 2006, Brandes Investment Partners L. P. notied us that it had a i Shares ADSs 3.12% interest in our shares.
pence $ High Low High Low On 6 April 2006, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. notied us that it had a 3.10% interest in our shares.
On 5 March 2007, Janus notified us that it no 30 June 2009 459 429 30 27 4 2 50 100 longer had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
On 7 March 2007, Janus further notied us that its interest in our shares had i Each ADS represents four ordinary shares up until 23 December 2002, each ADS increased to 3.07%.
On 1 July 2008, Janus notied us that it no longer had a represented six ordinary shares.
Prior year ADS gures in the above tables have notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
been restated to reect this change in ratio.
Franklin Resources, Inc. notied us of the following changes in its interest in our Major shareholders shares: The following table sets forth, as of 29 July 2009, the amount and percentage of ordinary shares owned by each shareholder, including our Directors and Ofcers Percentage as a group, known to us to own more than 3% directly and indirectly of our Date notied ownership ordinary shares.
2 February 2006 10.09% 23 May 2006 9.98% Amount Percent 21 June 2006 10.00% Identity of person or group owned of class i News UK Nominees Limited 686,021,700 39.14 ii On 2 March 2007, Franklin Resources, Inc. notied us that under the Financial Capital Research and Management Company 88,008,696 5.02 ii Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR it was no Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 56,867,820 3.12 ii longer subject to a notification obligation as it had been able to claim an The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 ii exemption from the requirement to aggregate its holdings with those of its Legal & General Group plc 53,183,483 3.03 subsidiaries and it holds less than 3% of the Companys issued share capital.
Franklin Resources, Inc. further informed us that Templeton Global Advisors i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Limited Templeton, a wholly owned subsidiary of Franklin Resources Inc.
Memorandum and Articles of Association Alteration of share capital on page 126 to 127. had a 6.04% interest in our shares and that it is subject to a notification ii Indirect holding.
obligation under the DTR on the basis that as a discretionary manager it is an indirect shareholder.
On 14 May 2007, Franklin Resources Inc. further notied At 29 July 2009, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by News UK Nominees us that Templetons interest in our shares had decreased to 5.89%.
On 5 Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which is September 2007, Franklin Resources Inc. notied us that it no longer had a an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation.
As a result of Rupert notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 5%.
Murdochs ability to appoint certain members of the Board of Directors of the Templeton qualies as an investment rm under the Markets in Financial corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than Instruments Directive and therefore, in accordance with the DTR, it does not 1% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 38.4% of its Class B have a disclosure obligation when the voting rights attached to its shareholding Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the in the Company do not exceed 5%.
shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns an additional 1.1% of News Corporations Class A 122 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 123 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% On 4 May 2006, Harris Associates L. P. notied us that it had a 3.03% interest in Chartered Accountants and Independent Registered our shares.
On 30 May 2007, Harris Associates L. P notied us that it no longer Public Accounting Firm had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square On 29 June 2006, Barclays PLC notied us that it had a 3.85% interest in our London shares.
On 22 November 2006, Barclays PLC notied us that it no longer had EC4A 3BZ a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
On 23 November 2006, Barclays notied us that its interest in our shares had Principal bankers increased to 3.05%.
On 4 December 2006, Barclays PLC notied us that it no Royal Bank of Scotland longer had a notiable interest in our shares as its holding had decreased St. Andrews Square below 3%.
Edinburgh EH2 2YB On 26 June 2006, Fidelity notied us that it had a 3.06% interest in our shares.
Solicitors On 17 August 2006, Fidelity notied us that it no longer had a notiable interest Herbert Smith LLP in our shares as its holding had decreased below 3%.
Exchange House Primrose Street Major shareholders have the same voting rights as all other shareholders.
A London EC2A 2HS voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, News Corporation and News UK Nominees Limited Exchange rates which became unconditional on 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees A significant portion of our liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of Limiteds voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the programming acquired from US lm licensors is denominated in US dollars.
For voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on our financial condition circumstances which include the date on which a general offer is made by an and results of operations, see note 23 of the consolidated financial statements independent person as dened in the voting agreement for the ordinary share Derivatives and other financial instruments.
Since any dividends we declare are declared in pounds sterling, exchange rate The ESOP was established to satisfy awards made to participants of the Companys uctuations will affect the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends receivable by employee share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to dividends holders of ADSs.
payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 June 2009, the ESOP had an interest in The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, information concerning 14,136,208 of the Companys ordinary shares.
the noon buying rates provided by the Federal Reserve Board for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
On 27 July 2009, 8,959,147 ADSs were held of record by 19 holders in the US and 24,431 ordinary shares were held of record by 69 US persons.
com details the Companys product offering and Period provides a link to the Companys corporate website, where investor and media i Year ended 30 June end Average High Low information can be accessed.
Company registration number On 24 July 2009, the noon buying rate was 1.6432 per 1.00.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 124 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Shareholder information continued Memorandum and Articles of Association The 2006 Act requires a Director of the Company who is in any way interested in a The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum contract or proposed contract with the Company to declare the nature of his or her and Articles of Association and applicable English Law.
The summary is qualied interest at a meeting of the Directors of the Company.
The denition of interests in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of Association, the includes the interests of spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The 2006 Act Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the 1985 Act and the Companies Act also requires that a Director must avoid a situation where a Director has, or could 2006 of Great Britain the 2006 Act together the Acts.
The 2006 Act is being have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the brought into force and the 1985 Act is being repealed in stages between January Companys interests.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to 2007 and October 2009. authorise such conicts, where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association so permit.
The Companys Articles of Association were amended to permit the Information on where shareholders can inspect copies of the Memorandum and authorisation of such conicts at the 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Articles of Association is provided under Documents on display below.
No person shall be disqualified from being appointed or reappointed as a Objects and purposes Director and no Director shall be requested to vacate that ofce by reason of his Sky is incorporated under the name British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and is attaining the age of seventy or any other age.
registered in England and Wales with registered number 2247735.
The Memorandum of Association of the Company provides that the Companys Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors shall be determined in the aggregate principal object is to carry on the business of direct broadcasting by satellite and by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive Directors is to carry out the other objects more particularly set out in Clause 4 of the determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee is made up of Memorandum of Association of the Company.
Directors There is no requirement of share ownership for a Directors qualication.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, consisting of not fewer than three Directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of Directors appointment and removal the Company.
The quorum for meetings of the Directors is currently three The Directors and the Company by Ordinary Resolution may appoint a person Directors.
The Directors may delegate any of their powers to a committee which who is willing to act as a Director, either to ll a vacancy or as an additional must consist of one or more Directors, and a majority of the members of a Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next AGM and committee shall be Directors.
The quorum at a meeting of any committee shall will put himself forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
At each AGM, there shall retire from ofce by rotation: The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has a material interest other i all Directors of the Company who are subject to retirement by rotation who than by virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence held ofce at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire by of some other material interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote rotation at either of them: and and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: ii such additional number of Directors as shall, when aggregated with the number of Directors retiring under paragraph i above, equal either one i the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to him in respect of third of the number of Directors, in circumstances where the number of money lent to, or obligations incurred by him at the request of, or for the Directors is three or a multiple of three, or in all other circumstances, the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: whole number which is nearest to but does not exceed one-third of the number of Directors the Relevant Proportion provided that: ii the giving of any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which a the provisions of this paragraph ii shall only apply if the number of he himself has assumed responsibility in whole or in part under a Directors retiring under paragraph i above is less than the Relevant guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: Proportion: and iii any proposal concerning an offer of any shares or debentures or other b subject to the provisions of the Acts and to the relevant provisions of securities of or by the Company for subscription, purchase or exchange in these Articles, the Directors to retire under this paragraph ii shall be which offer he is, or is to be, interested as a participant in the underwriting those who have been longest in ofce since their last appointment or or sub-underwriting thereof: reappointment, but as between persons who became or were last reappointed Directors on the same day those to retire shall unless iv any proposal concerning a superannuation fund or retirement benets they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
scheme which has been approved by, or is subject to, and conditional upon approval by the Board of the HMRC for taxation purposes: Borrowing powers The Directors shall restrict the borrowings of the Company and exercise all v any arrangement for the benefit of employees of the Company or any of its powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary subsidiaries including but not limited to, an employees share scheme undertakings so as to secure as regards subsidiary undertakings so far as by which has been approved by, or is subject to and conditional upon approval such exercise they can secure that the aggregate principal amount outstanding by, the Board of the HMRC for taxation purposes and which does not accord of all money borrowed by the Group excluding amounts borrowed by any to any Directors any privilege not accorded to the employees to whom the member of the Group from any other member of the Group, shall not at any arrangement relates: and time, save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, vi any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of insurance for the exceed an amount equal to the higher of i 1.5 billion and ii an amount benefit of Directors or persons who include Directors.
124 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 125 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% equal to four times the aggregate turnover of the Group as shown in the then Further capital calls latest audited consolidated profit and loss accounts of the Group.
The Directors may only make calls upon the members in respect of amounts unpaid on the shares whether in respect of nominal value or premium.
Dividend rights Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare Variation of rights dividends but no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Subject to the Acts, the rights attached to any class of shares may unless Directors.
If, in the opinion of the Directors, the profits of the Company available otherwise provided by the terms of the issue of shares of that class be varied for distribution justify such payments, the Directors may, from time to time, pay with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of interim dividends on the shares of such amounts and on such dates and in the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution respect of such periods as they think fit.
The profits of the Company available passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class for distribution and resolved to be distributed shall be apportioned and paid but not otherwise and may be so varied either whilst the Company is a going proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during any portion of the concern or during, or in contemplation of, a winding-up.
At every such separate period in respect of which the dividend is paid.
general meeting the necessary quorum shall be at least two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out of profits available for distribution the class but so that at any adjourned meeting any holder of shares of the class as specified under the provisions of the Acts.
present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of twelve years from the date of declaration General meetings of such dividend shall be forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
The Directors may call an annual general meeting or a general meeting and give at least such minimum period of notice as is prescribed under the Acts.
The Voting rights notice shall specify the place, the date and the time of the meeting and the The Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights or restrictions general nature of the business to be transacted, and in the case of an annual attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member present in person or general meeting shall specify the meeting as such.
Two persons entitled to vote by proxy shall have one vote, and on a poll every member shall have one vote upon the business to be transacted shall be a quorum.
for every share of which he is a holder.
On a poll votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly Subject to any terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued and to authorised representative.
the provisions of the Articles, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
No or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
If a member appoints more member shall be entitled to vote in respect of any share held by him if any call than one proxy he must specify the number of shares which each proxy is or other sum payable by him to the Company remains unpaid.
entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative If a member or any person appearing to be interested in shares has been duly voting rights.
served with a notice under Section 793 of the 2006 Act and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the Company information thereby required, Details of a voting agreement that the Company entered into with News UK unless the Directors otherwise determine, the member shall not be entitled to Nominees Limited, dated 21 September 2005, is detailed in Alteration of share vote at any general or class meeting of the Company in respect of the shares in capital on page 126 to 127. relation to which the default occurred.
Winding-up Limitations on non-resident or foreign shareholders If the Company commences liquidation, the liquidator may, with the sanction of English law and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company an extraordinary resolution of the Company and any other sanction required by treat those persons who hold shares and are neither UK residents nor nationals the Acts and the Insolvency Act 1986: in the same way as UK residents or nationals.
They are free to own, vote on and transfer any shares they hold.
i divide among the members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or Transfer of shares not and, for that purpose, set such values as he deems fair upon any Any member may transfer all or any of his shares by instrument of transfer in the property to be divided and determine how the division shall be carried out usual common form or in any other form which the Directors may approve.
The between the members: and instrument of transfer of a share shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully-paid shares, by or on behalf of the ii vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the transferee.
benefit of members as the liquidator shall think t, Where any class of shares is for the time being a participating security, title to but no member shall be compelled to accept any share or other assets upon shares of that class which are recorded as being held in uncerticated form, which there is any liability.
may be transferred by the relevant system concerned.
The Directors may in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason refuse to register any Redemption transfer of shares not being fully paid shares.
The Directors may also refuse to None of the shares of the Company has been issued on the basis that it may be register a transfer of shares unless the instrument of transfer: redeemed or is liable to be redeemed at the option of the shareholders or the Company.
The Company is therefore under no obligation to create a sinking fund i is lodged at the transfer ofce accompanied by the relevant share or redemption reserve.
However, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, the certicate s : Company may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 125 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 126 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Shareholder information continued Memorandum and Articles of Association iii cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, by any person and diminish the continued amount of its capital by the amount of the shares so cancelled: or ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iv sub-divide its shares, or any of them, into shares of smaller amount than is iii is in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
xed by the Memorandum of Association subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the Statutes.
The Directors of the Company may refuse to register the transfer of a share in uncerticated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in certicated form Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Company may reduce its share capital in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the redemption reserve, share premium account or other undistributable reserve in requirements under the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 to register any way.
the transfer: and they may refuse to register any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer if it is At the AGM of the Company held on 4 November 2005, shareholders approved their opinion that such transfer would or might i prejudice the Groups right to a special resolution allowing the Company to buy-back up to 92,000,000 hold, be awarded or granted or have renewed or extended, any licence granted ordinary shares in the market, which was approximately 5% of the issued under the Broadcasting Acts, or ii give rise to or cause a variation to be made share capital of the Company at 27 September 2005.
At the same AGM, to, or a revocation or determination of, any such licence by Ofcom.
shareholders approved an ordinary resolution in relation to Rule 9 of the City Code of Takeovers and Mergers the City Code which waived the compulsory If the Directors determine following registration of a transfer of shares: bid obligation that arises for News UK Nominees Limited when the Company repurchases shares under the authority granted by the special resolution i and following consultation with Ofcom that, inter alia, by reason of the detailed above.
Under Rule 9 of the City Code, any person who acquires shares interest of a person in any shares of the Company transferred, Ofcom may which, taken together with the shares already held by him or acquired by vary, revoke, determine or refuse to award, grant, renew or extend a persons acting in concert with him, carry 30% or more of the voting rights in licence granted under the Broadcasting Acts: or a company which is subject to the City Code is normally required to make a general offer to all of the remaining shareholders to acquire their shares.
ii that any person has an interest in the shares of the Company which, inter Similarly, when any person or persons acting in concert already hold 30% or alia, makes the Company a disqualified person under the Broadcasting more but less than 50% of the voting rights in such a company, a general Acts or which contravenes, or would cause a contravention of, any of the offer will normally be required to be made if any further shares are acquired.
restrictions set out in Parts III, IV or V of Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act An offer under Rule 9 must be in cash at the highest price paid within the 1990, as amended by the Communications Act, or any order, direction or preceding 12 months for any shares acquired in the Company by the person notice made pursuant to the Broadcasting Acts or Communications Act or required to make the offer or any person acting in concert with him.
The such other restrictions as may be applied by Ofcom from time to time to holding of News UK Nominees Limited as at the date of the AGM was disqualify certain persons or bodies from having interests in such a licence 686,021,700 ordinary shares, representing 37.19% of the voting rights in the or to restrict the accumulation of interests in relevant services as dened Company.
If the compulsory bid obligation under Rule 9 had not been waived in Schedule 2 to the Broadcasting Act 1990, as amended by the and the Company had repurchased shares under the authority granted by the Communications Act: special resolution detailed above and, at the time, the voting rights attributable to the aggregate holding of News UK Nominees Limited had continued to exceed the Directors shall be entitled to serve written notice a Disposal Notice on 30% of the voting rights of the Company or, if, in the meantime, its holding had the relevant transferee in respect of the shares transferred stating that they have fallen below this level and, as a result had increased to 30% or more of such so determined, specifying their grounds in general terms and calling for the voting rights, News UK Nominees Limited would have been required to make a disposal of such transferred shares as are specified in the Disposal Notice within cash offer for the issued shares of the Company which it did not already own.
21 days of the date of such notice or such longer period as the Directors may The Panel agreed to waive the compulsory bid obligation arising in respect of consider reasonable and which they may extend.
If the Disposal Notice is not a repurchase by the Company of its shares subject to approval of the ordinary complied with to the satisfaction of the Directors, they shall, so far as they are resolution on a poll, subsequently received at the AGM, from shareholders able, dispose of the relevant shares for the best price reasonably obtainable in independent of News UK Nominees Limited.
The waiver in this ordinary all the circumstances.
In addition, a member who has been served with a resolution, which is valid only for so long as the authority granted pursuant to the Disposal Notice shall not, with effect from the expiration of such period as the special resolution detailed above remains in force, applies only in respect of Directors shall specify in such notice not being longer than 30 days from the increases in the percentage interest of News UK Nominees Limited resulting date of service of the notice, be entitled to receive notice of, or to attend or vote from market purchases by the Company of its own shares and not in respect of at, any general meeting of the Company by reason of his holding the shares other increases in its holding.
specified in the Disposal Notice.
In addition, in pursuing a buy-back authority, the Board considered that it was Alteration of share capital appropriate that the Company conditionally entered into a voting agreement The authorised share capital of the Company currently consists of 3,000,000,000 with News UK Nominees Limited, dated 21 September 2005, which would limit ordinary shares of 50p each.
the exercise of its voting rights to 37.19%.
The voting agreement was conditional on the buy-back proposals being approved by shareholders and The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution: therefore became unconditional on 4 November 2005. i increase its share capital by such sum to be divided into shares of such As at 27 September 2006, the Company had purchased, and subsequently amounts as the resolution shall prescribe: cancelled, 92,000,000 ordinary shares of 50p each under this authority for a consideration of 493 million.
The holding of News UK Nominees Limited, ii consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of larger following the exercise of the authority, increased from 37.19% to 39.14% of the amount than its existing shares: 126 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 127 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Companys issued share capital.
The authority expired on 3 November 2006 and to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
However, in the case of a the Directors did not seek its renewal.
partnership, estate or trust, this discussion applies only to the extent such entitys income is taxed to the entity or its partners or beneciaries on a net income basis under US tax law.
This summary is based i upon current UK law Issue of shares and UK HMRC published practice, ii upon the US Internal Revenue Code, Subject to the provisions of the Statutes relating to authority, pre-emption rights Treasury Regulations, cases and Internal Revenue Service rulings, all of which and otherwise and of any resolution of the Company passed in general meeting, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, iii upon the UK-US all unissued shares shall be at the disposal of the Directors and they may allot Income Tax Convention currently in effect the Treaty, and iv in part upon with or without conferring a right to renunciation, grant options over, or representations of The Bank of New York Mellon the Depositary and assumes otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as that each obligation provided for in or otherwise contemplated by the Deposit they think proper.
Agreement dated as of December 2002, among the Company, the Depositary, and the holders from time to time of the ADSs of the Company the Deposit Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Agreement, and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with There are no provisions in the Articles whereby persons acquiring, holding or their respective terms.
disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements The summary of UK tax consequences relates to the material aspects of the UK under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules specically DTR 5 which form taxation position of US Holders and does not address the tax consequences to a part of the Listing Rules which are enforced by the United Kingdoms Financial US Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, resident or ordinarily Services Authority.
resident in the UK for UK tax purposes, ii whose holding of shares or ADSs is effectively connected with a permanent establishment in the UK through which Under Section 793 of the 2006 Act, the Company may by notice in writing such US Holder carries on business activities or, in the case of an individual who require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is performs independent personal services, with a xed base situated therein, or or was during the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to iii that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more associated indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an companies, controls directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the the Company.
The discussion set forth below is only a general summary and 2006 Act.
does not purport to be a technical analysis nor a description of all possible tax consequences.
There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of The summary of US tax consequences may not completely or accurately describe a listed company or when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or tax consequences to all US Holders.
For example, special rules may apply to US rights over shares so as to increase his voting rights beyond that level by a Holders of stock representing 10% or more of the total combined voting power whole percentage point.
Notication in this case should be to the Company, the of the Company, US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK Listing Authority through one of organisations, banks and other financial institutions, persons subject to the its approved regulatory information services no later than twelve noon on the alternative minimum tax, securities broker-dealers, traders in securities that business day following the date of the acquisition.
elect to mark-to-market, and persons holding their shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging or conversion transaction, among others.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree Tax consequences to each US Holder will depend upon the particular facts and company on all parties to a takeover and also to their respective associates circumstances of each such holder.
Accordingly, each person should consult during the course of an offer period.
with his own professional advisor with respect to the tax consequences of his ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs.
This summary does not discuss Exchange controls any tax rules other than UK tax and US federal income tax rules.
The UK and US There are no UK government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation tax authorities and courts are not bound by this summary and may disagree which restrict or which may affect the import or export of capital, including the with its conclusions.
availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by us or the remittance of dividends, interest and other payments to non-resident holders of our US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the shares underlying the ADSs.
securities, except as otherwise described in the Memorandum and Articles of Accordingly, except as noted, the UK and US tax consequences discussed below Association Dividend rights section above, and the Taxation section below.
apply equally to US Holders of ADSs and shares.
Under English law and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, Taxation of distributions persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the UK may freely hold, vote Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax is withheld from dividend payments and transfer ordinary shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
by the Company and generally no UK tax is payable by US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on dividends declared Taxation on the shares.
This section summarises basic UK and US tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of shares and ADSs by a US Holder.
For purposes of US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs who is UK with no other source of UK income and no liability to UK tax are not required i an individual who is a citizen or resident of the US for US income tax purposes, to le a UK income tax return.
ii a corporation organised under the laws of the US or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, iii a domestic partnership, iv an estate the income of For US federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of any distribution made which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or v a by the Company to a US Holder with respect to any shares or ADSs held by the trust if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over the US Holder generally will be includable in the income of the US Holder as dividend administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 127 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 128 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Shareholder information continued income to the extent that such distribution is paid out of the Companys current US passive foreign investment company rules or accumulated earnings and profits as determined under US federal income tax The Company believes that it will not be treated as a passive foreign investment principles subject to the discussion below under US passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for the current taxable company rules.
Dividends will generally constitute foreign source passive year or for future taxable years.
However, an actual determination of PFIC income for foreign tax credit purposes.
The dividend income generally will not status is factual and cannot be made until the close of the applicable taxable be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to corporations.
The Company will be a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: amount of any distribution exceeds the Companys current and accumulated i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income: or earnings and profits as so computed, such excess first will be treated as a tax-free return of capital to the extent of the US Holders tax basis in its shares ii its assets that produce passive income or that are held for the production or ADSs, and thereafter as gain from the sale or exchange of property.
of passive income amount to at least 50% of the value of its total assets on average.
Dividends received by a non-corporate US Holder before 1 January 2011, with respect to such US Holders shares or ADSs that constitute qualied dividend For purposes of this test, the Company will be treated as directly owning its income, will be subject to a reduced rate of US federal taxation provided that proportionate share of the assets, and directly receiving its proportionate share such US Holders shares or ADSs are held by such US holder for more than 60 of the gross income, of each corporation in which the Company owns, directly or days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date indirectly, at least 25% of the value of the shares of such corporation.
and the US holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to Ordinary Shares or ADSs generally will be qualied If the Company were to become a PFIC, the tax applicable to distributions on dividend income.
shares or ADSs and any gains a US Holder recognises on disposition of shares or ADSs may be less favourable to such US Holder.
Accordingly, each person should Any non-US withholding tax with respect to a dividend may be used as a credit consult with his own professional advisor regarding the PFIC rules.
against a US Holders US federal income tax liability, subject to certain conditions and limitations.
Inheritance and gift taxes The amount of any dividend paid in non-US currency will be equal to the US An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the United dollar value of such currency on the date the dividend is included in income, Kingdom-United States Estate and Gift Tax Convention the Estate Tax Treaty regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
A US and who is not a national of the UK for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty will Holder will generally be required to recognise US source ordinary income or generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of the shares or ADSs on loss when such US Holder sells or disposes of non-US currency.
The US Holder the individuals death or on a gift of the shares or ADSs during the individuals will have a tax basis in this non-US currency equal to the US dollar value of lifetime provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability is paid, the currency on the date the dividend is included in the US Holders income.
unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property of a permanent This foreign currency gain or loss will generally be US source ordinary income or establishment in the UK of an enterprise or pertain to a xed base in the UK loss.
of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
Where the ADSs or shares have been placed in trust by a settlor who, at time of settlement, was a US Holder, the ADSs or shares will generally not be subject to Taxation of capital gains UK inheritance tax if at the time when the settlement was made the settlor was US Holders who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the domiciled in the United States and was not a national of the United Kingdom for UK will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of their the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty.
In the exceptional case where the shares ADSs or shares unless they carry on a trade in the UK through a branch, agency are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the or permanent establishment, or a profession or vocation in the UK through a Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for the tax paid in the UK to be credited branch or agency and such ADSs or shares are used, held or acquired for the against tax paid in the US or for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax purposes of the trade, profession or vocation so carried on, or are used or held payable in the UK based on priority rules set out in that Treaty.
for the purposes of the permanent establishment.
An individual US Holder who has ceased to be resident and ordinarily resident in the UK for tax purposes for a period of less than five years, and who disposes of his or her shares or ADSs during that UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax period, may be liable on his or her return to the UK to UK capital gains tax on A transfer for value of the shares will generally unless the consideration for any chargeable gain realised.
The surrender of ADSs in exchange for shares the transfer is certied as being no more than 1,000 be subject to UK ad should not usually give rise to UK corporation tax, or US or UK capital gains tax.
valorem stamp duty, normally at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration given for the transfer, rounded up if necessary to the nearest In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder will recognise capital multiple of 5.
Stamp duty is normally a liability of the purchaser.
gain or loss if such US Holder sells or exchanges shares or ADSs, provided that such shares or ADSs are capital assets in the hands of such US Holder subject An agreement to transfer shares or any interest therein for money or moneys to the discussion below under US passive foreign investment company rules.
worth will normally give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at Any gain or loss will generally be US source gain or loss.
For an individual, any the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for the shares or capital gain will generally be subject to US federal income tax at preferential interest therein with no rounding up or down.
However, if a duly stamped rates if the individual has held the shares or ADSs for more than one year.
instrument of transfer of the shares is executed in pursuance of the agreement and duly produced within six years of the date on which the agreement for sale is made or, if the agreement is conditional, the date on which the condition is satisfied any SDRT paid is generally repayable with interest, and otherwise the SDRT charge is cancelled.
SDRT is in general payable by the purchaser.
The UK Finance Act 1996 amending the UK Finance Act 1986 makes it clear that contrary to previous UK HMRC practice SDRT will be levied in respect of agreements to transfer chargeable securities which include shares even where 128 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1090 p121-133.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 129 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% a person not resident in the UK buys chargeable securities from another nonDocuments on display resident and the transaction is carried out outside the UK.
Certain documents referred to in this Annual Report can be inspected at our registered ofce at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England, during Stamp duty or SDRT charges at the rate of 1.5% in the case of both stamp normal business hours on Monday to Friday public holidays excepted.
duty and SDRT of the amount or value of the consideration, or in some Shareholders attending the Companys AGM will also have the opportunity to circumstances, the value of the shares, may arise on a transfer of shares to the inspect certain documents as detailed in the Notice of AGM from 15 minutes Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary or to certain persons providing a prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A copy of the Notice of AGM can be clearance system or their nominees or agents and will usually be payable by downloaded from the Companys corporate website at www.
the Depositary or such other persons.
It is possible for persons operating clearance services to make an election to HMRC subject to certain conditions, We are subject to the periodic reporting and other informational requirements pursuant to which, instead of the 1.5% stamp duty or SDRT charge applying on of the US Securities Exchange Act.
Under the Exchange Act, we are required to entry as described above, a 0.5% SDRT charge would apply to transfers of file reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of reports and other securities made within the system.
information, when so filed, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty payable SEC at 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
The public may obtain by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary on any subsequent deposit information regarding the SECs Public Reference Room by calling the SEC of shares will be charged by the Depositary to the holder of the ADS or any at 1-202-551-8090.
Our public filings with the SEC are also available on the deposited security represented by the ADS.
website maintained by the SEC at www.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of an ADS or Material modications to the rights of security holders beneficial ownership of an ADS, provided that the ADS and any separate and use of proceeds instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remains at all times The constituent instruments dening the rights of holders of ordinary shares outside the UK, and provided further that any instrument of transfer or written have not been materially modied.
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
An agreement to transfer ADSs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
Pursuant to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, The Bank of New York Mellon, as Depositary, has agreed to notify holders of ADSs of all actions of the Company Any transfer for value of the underlying shares represented by ADSs which will in which shareholders of ordinary shares are entitled to exercise voting rights, exclude a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary or the Depositary to thus facilitating the exercise of voting rights by holders of ADSs.
The address of an ADS holder on a cancellation of the ADSs, may give rise to a liability to UK The Bank of New York Mellon is 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York, 10286. stamp duty.
The amount of UK stamp duty payable is generally calculated at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration on a transfer from the Custodian of the Depositary to a US Holder or registered holder of an ADS, rounded up if necessary to the nearest multiple of 5.
Legislative changes enacted by the UK Finance Act 2008 provide that no UK stamp duty will be payable upon cancellation of the ADSs, nor on a transfer of shares between the Depositary and another person whose business is to issue depositary receipts or a person providing a clearance system.
US information reporting and backup withholding Dividend payments on the shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale, exchange or other disposition of the shares or ADSs may be subject to information reporting to the Internal Revenue Service and possible US backup withholding at a rate of 28%.
US federal backup withholding generally is imposed on specified payments to persons that fail to furnish required information.
Backup withholding will not apply to a holder who furnishes a correct taxpayer identification number or certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication, or who is otherwise exempt from backup withholding.
Any US persons required to establish their exempt status generally must file Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identication Number and Certication.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a US Holders US federal income tax liability.
A US Holder may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service and furnishing any required information.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 129 Annual Report 2009
