Summary financial statement Continued Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2009 2009 2008 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 1,205 997 Interest received 47 43 Taxation paid 178 163 Net cash from operating activities 1,074 877 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 20 11 Net funding to joint ventures and associates 3 6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 261 215 Purchase of intangible assets 139 124 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 19 6 Purchase of subsidiaries net of cash and cash equivalents purchased 72 Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries 3 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 95 170 Net cash used in investing activities 305 579 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 398 383 Repayment of borrowings 434 16 Repayment of obligations under finance leases 1 Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP 1 22 Purchase of own shares for ESOP 40 45 Interest paid 217 165 Dividends paid to shareholders 298 280 Net cash used in financing activities 590 102 Effect of foreign exchange rate movements 1 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 179 197 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 632 435 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 811 632 Note 1: Reconciliation from profit loss for the year to adjusted profit for the year 2009 2008 m m Profit loss for the year 259 127 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 24 3 Recognition of deferred revenue 36 Deferred tax write-off following change in legislation 6 Cost relating to restructuring exercise 7 Legal costs relating to claim against EDS 3 21 Profit on disposal of joint venture 67 Impairment of available-for-sale investment 191 616 Tax effect of above items 4 8 Adjusted profit for the year 451 439 50 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 the effects of laws and government regulation Summary financial statement Forward-looking statements The summary financial statement, summary This Annual Review contains certain forwardupon our activities, our reliance on technology, which is subject to risk, change and development, Directors report and summary report on Directors looking statements within the meaning of the remuneration contained within this document are United States Private Securities Litigation Reform failure of key suppliers, our ability to continue to obtain exclusive rights to movies, sports events only a summary of the information provided in the Act of 1995 with respect to our financial condition, consolidated financial statements and Directors results of operations and business, and our and other programming content, risks inherent strategy, plans and objectives.
These statements in the implementation of large-scale capital report contained within the Annual Report.
The auditors report on the Companys annual include, without limitation, those that express expenditure projects, our ability to continue to forecasts, expectations and projections, such as communicate and market our services effectively, accounts was unqualified.
The information has been prepared in accordance with the accounting forecasts, expectations and projections with and the risks associated with our operation of respect to the potential for growth of free-to-air digital television transmission in the United policies as set out in the Annual Report.
These summaries do not contain sufficient information to and pay television, fixed line telephony, broadband Kingdom UK and Republic of Ireland Ireland.
and bandwidth requirements, advertising growth, allow as full an understanding of the results and Information on the significant risks and state of affairs of the Group as would be allowed DTH customer growth, Multiroom, Sky, uncertainties associated with our business is Sky HD and other services penetration, churn, by the Annual Report, which contains more detail.
described in the Directors report review of DTH and other revenue, profitability and margin A copy of the Annual Report can be obtained, free the business Risk Factors section of our Annual growth, cash flow generation, programming costs, of charge, by writing to the Company Secretary at Report for the year ended 30 June 2009.
All subscriber management and supply chain costs, Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex TW7 5QD or it can forward-looking statements in this document administration costs and other costs, marketing be downloaded from the Companys website at are based on information known to us on the date expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and www.
To elect to receive the hereof.
Except as required by law, we undertake proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
Annual Report for future years, write to Equiniti no obligation publicly to update or revise any Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, These statements and all other forward-looking forward-looking statements, whether as a result West Sussex BN99 6DA.
statements contained in this Annual Review are of new information, future events or otherwise.
not guarantees of future performance and are The summary financial statement has been subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, Use of measures not defined under IFRS prepared in accordance with International This Annual Review contains certain information some of which are beyond our control, are difficult Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted to predict and could cause actual results to differ on the Groups financial position, operating for use in the European Union, the Companies Act results and cash flows that have been derived materially from those expressed or implied or 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
forecast in the forward-looking statements.
These from measures calculated in accordance with IFRS.
factors include, but are not limited to, the fact that This information should not be read in isolation we operate in a highly competitive environment, of the related IFRS measure.
Glossary of terms Term Description Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted profit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit before taking account of exceptional items.
ARPU Average Revenue Per User: the amount spent by the Groups residential subscribers in the quarter, divided by the average number of residential subscribers in the quarter, annualised.
Churn The number of DTH customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstated their subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their original subscription, expressed as an annualised percentage of total average subscribers for the period.
Customer A subscriber to a DTH service.
DTH Direct-to-home: the transmission of satellite services with a reception through a mini-dish.
The Group also retails certain Sky Channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers reference throughout to DTH subscribers include DSL subscribers.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation is calculated as operating profit before depreciation and amortisation or impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.
Effective tax rate The total tax charge as a percentage of profit before exceptional items.
Free cash flow The amount of cash generated by Sky after meeting obligations for interest and tax, and after all capital investment and net cash flows relating to our joint ventures and associates.
Gross margin Revenue less programming expenses as a proportion of revenue.
Gross profit Revenue less programming expense.
Net debt Cash, cash equivalents, short-term deposits, net of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments.
Product Any service chosen by a Sky customer.
These include DTH, Sky, Sky Multiroom, Sky HD, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
Sale A sale is a gross addition of any product.
B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 51 Annual Review 2009
