Pushing boundaries Customer expectations dont stand still, so neither do we.
Ever since we launched 20 years ago, weve kept moving forward and pushing at boundaries.
We love trying to change things for the better.
In fact, challenging the status quo is what put Sky on the map.
Whether its introducing more competition to TV, transforming the way sport and news are broadcast, giving people more of the movies they love or making broadband more affordable weve always looked for ways to do things better for customers.
Weve learned that continuous change and innovation helps us both to keep existing customers satisfied and to reach out to new customers.
Each time we innovate, each time we broaden our product offering, we create a new reason for somebody to reappraise whether this might be the right time to join Sky.
Dancers from English National Ballet are filmed in 3D in the stunning surroundings of The Old Royal Naval 20 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 College, Greenwich.
Pushing boundaries transforming the viewing experience in more The Sky effect Taking TV to the next level than 5.5 million homes more than half of Sky is the perfect example of how innovation Building on this success, were pushing all Sky customers.
Its success has been driven can unlock demand.
boundaries again with Sky HD, our latest above all by the people who use it telling their drive to ensure that our customers enjoy the People have always loved great TV, but it didnt friends and family about the flexibility and best possible viewing experience.
HD takes always fit in with their lives.
Sky has changed convenience of being able to watch what the TV experience to the next level, bringing all that, forever.
Now you can record a whole you want, when you want.
entertainment to life with vibrant colour and series at the touch of a button.
Play back a superb quality sound.
The sheer scale of the Sky effect is programme while recording two others at extraordinary.
At current levels of take-up, it Sky made an early commitment to HD at a time the same time.
Go online or use your mobile represents around eight billion instances of when many people questioned whether there phone to set up a recording from anywhere timeshifting a year.
And if the Sky planner was a need for it, or whether consumers would in the world.
was a television channel in its own right, show any interest.
As awareness and enthusiasm The crucial factor is its absolute simplicity.
it would be the most popular channel in quickly gather pace, it is now clear to see that Sky exists to make life easier, not harder, Sky homes.
our early start has positioned us well to lead just like all technology should.
And because Britain and Ireland into the HD age.
Sky Anytime is the latest enhancement to the it allows customers to get more out of their Sky experience, automatically recording the With Sky HD, we have created the best HD Sky subscription, it helps us to achieve high pick of the weeks TV and storing it ready to service by far.
Eighteen months ago we had rates of satisfaction and loyalty.
It is already used in over one million 13 HD channels.
Now we have 33 channels So eight years after launch, Sky is growing homes each week, and its selection of topspanning sport, movies, documentaries, faster than ever.
At the last count, it is quality movies is proving particularly popular.
entertainment, the arts and much more.
Sky Player Sky Player, our online TV service, offers a range of leading channels to PC and Mac.
Its a great way for us to give our existing satellite customers more flexibility about where and when they watch their TV.
It also helps us make our content more widely available.
We know that some people prefer to watch TV online and we want to be able to cater to their needs.
So, since December 2008, customers have been able to subscribe directly Sky on the move to Sky Player, without the need for a satellite Our new applications for the Apple iPhone help dish or even a TV set.
customers to get the most out of Sky wherever they From autumn 2009, we will go one step are.
With our Remote Record application, customers further by offering access to Sky Player through can browse our programme listings and set a Sky Microsofts Xbox LIVE enabled Xbox 360 console, recording for their favourite show even when they a UK first.
For existing Sky customers who own are away from home.
And, as well as keeping up an Xbox, it means that their games console with the latest news, customers can use the Sky will become another way to enjoy their News iPhone app to send their own stories and favourite programmes.
pictures directly to Sky News as they happen.
22 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 Whether youre a fan of Hollywood movies, Test cricket, dramatic documentaries or operatic arias, you can enjoy your favourite programmes in stunning HD.
And the range of programmes in HD will only grow from here.
This year, we decided to make HD accessible to even more people.
With a new everyday low price of 49 for a Sky HD box, around 1.3 million customers were enjoying Sky HD by the end of June 2009.
Whats more, around 25% of those who had signed up in the previous six months were entirely new to Sky.
As awareness grows still further, HD is shaping up to be the latest in a long line of new reasons for people to reconsider what Sky has to offer.
Well encourage that process of reappraisal by continually making Sky HD even better.
That means adding more HD channels, eventually taking the total to 50 and beyond.
It means Evening Standard using broadband connectivity to expand our Sky Anytime service, opening up a huge choice From HD to 3D of on-demand content for customers to watch While HD is fast emerging as a Then, to really test our capabilities, whenever they want.
And it means using the new standard for TV, were already we successfully delivered the UKs working hard on the next thing first ever live 3D broadcast to a Sky HD box as a platform for innovation, to excite our customers.
Our domestic TV, with a one-off Keane exploring the potential for exciting new research and development is all gig live from Abbey Road studios.
about anticipating future trends, The next step will be the commercial including the potential to turn HD launch of a 3D channel in 2010.
To find out more information into 3D TV.
And about Sky, visit our website: Tests have proven that it is possible well make sure our customers www.
com corporate to enjoy a seeing is believing 3D are among the first to enjoy it.
experience in the home by using our existing satellite platform and Sky HD boxes.
We began by The 3D TV experience is, filming a selection of sport and without doubt, the future entertainment content in 3D and demonstrating playback from a of TV.
Evening Standard B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 23 Annual Review 2009
