Seeing the bigger picture Weve always been about the small screen, but we also see the bigger picture.
We know how important it is to be a responsible business if we want to achieve sustainable success over the long term.
Trust is not a new phenomenon.
It has always been a crucial building block for relationships, and thats as true for a companys relationship with its customers as for any other.
But the issue of trust in business is growing in importance.
Customers have always expected companies to deliver great products, service and value and to behave in a responsible way.
Increasingly, they also expect them to make a positive contribution to society and local communities, and take action on the issues that they care about.
At Sky, we understand this and we want to respond.
We strive always to do the right thing in our day-to-day business.
And we always try to behave fairly towards our customers, to support our employees development and to forge positive partnerships with suppliers.
Over and above this, we focus on three areas that matter to our customers and where we believe Sky can make a real and positive contribution.
We help to create a healthy environment by playing our part to tackle climate change and inspiring customers to do the same.
We increase participation in sport through our partnerships with leading sports bodies.
And we bring more of the arts to more people on-screen, on stage and even in the streets.
More than 8,000 people joined in to complete an artwork by doodle artist Jon Burgerman at the 24 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 Hay Festival in 2008.
Seeing the bigger picture programming across nine channels, a 24-hour initiative has used the power of sport to inspire Creating a healthy environment red button service for customers to donate to and motivate 17,000 young people.
This year, Weve been playing our part to tackle climate our environment partner, giving away over we opened up the programme to all secondary change for several years now.
In the last 30,000 Sky energy monitors, and helping our schools across the UK so even more young four years alone, at a time when our business staff make their homes more energy efficient.
has grown considerably, weve reduced our carbon emissions by 16% across the Group.
And, with our charity partner, Global Action In cricket, the ECBs Coach Education Now were building Europes most sustainable Plan, we work to create ways to help the Programme has trained 13,000 cricket coaches broadcasting facility and working with production wider community to join in.
This year, over with Skys support, more than double the companies to reduce the environmental impact 1,300 primary schools got involved in our original target.
In fact, there are now over of our programming.
Appetite for Action initiative, which aims 60 grassroots coaches for every professional This year, weve completed the roll-out of the to inform and inspire over one million pupils cricketer in England and Wales.
In October worlds first auto-standby feature for set-top to reduce food waste.
2008, we extended our commitment to this boxes to every single active Sky box.
We estimate programme for a further two years.
Increasing participation in sport this will save around 20 million on customers Whether its on the screen or at the grassroots, As well as increasing the quantity, quality and energy bills and 90,000 tonnes of CO each 2 were proud to support British sport at all levels.
depth of coverage on TV, Skys investment in year thats almost twice Skys entire carbon sport helps to provide funding from the elite footprint.
In April 2009, we were awarded the Bringing the arts to more people to the grass roots, delivering much-needed Carbon Trust standard for companies taking real Our third area of focus is opening up the action to reduce their impact on climate change.
We go even further arts to more people.
We do this first through and work with sports bodies to encourage We can go even further by inspiring and helping our Sky Arts channels, which this year doubled even more people to get active.
our customers to make changes too, through their output to 36 hours of arts programming our on-screen content, online resources and For the past six years, weve worked closely a day.
But its not just about what we put on customer magazine.
In April, for example, with the Youth Sport Trust to develop the Sky the small screen.
we celebrated Earth Day with environmental Sports Living for Sport programme.
So far, the Sky Arts at the Hay Festival In our third year as broadcast sponsor of the UKs pre-eminent literary festival, we broadcast 36 hours of programmes from Hay-on-Wye.
Sky Arts brought sessions from speakers such as Nicholas Stern and Stephen Fry into customers living rooms, together with our own programmes Hay on Sky and What the Dickens?
Sustainable broadcasting Were investing in the future by developing Europes most sustainable broadcast facility at our campus in west London.
A new home for 3,000 our sports channels, the building will use natural Number of people joining us for filming ventilation to cut its energy usage and further reduce its carbon footprint through onsite in the Sky Arts studio at the Hay Festival renewable energy generation.
Salvaged and recycled construction materials are being used wherever possible, and rainwater will be harvested to flush toilets and irrigate green spaces.
26 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 Weve been one of Britains largest corporate supporters of the arts for some time, through our sponsorships of the Hay Festival, English National Ballet and English National Opera, a partnership which has seen us invest more than 5 million over six years.
To broaden that support even further, this year we committed to extend our Sky Arts At initiative to reach even more arts organisations across the UK.
Working with organisations as diverse as the Mostly Mozart Festival, Dance Umbrella and the Royal National Theatre, we create behind-the-scenes documentaries to bring their work to millions of people online and on TV.
Also this year, we formed a partnership with Artichoke, the UKs leading public arts company, to bring more art to the streets.
Our first project together is Antony Gormleys One and Other, in which Trafalgar Squares Fourth Plinth plays host to a different individual every hour of every day Getting Britain cycling for 100 days.
Sky Arts is streaming the event Last summer, we joined up with In 2009, were holding mass-participation live online across the entire 100 days, as well British Cycling in a new five-year, city rides in Manchester, Glasgow, as creating a weekly TV highlights programme.
multi-million pound partnership Leicester and London, and over 400 to support cycling in Britain.
local community-led rides in the At the elite level, were supporting surrounding regions.
Were also all forms of the competitive sport, supporting schools through British from track and road racing to BMX Cyclings established Go Ride initiative.
com skyride to inspire the nation by creating a to find out more.
new pro-cycling team with the aim of winning the Tour fide France within five years.
Our partnership with We also set ourselves the goal of Sky is a once in a lifetime getting one million more people cycling regularly for fun and fitness opportunity to transform through our new Skyride programme.
Ian Drake, Chief Executive of British Cycling To find out more, go online to read our Bigger Picture Review: www.
com thebiggerpicture B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27 Annual Review 2009
