Making talent shine The people at Sky are critical to our ability to meet the needs of customers and achieve our goals as a business.
We aim to create a culture of opportunity that encourages talented people to join us and helps them to aim high and give their best.
The capability within our organisation is developing all the time.
As new opportunities emerge, the range of things we do as a business changes dramatically, as with the launch of products such as Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
Our business will continue to change in the future and, each time we rise to a new challenge, we will learn and grow stronger.
In a competitive and fast-changing marketplace, we see this evolving capability as a source of advantage and an important foundation for sustainable success.
Because we know that our people are the key to our future success, making Sky a great place to work is one of our highest priorities.
That means attracting the best people to work with us, supporting their development, and rewarding and recognising great performance.
We constantly challenge ourselves to do better for our customers: better products, better content, better service and better value.
To help make that happen, we aim to foster a culture of collaboration and innovation where our people can create the future of Sky and realise their own potential.
Sky News presenter Jeremy Thompson prepares to broadcast live outside the Houses 28 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 of Parliament, London.
Making talent shine To bring new talent into our business, To celebrate our 20th anniversary this year, Talent development we offer graduate training schemes in areas all permanent employees received an award Because we value the talent of all our 16,000 such as Finance, Technology and Marketing.
of 100 free shares to vest in 2012, giving them people, we have invested in making training Competition for places is intense, with over a stake in the future success of the business.
and development accessible to everyone.
2,500 applications for the 82 places on our In further recognition of the role that our people Since September 2008, the Sky Development 2009 intake.
In our customer contact centres, have played in the Sky story, we launched Studio has offered 24 7 online access to a wide our award-winning modern apprentice long-service awards for employees who have range of learning resources for all our people, scheme gives 16- and 17-year-olds a great been with us for more than 10 years.
Around including courses, books, downloads and DVDs.
opportunity to learn in an exciting business, 2,000 people have benefited so far, and more There have been over 50,000 visits to the site while working towards a nationally will follow in years to come.
since launch and around 10,000 e-learning recognised qualification in customer courses have been downloaded so far.
This year weve launched a across the board, there are opportunities for We encourage our people to join in and play similar scheme for field engineers.
our staff to refresh their skills and support an active part in our efforts to make a positive their development.
Recognising success contribution to the communities in which we We know that many of the future leaders of Were big believers in recognising the live and work.
As part of our commitment to our business are already at Sky.
To give them great work that our people do.
As part of help create a healthy environment, we work the right support, weve created a range of a comprehensive package, Sky people are with a variety of partners to provide volunteering management programmes designed for people properly rewarded with a pension plan, life opportunities for teams and individuals.
at all levels of the business, for example, the Sky cover and a healthcare scheme.
To make sure Since 2006, our Broadcast Operations team Leadership Certificate and Diploma, accredited they can enjoy the same experience as our has worked with local schools in Hounslow, by the Chartered Management Institute, help customers, all our people get free Sky, near our campus in west London, to address managers to develop their skills in areas such Sky Broadband and Sky Talk.
environmental awareness in young people.
as team building and change management.
Sky Leadership Development Programme Culture Connection We are constantly looking for future leaders Our Culture Connection among our people and we make sure we programme gives Sky provide the right support to assist their people the opportunity development.
With an intake of 50 participants to get involved in the arts, this year, the Sky Leadership Development from singing in the Sky Programme is designed to provide high choir to workshops with potential employees with a superb opportunity English National Ballet.
to gain a broader understanding of our business and to learn from industry leaders and thinkers from outside Sky.
Topics addressed during the 12-month programme include strategy, innovation, customer focus and talent development.
On completing the programme, participants will have gained not only a deeper insight into our business and leadership practice, but a strong and enduring network of colleagues right across Sky.
30 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 As well as providing a fun and rewarding experience for our people, the partnership, known as Project Green Sky, has delivered real benefits to the community.
Last year, it was awarded the Community Partner Award by Hounslow Education Business Partnership, which said, The project makes a direct contribution to key aspects of schools agendas Sky have been outstanding.
As well as managing our business impact on the environment, we provide opportunities for our people to do the same.
The EcoTeams programme run by our charity partner, Global Action Plan, encourages colleagues to get together to share tips and support each other to go green at work and at home.
We also offer a range of incentives to help staff adopt a lowcarbon lifestyle, from tax-free bike loans to cash-back on hybrid cars.
They can also earn credits for positive actions like cycling to work, which can then be redeemed for rewards.
Team Sky We believe strongly in the power of our people Because great work deserves to joining in.
Its all about small actions that add be celebrated, our annual Team Sky awards seek out and reward the up to big benefits, just like working with 2,000 people and teams who believe in customers and suppliers to inspire action better, whatever they are doing.
Almost 2,000 people were nominated beyond our business.
In July 2009, Business for a Team Sky award in 2008 Now in its fourth year, Team Sky in the Community recognised our contribution allows all of our employees to to the community by awarding Sky its nominate colleagues for their Community Mark Award.
achievements, whether thats for giving customers great service, To find out more information outstanding creativity or going about Sky, visit our website: the extra mile in any other way.
com corporate This year, a record total of almost 2,000 individuals and 350 teams received nominations.
All received recognition for their work and around 400 people received prizes ranging from an HD camcorder to an international holiday.
B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 31 Annual Review 2009
