qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 74 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements d Goodwill Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the 1.
Accounting policies purchase method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair value company incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identiable assets, Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial statements include the Company liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
Where a business combination and its subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and occurs in several stages, as a result of successive share purchases, the goodwill jointly-controlled entities.
associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups UK European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss Board IASB.
on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not reinstated and is not included in determining b Basis of preparation any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost basis, except Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least for the remeasurement to fair value of financial instruments as described in the annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating accounting policies below.
unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment identied is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week scal year ending on the Sunday nearest to The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is 30 June in each year.
In scal year 2009, this date was 28 June 2009, this being a included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
52 week year scal year 2008: 29 June 2008, 52 week year: scal year 2007: Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June.
The Group has classied e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be realised in, or i. Intangible assets intended for sale or consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure relating to c Basis of consolidation the application of research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially i.
Subsidiaries improved products for sale or use within the business is recognised as an Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the intangible asset from the point at which it is probable that the Group has the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and intention and ability to generate future economic benets from the development operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other development Company from the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through preparing the consolidated financial statements.
a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are ii.
Associates and joint ventures classied as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and Associates are entities where the Group has significant inuence, but not control fair value less costs to sell.
or joint control, over the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are jointly controlled by the Group under a Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, contractual agreement with another party or parties.
and is charged to the income statement through operating expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets estimated useful life, principally These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total being a period between three and ten years, unless the asset life is judged to be recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures using the equity indefinite.
If the useful life is indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, method, from the date that significant inuence or joint control commences to no amortisation is charged and an impairment test is carried out at least the date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment in line with possible exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy j below.
When the Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest ii.
Property, plant and equipment in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such impairment losses, see accounting policy j, other than those items that are losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or classied as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of PPE comprises major components venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be equity having different useful economic lives, the components are accounted for as accounted and, instead, is classied as held for sale and stated at the lower of separate items of PPE.
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
74 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1070 p69-96.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 75 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE see accounting policy o. relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
Land, and assets When a cash ow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exercised, or that are not yet available for use, are not depreciated.
Principal useful economic if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, any lives used for this purpose are: cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction is Freehold buildings 25 years ultimately recognised in the income statement, provided that the underlying Equipment, furniture and xtures 3 to 15 years transaction is still expected to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the useful expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the hedging leasehold improvements economic life of the asset reserve is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future changes in the fair value of the cash ow hedging instruments are immediately Borrowing costs are recognised in finance costs in the period in which they are recognised in the income statement.
incurred regardless of how the borrowings have been applied.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as dened The Group uses a number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recognised exposure to uctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
immediately in the income statement.
The carrying values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in the fair value of the hedged risks, Derivatives are held at fair value from the date that a derivative contract is with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the income statement, entered into.
Fair value is dened as the amount for which an asset could be offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of the estimated with reference to the contracted value and the appropriate market principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item, value prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Certain derivatives held by the Group including the likelihood of default by the derivative counterparty.
The which relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, which retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value hedges is calculated meet qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the Measurement, are designated as cash ow hedges or fair value hedges, and fair value of the hedged item being compared to movements in the fair value of are subject to cash ow hedge accounting or fair value hedge accounting the hedging instrument.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge respectively.
In certain circumstances, only the intrinsic value of a derivative has effectiveness and any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is been designated as a cash ow hedge, with the remaining fair value not deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
designated as a cash ow hedge.
Certain other derivatives held by the Group do Embedded derivatives not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes as Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the fair values of treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not these derivatives are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income Derivatives that qualify for cash ow hedge accounting statement.
Embedded derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash ow hedges from the inception of the host contract.
Changes in fair value are recognised cash ow hedging instruments are initially recognised in the hedging within the income statement during the period in which they arise.
In circumstances where the derivative used is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option are designated under the cash ow g Inventories hedging relationship, with all other movements being recorded immediately in i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are Programme inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value subsequently recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the NRV, including, where applicable, estimated subscriber escalation payments, related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
and net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash ow hedges is assessed Programming rights are included as inventories when the legally enforceable through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the licence period commences and all of the following conditions have been met: underlying hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness of the Groups cash ow a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash ows programme material has been accepted by the Group in accordance with the of hedging instruments being compared to the expected cash ows of the hedged conditions of the rights, and c the programme is available for its first showing.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is Prior to being included in inventories, the programming rights are classied as expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective in the television programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in future periods.
The on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is commitments see note 27.
Payments made upon receipt of commissioned and calculated using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair values of the acquired programming, but in advance of the legal right to broadcast the hedging instruments being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that programmes, are treated as prepayments.
would result in the designated cash ow hedge achieving perfect hedge effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the operating hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is deemed to expense line of the income statement, primarily as described below: be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 75 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1070 p69-96.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 76 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements fair value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
continued Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets unless 1.
Accounting policies continued the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on the first than continuing use, in which case they are included within current assets.
On broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons or competitions, such disposal, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the rights are principally recognised on a straight-line basis across the seasons or consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been competitions.
recognised directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement on first broadcast.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income statement based determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is applicable, are on the expected value of each planned broadcast.
measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and other receivables are Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
An allowance over the period of broadcast rights.
account is maintained to reduce the carrying value of trade and other Where programme rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, and no gain receivables for impairment losses identied from objective evidence, with is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the programming will movements in the allowance account, either from increased impairment losses not be broadcast for any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is or reversals of impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
Any reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions in iii.
Cash and cash equivalents operating expense.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits ii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months or less Set-top boxes including Sky boxes and Sky HD boxes, routers and related from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and equipment are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reects which form an integral part of the Groups cash management are also included the value that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related as a component of cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised through the iv.
Short-term deposits operating expense line of the income statement.
Any subsidy is expensed on This includes short-term deposits and commercial paper which have maturity enablement, which is the process of activating the viewing card during dates of more than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially installation, so as to enable a viewer to view encrypted broadcast services, and recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income effectively represents the completion of the installation process for new statement less any allowance for impairment losses.
The amount recognised in the income statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
v. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are iii.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at the lower payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the original invoice of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and goods held for amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
resale is recognised through the operating expense line of the income statement on a first in first out FIFO basis.
Borrowings Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
h Financial assets and liabilities Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement or redemption Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value plus any and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, the Group statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying assesses whether there is any objective evidence that any financial asset is amount of the underlying instrument to which they relate, to the extent that impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from the balance i Transponder rental prepayments sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash ows expire or the Group Payments made in respect of future satellite broadcast capacity have been transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset.
Financial recorded as prepaid transponder costs.
These payments are recognised in the liabilities are derecognised from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement.
specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
i. Available-for-sale investments j Impairment Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of time are At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, classied as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair value, where the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding inventories this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value recognised directly see accounting policy g, non-current assets classied as held for sale, financial in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the fair value cannot be reliably assets see accounting policy h and deferred taxation see accounting policy p measured, the investment is carried at cost.
to determine whether there is any indication that any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Any impairment losses in equity investments classied as available-for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are not reversible An impairment, other than an impairment of an investment in a joint venture or through the income statement, and are determined with reference to the closing associate, is recognised in the income statement whenever the carrying amount market share price at the balance sheet date.
Any subsequent increase in the of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An 76 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1070 p69-96.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 77 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% impairment of an investment in a joint venture or associate is recognised within Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or the share of profit from joint ventures and associates.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a is the greater of net selling price, dened as the fair value less costs to sell, and subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor specic or third current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specic to the party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an elements is limited to the cash received.
individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in n Employee benets respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and nonamount of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying monetary benets for current employees are recognised in the income amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
statement as the employees services are rendered.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit shall be The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through dened contribution reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the schemes.
The amount charged to the income statement in the year represents recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and is only the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in exchange for reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the employee services rendered in that year.
The assets of the schemes are held carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or independently of the Group.
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
Termination benets are recognised as a liability when, and only when, the Group has a demonstrable commitment to terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before the normal retirement date or as the k Provisions result of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benets as a result of The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments to past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts recognised certain employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an represent the Groups best estimate of the transfer of benets that will be expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in equity in the required to settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are case of equity-settled payments, and liabilities in the case of cash-settled discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax awards.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of market rate adjusted for risks specic to the liability.
grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
Cash-settled share-based payments are l ESOP reserve measured at their fair value as at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own equity recognised over the period during which employees become unconditionally shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable transaction costs, is entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction in shareholders equity in the which will be forfeited, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to consolidated financial statements.
vesting or due to non-market based performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the m Revenue recognition award is adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between Group model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is companies, represents the gross inow of economic benefit from Skys adjusted to reect the actual number of awards that vest, except where operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue are recognised as forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based performance measures.
follows: In accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for Sky TV, Sky International Financial Reporting Standards, the recognition and measurement Broadband and Sky Talk services, is recognised as the goods or services are principles in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, have only been applied to options and provided, net of any discount given.
Pay-per-view revenue is recognised awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005. when the event or movie is viewed.
Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to the cable o Leases retailers and is based on the number of subscribers taking the Sky Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer channels, as reported to the Group by the cable retailers, and the substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset to the applicable rate card or contract.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts as an agent on When the Group is lessor, sublease income from operating leases is recognised behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net commission basis.
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Sky Bet revenue is recognised in accordance with IAS 39.
Sky Bet revenue represents income in the period for betting and gaming activities, dened When the Group is lessee, assets held under finance leases are recognised as as amounts staked by customers less winnings paid out.
assets of the Group at their fair value on the date of acquisition, or, if lower, at Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the income the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to statement when the goods and services are delivered.
the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Active, Sky Card, Sky payments are apportioned between finance charges and reductions of the lease Mobile TV, technical platform services, Easynet Enterprise and Amstrad.
obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance Other revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant of the liability.
goods or service are provided.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 77 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1070 p69-96.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 78 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements s Foreign currency translation The Groups functional currency and presentational currency is pounds sterling.
continued Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in pounds sterling at the applicable monthly exchange rates.
Accounting policies continued and commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income are reported at the rates of exchange at that date.
Non-monetary assets and statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Benets received liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to pounds sterling at and receivable as incentives to enter into operating leases are recorded on a the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and straight line basis over the lease term.
losses from the retranslation of assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets p Taxation, including deferred taxation and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at balance sheet date.
exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet liability differences arising are classied as equity and transferred to other reserves.
method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used t Reportable segments in the computation of taxable profit.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill A reportable segment, as dened by IAS 14 Segment Reporting, is a and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting distinguishable business or geographical component of the Group, that provides profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are products or services, that are subject to risks and rewards that are different recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in from those of other segments.
The Group considers its primary reporting format subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the to be business segments.
The Group considers that it has only one reportable Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is segment, being the Broadcast segment.
As the revenue, results, assets and cash probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
ows of the Broadcast segment are substantially the same as those of the The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of consolidated Group, no separate analysis has been provided.
realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
u Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet to existing standards that are not yet effective date and adjusted to reect an amount that is probable to be realised based on The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that interpretations to existing standards, which have been published but are only are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is effective for our accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 or later realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
These new standards are listed below: charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 included within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non Cash Assets to Owners effective 1 July is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 2009 liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets to Customers effective 1 July 2009 authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on Revision to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements effective 1 a net basis.
January 2009 Amendments to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs effective 1 January 2009 q Distributions to equity shareholders Revision to IFRS 3 Business Combinations effective 1 July 2009 Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year in which Revision to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements they are declared.
effective 1 July 2009 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment effective 1 January 2009 The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation share Amendment to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the nominal cost of Operations effective 1 July 2009 shares repurchased is deducted from share capital and a matching credit is Amendments to IAS 28 Investment in Associates effective 1 January recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
2009 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation effective r Earnings per share 1 January 2009 Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year, divided Amendments to IAS 38 Intangible Assets effective 1 January 2009 by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Measurement effective 1 January 2009 Group and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations in future periods.
Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the v Critical accounting policies and the use of judgment year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
An the Group and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee accounting policy is considered to be critical if its selection or application materially share awards, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting affects the Groups financial position or results.
The Directors are required to use from share options where the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
their judgment in order to select and apply the Groups critical accounting policies.
78 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1070 p69-96.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 79 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Below is a summary of the Groups critical accounting policies and details of the the carrying amount can be supported by the net present value of future key areas of judgment that are exercised in their application.
cash ows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This forecast involves cash ow projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
i Revenue see note 2 Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial capitalisation Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be recognised requires judgment.
This requires a determination of whether the assets will requires judgment.
This may involve estimating the fair value of consideration result in future benets to the Group.
In particular, internally generated before it is received.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service intangible assets must be assessed during the development phase to and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from identify whether the Group has the ability and intention to complete the the arrangement is allocated to each element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each individual element is determined using vendor specic v Available-for-sale investments see note 16 or third party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements is limited to the cash received.
The key areas of judgment in respect of available-for-sale investments are Judgment is also required in evaluating the likelihood of collection of the assessment of whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has customer debt after revenue has been recognised.
This evaluation requires occurred after initial recognition of an available-for-sale investment, and estimates to be made, including the level of provision to be made for whether such a loss event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts with uncertain recovery proles.
Provisions are based on estimated future cash ows of the investment.
At each balance sheet date, historical trends in the percentage of debts which are not recovered, or on management considers whether there is objective evidence that a loss more detailed reviews of individually significant balances.
event has occurred and whether it has had an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the available-for-sale investment.
If a loss event has ii Taxation see note 9 occurred, management would then consider whether an impairment loss The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax has occurred and the quantum of that loss.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a As at 30 June 2009, the Groups available-for-sale investments included a degree of estimation and judgment in respect of certain items whose tax material investment in ITV plc ITV which has been impaired in the year.
treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with The factors management considered in determining whether an the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
impairment loss in ITV had occurred included observable data about the Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make judgments and estimated future cash ows of ITV based on ITVs publicly available estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
Amounts accrued are financial reporting and announcements, publicly available information based on managements interpretation of country-specic tax law and the from financial commentators about ITV and the market in which it likelihood of settlement.
Tax benets are not recognised unless the tax operates, the historical performance of ITVs share price, and the positions are probable of being sustained.
Once considered to be probable, regulatory environment affecting ITV and the Group.
The ITV impairment management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a losses accounted for have been determined with reference to ITVs closing provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis equity share price at 27 March 2009, the last trading day of the Groups of the likely resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
All subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgment, available-for-sale reserve see accounting policy j. as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution could differ from the vi Deferred tax see note 17 provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an The key area of judgment in respect of deferred tax accounting is the adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact on assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is iii Goodwill see note 12 probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which Judgment is required in determining the fair value of identiable assets, any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
liabilities and contingent assets assumed in a business combination.
Calculating the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and vii Programming inventory see note 18 assumptions, including expectations about future cash ows, discount rates The key area of accounting for programming inventory requiring judgment and the lives of assets following purchase.
is the assessment of the appropriate prole over which to recognise amortisation in the income statement.
This assessment requires the Group Judgment is also required in evaluating whether any impairment loss has arisen against the carrying amount of goodwill.
This may require to form an expectation of the number of times a programme will be calculation of the recoverable amount of cash generating units to which the broadcast and the value associated with each broadcast.
Such a calculation may involve estimates of the net For general entertainment programming, in order to perform this present value of future forecast cash ows and selecting an appropriate assessment of amortisation prole, we consider the expected number of discount rate.
Alternatively, it may involve a calculation of the fair value viewers a programme is likely to achieve on repeat broadcast, the less costs to sell of the applicable cash generating unit.
alternative programming available to the programming scheduler, the potential marketing benets relating to the scheduling of certain iv Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment programmes and the Groups assessment of its competitors scheduling see notes 13 and 14 intentions when determining the amount of programme expense to The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets requires recognise for each broadcast.
Acquired movie rights are amortised on a judgment.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged to the income statement straight-line basis over the period of the transmission rights.
Where based on the useful economic life selected.
This assessment requires contracts for sports rights provide for multiple seasons or competitions, they estimation of the period over which the Group will benefit from the assets.
are amortised on a straight-line basis across the season or competition as Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any our estimate of the benets received from these rights is determined to be indication of impairment also requires judgment.
If an indication of most appropriately aligned with a straight-line amortisation prole.
impairment is identied, further judgment is required to assess whether British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 79 Annual Report 2009
