qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:18 Page 74 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Consolidated financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements d Goodwill Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the 1.
Accounting policies purchase method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a limited liability recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair value company incorporated in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identiable assets, Kingdom UK.
The consolidated financial statements include the Company liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
Where a business combination and its subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and occurs in several stages, as a result of successive share purchases, the goodwill jointly-controlled entities.
associated with each stage is calculated using fair value information at the date of each additional share purchase.
a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition Date, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under the Groups UK European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP accounting policies on International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss Board IASB.
on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which is not reinstated and is not included in determining b Basis of preparation any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost basis, except Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least for the remeasurement to fair value of financial instruments as described in the annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating accounting policies below.
unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment identied is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week scal year ending on the Sunday nearest to The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is 30 June in each year.
In scal year 2009, this date was 28 June 2009, this being a included in the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
52 week year scal year 2008: 29 June 2008, 52 week year: scal year 2007: Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy j below.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June.
The Group has classied e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE assets and liabilities as current when they are expected to be realised in, or i. Intangible assets intended for sale or consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure relating to c Basis of consolidation the application of research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially i.
Subsidiaries improved products for sale or use within the business is recognised as an Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the intangible asset from the point at which it is probable that the Group has the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and intention and ability to generate future economic benets from the development operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other development Company from the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately or through preparing the consolidated financial statements.
a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are ii.
Associates and joint ventures classied as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and Associates are entities where the Group has significant inuence, but not control fair value less costs to sell.
or joint control, over the financial and operating policies of the entity.
Joint ventures are those entities which are jointly controlled by the Group under a Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, contractual agreement with another party or parties.
and is charged to the income statement through operating expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets estimated useful life, principally These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total being a period between three and ten years, unless the asset life is judged to be recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures using the equity indefinite.
If the useful life is indefinite or the asset is not yet available for use, method, from the date that significant inuence or joint control commences to no amortisation is charged and an impairment test is carried out at least the date that it ceases, based on present ownership interests and excluding the annually.
Other intangible assets are tested for impairment in line with possible exercise of potential voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy j below.
When the Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest ii.
Property, plant and equipment in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such impairment losses, see accounting policy j, other than those items that are losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or classied as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or joint fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of PPE comprises major components venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases to be equity having different useful economic lives, the components are accounted for as accounted and, instead, is classied as held for sale and stated at the lower of separate items of PPE.
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
74 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009
