Fuelling passions Well never forget the reason why millions of customers join Sky.
Above all, they want to enter a world where they can enjoy entertainment on their own terms.
Our channels exist to make sure that customers get the TV they love.
Individual choice to satisfy every mood and occasion.
To stimulate the imaginations and fuel the passions of more than nine million families.
Last year, we invested around 1.4 billion in programming for our own channels, more than any other commercial broadcaster.
Of this, almost 1 billion is spent in the UK.
Whats more, our investment in content has increased steadily year-on-year, more than doubling over the past decade.
In addition, we support channel partners such as UKTV, Discovery and National Geographic with further investment of more than 300 million a year.
At a time when some free-to-air broadcasters are cutting back their programme budgets, we are committed to continuing investment in differentiated content.
This is fundamental to the way we intend to keep creating new reasons for people to subscribe.
We know that we need to offer each and every one of those customers something that they really love but cant get enough of on free-to-air TV.
Barcelona win the UEFA Champions League after defeating Manchester United, live and in high 16 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 definition on Sky Sports.
Fuelling passions airtime and promotion, weve played a part in Range and quality Sport the great success story of British sport and there As the number of pay TV customers grows, Nothing compares to the real-life drama is much more to come.
Our five-year partnership so does the ability of pay broadcasters to invest of live sport, and Sky Sports is famous for with British Cycling aims to get more people on in distinctive, high-quality content.
So, in these its dedication to bringing viewers the very their bikes for fun and fitness.
And through more challenging times, the relative strength best experience.
More live events, more the Sky Sports Living for Sport programme, of pay TV is increasingly clear.
While advertising depth and breadth of coverage and an were working with the Youth Sport Trust to comes under pressure, subscription revenues unparalleled commitment to the highest help motivate even more young people in have continued to grow and this financial production standards.
This year, viewers secondary schools across the UK.
strength is supporting sustained investment have enjoyed an epic season of events in programming.
including the USAs victory over Europe in Entertainment the 37th Ryder Cup at Valhalla, Andy Murrays The early success of pay TV was anchored Sky1 goes from strength to strength with a bold debut in a Grand Slam final at the US Open by a relatively narrow range of programmes, and confident schedule packed with distinctive tennis championship, and the British and notably football and movies.
But the diversity entertainment for the whole family.
Ross Kemps Irish Lions narrow defeat in their tour of of programmes on pay TV has since broadened Return to Afghanistan won critical acclaim for South Africa.
For football fans, a close finish considerably to include more original its authentic picture of life on the frontline, while to the 2008 09 Premier League season entertainment, documentaries, the arts and his follow-up In Search of Pirates brought to life was followed by Barcelonas victory over a much greater breadth of sports coverage more previously untold stories from around the Manchester United in the UEFA Champions all year round.
Original UK drama went centre-stage League final.
In the run-up to the 2009 Ashes with adaptations of David Almonds childrens series, our commitment to cricket has been Over time, we expect to see more opportunities classic Skellig and Martina Coles The Take, a as strong as ever, with an overseas England to broaden our range of programmes still further.
gripping crime thriller described by The Times tour covered in HD for the first time, the ICC Were already stepping up our commitment in as electrifying.
Sky1 continued to deliver on World Twenty20 and the World Cup victory areas such as home-grown drama and the arts, of the England womens team.
where we now have four dedicated Sky Arts channels.
We have a real appetite to do more.
Off-screen, were equally committed to And with the superb picture and sound quality helping the growth of British sport and of HD, the Sky experience is better than ever.
encouraging even more people to participate at all levels.
Through financial investment, Sky and cricket: long-term partners Sky Sports coverage of the 2009 Ashes series is the latest chapter in a 20-year partnership with cricket.
Since 1989, weve invested over 500 million in rights and production, helping to provide an unprecedented level of coverage of A night at the opera the domestic, international and womens games.
In a world first, Sky Arts took viewers behind In 2008, there were 264 days of live cricket on the scenes at English National Opera with a Sky, including 43 Test matches, 48 One-Day live simulcast of Puccinis La bohme from internationals, 61 county matches, plus Londons Coliseum.
Thanks to unprecedented womens and under-19 games.
And even access to all areas of the production, viewers amateur cricket, in the shape of the Club could watch both the performance live on stage Twenty20 finals.
and all the backstage action, experiencing first hand how a major opera is staged.
The quality, breadth and depth of our coverage has helped cricket to achieve record highs in attendance and participation the latter up a quarter in each of the last two years alone.
A television first from And were helping to nurture the next Sky Arts... magical.
generation of talent by supporting the ECBs Coach Education Programme, which has already trained 13,000 cricket coaches.
The Independent 18 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 its commitment to bring viewers the best of the US with the thrilling return of 24, a worldwide premiere of The Simpsons and the addition of the highly successful House to its line-up of US shows.
Movies With more than 500 different movies a week across dedicated genre channels, Sky Movies makes it easy for customers to find the film to match their mood.
There are at least five premieres a week on Sky Movies Premiere a year before any other TV channel.
And all movies are shown the way they were meant to be seen, uncut and ad-free.
Now with nine channels dedicated to HD movies, Sky Movies is setting the pace in bringing customers an even richer experience.
Arts Sky Arts exists to bring more of the arts to more people.
Its not about winning ratings.
Its about giving everyone the chance to enjoy Investing in UK drama Sky1 is increasing investment in Terry Pratchett adaptation, Going the things they love.
This year we doubled our Postal, starring Richard Coyle, original UK drama as part of our arts output and we now have four Sky Arts David Suchet and Charles Dance.
broad commitment to distinctive, channels, including two dedicated HD channels.
Following Sky1s commitment to such a risky and With 36 hours of programmes a day, we offer on from its BAFTA-winning success costly genre has been surprising to everything from opera to classic rock, and a with adaptations of Terry Pratchetts some.
But we have identified drama dedicated book show.
Discworld novels, Sky1 has already as a genre where we can expand our brought to the screen the works of own offering and reach out to new While other broadcasters have shown only a two other acclaimed authors this year.
audiences, meeting needs that are increasingly less well served elsewhere.
limited appetite for arts programming, we In April, more than one million Our goal is to provide customers with recognise just how many people are passionate viewers watched the premiere truly distinctive content, and to give about the arts.
If we can feed their passion, it screening of an adaption of David people more reasons to subscribe.
will help us to connect with more and more Three months later, Sky1 received customers.
And because we want to make the critical acclaim for its gripping arts accessible to all, we have a commitment to Skellig is beautifully production of Martina Coles crime supporting the arts off-screen as well, through thriller, The Take.
Following on from brought to life partnerships with leading arts organisations these successes, the next productions a genuine family treat.
in the pipeline are an adaptation of like English National Ballet, the Hay Festival Chris Ryans Strikeback and a third and Artichoke.
Mail on Sunday To find out more information about Sky, visit our website: www.
com corporate B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19 Annual Review 2009
