P utting customers first The 9.4 million families who choose Sky are not just our viewers: they are also our customers.
That distinction is more than a word to us.
Its fundamental to the way we think and the way we operate.
If customers like what we do, they will reward us with their business.
If they dont, they can choose to leave us.
Our rates of customer loyalty and satisfaction are some of the best in the world, but we never forget that Sky is a choice.
And we think that direct accountability to our customers makes us stronger as a result.
Because our business is based on a subscription model, we know that our future success relies on building long-term relationships.
That means putting customers first, understanding what they want and being responsive to what they say.
Whats more, peoples preferences change over time.
Thats why we have to be prepared constantly to change as well, so that our business and products are always geared around the customer.
Our recent advertising campaign featured entomologist Sarah Beynon, highlighting customers ability to build 12 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 their own TV packages.
Putting customers first engineers or retail agents, and listening Close to our customers Making Sky accessible to our everyday telephone conversations Unlike free-to-air broadcasters, we have a direct Responsiveness to customer needs is also what with customers.
relationship with our customers and interact drives our approach to accessibility, developing with them all the time.
Each year we handle a range of services to help disabled people get Insight from the Customer Closeness around 50 million telephone calls, while our the best out of Sky.
Since 2003, we have had a programme helps us to take a variety of field engineers visit four million homes a year.
dedicated customer service team for disabled business decisions.
For example, when Each of these conversations can be a valuable or vulnerable customers.
Last year, we increased customers let us know how often they told source of insight and engagement, which this team to over 100 people who now handle their friends and family about the way Sky helps us to keep growing over the long term.
transforms the TV experience, we decided To help maintain a relentless focus on customers, to build an entire advertising campaign Our work on accessibility doesnt stop there.
weve gone a step further by investing in a around the theme of customer advocacy.
Weve also developed an accessible remote comprehensive programme designed to bring control, which in May 2009 became the first The campaign, which featured celebrities our people real insights about our customers.
UK product to be awarded Age OK accreditation such as Sir Michael Parkinson and Kelly Brook Known as Customer Closeness, the programme from Help the Aged and Age Concern.
On-screen, talking about the difference Sky makes to was originally designed for senior managers but last year we again exceeded all requirements their lives, is one of the reasons why Sky has was soon rolled out across the Company in order for subtitling, audio description and sign grown so strongly to reach more than half of to embed customer insights even more widely.
interpretation, and made a further commitment all our customers.
Following its success, Sky So far, almost 2,000 of our people have taken to increase audio description to 20% of part in a wide variety of activities, such as was named the winner of the Best Customer programmes on most Sky channels.
This is participating in customer focus groups, Insight category at the Marketing Society part of our broad commitment to putting spending a day with one of our field Awards for Excellence 2009. customers first, just like our parental controls which help customers manage their family viewing and keep children safe online.
Our move into home communications has allowed My Sky us to offer even more value.
A Sky TV customer Our one-stop portal, My Sky, makes it easy for can save up to 190 a year by switching to Sky customers to manage their account online.
By Broadband and Sky Talk as well.
This everyday logging on to My Sky, customers can view their value has helped us to become the UKs fastestbill, make a payment, and track an order.
To help growing broadband and home phone provider, you get more out of your Sky subscription, My Sky and to win awards for customer satisfaction in can even search through thousands of programmes surveys by USwitch and Broadband Choices.
to provide a personalised, daily menu of TV picks based on your individual preferences, and allow 16% of our customers now choose Sky for the you to set up a recording on your Sky box.
combination of TV, phone and broadband, up from 11% last year.
With millions of existing Great value every day customers yet to switch, there is plenty of In a tougher economic environment, Skys growth left to go for.
strong growth is a reflection of the great value offered by pay TV compared to other everyday choices.
At 46, our top package costs less for a whole month than the price of taking the 190 family out for a single meal.
At the other end Potential saving from switching to of the scale, you can choose a package of basic TV channels for as little as 54 pence a day.
Sky Broadband and Sky Talk Saving applies to existing Sky TV customers taking Sky Broadband Unlimited, Sky Talk Freetime and Sky Talk Line Rental compared to BTs equivalent products.
14 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009 Simply great service There is no bigger priority for us than delivering simply great service.
From investing in systems to developing the skills of our people, were always working to find ways to give customers the high quality of service that they expect.
That means empowering our people so that its easy for customers to deal with us.
We provide around 300,000 hours of training for our contact centre advisers each year, so they have the skills to resolve more of our customers questions first time.
Were also making it easier for customers to find out information or get in contact with us in a wide variety of ways, such as online or via the red button on their remote control.
Almost a third of upgrades by existing customers are now handled online.
Commitment to high-quality service takes effort and investment.
In the last year, we have begun Build your own TV package upgrading our telephone systems to help us Sky stands for the best choice of TV answer calls more efficiently, opened a new available and we believe in giving contact centre in Leeds and expanded our customers the flexibility to build 500 a package to suit their own needs workforce in response to strong demand for Television and radio channels and interests.
Thats why weve our products.
As part of our push to accelerate organised our basic TV channels take-up of Sky HD, around 1,000 new jobs into six themed packs.
have been created in our service and installation Ranging from kids to music, style teams to help get customers up and running 6 and culture to knowledge, and as quickly as possible.
news and events to variety, there is Six themed TV packs something for everyone.
Our simple We know that we need to go on putting pricing structure starts at 16.50 customers at the centre of what we do.
And if a month, with each additional pack only 1 extra after that.
Customers we go on meeting their needs, their loyalty and can further tailor their package trust will be the foundation of our future success.
needs by adding Sky Sports or Sky Movies, so they only ever pay To find out more information for the TV they want.
about Sky, visit our website: www.
com corporate B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc 15 Annual Review 2009
