International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 39.
Related party transactions During the period, Group companies entered into certain transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group and who are related parties by reason of being in the same group as Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited, which is the ultimate holding company of the Investment Advisor, Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
Mr G Frost is a Director of the Company and also a Director and substantial shareholder in Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited.
Hence, transactions with Amber Infrastructure Group Limited are considered related party transactions under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux 1 Sarl.
and International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl.
wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
Mr Frost is also a Director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment.
The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer, Amber Infrastructure Limited.
On 30 March 2009, the Company announced that Babcock & Brown Investment Management Limited BBIML: the former Investment Advisor had agreed to transfer the business of providing investment advisory and management services for the Company to the Amber Infrastructure Group Limited Amber group of companies, a newly formed investment management group led by Giles Frost, Hugh Blaney and Michael Gregory.
The transfer of the business was conditional upon Amber obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals and also upon the Company agreeing to the transfer of the various management contracts from BBIML to Amber.
This transfer was concluded on 23 June 2009.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA, BBIML was appointed to provide investment advisory services to the Company including advising the Company as to the strategic management of its portfolio of investments.
Following Shareholder approval, the Company, BBIML and AFML entered into the IAA Deed of Amendment and Novation to effect the novation of the rights and responsibilities of BBIML under the IAA to AFML.
Under the terms of the IAA Deed of Amendment and Novation, the Company agreed to release BBIML from its obligations under the IAA and AFML assumed those obligations in its place.
Subject to the amendments set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated 23 April 2009, the terms of the IAA have not been varied as a consequence of the novation of the agreement from BBIML to AFML.
In particular, the fees payable to AFML following the novation are calculated on the same basis as those payable to BBIML in respect of the period prior to the novation.
The Company was also party to a Financial Advisory Mandate with Babcock & Brown UK pursuant to which Babcock & Brown UK was granted the first and last right of refusal to provide financial advisory and investment banking services to the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of future acquisitions and disposals, financing, equity raisings, refinancing, restructuring and certain other related activities.
As part of the novation of the IAA from BBIML to AFML the existing Financial Advisory Mandate was terminated and its provisions substantially incorporated into the IAA.
The Limited Partnership agreement between International Public Partnerships GP Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnership GP Limited and Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships 2 Sarl was amended to reflect the changes in the agreements described above.
Upon transfer of the management arrangements to Amber and following the disposal by Babcock & Brown International Pty Limited of its holding of shares in the Company, which was announced on 1 April 2009, and the conclusion of the Transitional Services Agreement, the Company now has no association with the Babcock & Brown group.
During the prior year, Group companies entered into certain transactions with related parties who were not members of the Group and who were related parties by reason of being in the same group as Babcock & Brown Limited, which is the ultimate holding company of the Former Investment Advisor, Babcock & Brown Investment Management Limited.
Mr G Frost is a Director of the Company and also was a key management 98 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued member of Babcock & Brown Limited prior to 23 June 2009.
Hence, transactions up to 23 June 2009 with the Babcock & Brown group are considered related party transactions under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
There were no related party transactions with the Babcock & Brown group in the period from 1 January 2009 to 23 June 2009.
Related party transactions arose in the period or the prior period with the following entities all of whom have Amber Infrastructure Group Limited or formerly Babcock & Brown Limited as their ultimate holding company: The amounts of the transactions in the year that were related party transactions are set out in the table below.
Amounts paid Amounts paid to related to received from Amounts owing parties in Income related parties in to from related parties 1 2 Statement Balance Sheet in Balance Sheet For the For the year ended year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Amber Fund Management Ltd a - - 778 - 44 - International Public Partnerships GP Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships GP Limited b 14,896 6,165 - - 11,711 3,637 Babcock & Brown Limited c - 3,272 - 6,278 - 517 Amber Asset Management Limited d 2,287 - 145 - 375 - Amber Australia Pty Ltd e 1,487 - - - - - Babcock & Brown Investment Holdings Pty Limited f - - - 6,590 - - Babcock & Brown PPP Sarl g - - - 2,024 - - BeNEX GmbH h - - 17,342 - - Amber GmbH i 268 - - - - - Pinnacle Infrastructure Pty Ltd j - - - 57,508 - - Infracare Capital Limited k - - - 4,259 - - Babcock & Brown European Investments Sarl l - - - 27,602 - - Total 18,938 9,437 923 109,047 12,130 4,154 1 Represents amounts paid to related parties to acquire investments or advisory fees associated with investments which are subsequently recorded in the balance sheet.
99 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Represents debtors and creditors outstanding with related parties at each balance sheet date.
a Amber Fund Management Limited AFML, the Investment Advisor, is a related party of the Group.
The aggregate fees payable to AFML in its capacity as Investment Advisor includes both base and performance fees, however the amount is reduced by any base or performance fees that have been paid or are due and payable to International Public Partnerships GP Limited see b.
The amounts paid to AFML for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 778,000 2008 nil and relates to advisory fees.
Material provisions of the Investment Advisory Agreement include that AFML is entitled to a Base Fee in each year at the annual rate of 1.2 per cent per annum of the Gross Asset Value less project specific liabilities of the Investment Portfolio.
AFML is also entitled to an Incentive Fee in respect of each Incentive Period equal to 20 per cent.
of the excess if any of the Ordinary Share Return over the Benchmark Return as defined in the Investment Advisory Agreement in the Incentive Period, provided that the Incentive Fee shall only be payable if and to the extent that the change in the Ordinary Share Return Index in the relevant Incentive Period is greater than the change in the Benchmark Return Index.
The Investment Advisory Agreement may be terminated by either party giving to the other five years notice of termination, expiring at any time after 15 years from the date of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
The Investment Advisory Agreement may also be terminated immediately by either party: a if the other party fails to make a payment when due which is not paid within 30 days of being notified of the failure to make a payment: or b in the case of the material breach by the other party which remains unremedied for 30 days after such party has been notified of the breach or, if such breach is not capable of remedy, if the breaching party fails to offer compensation in respect of such breach which is reasonably acceptable to the other party.
In addition, subject to the Shareholders passing an ordinary resolution directly to the Directors to terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Company can terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement by giving one years written notice to the Investment Advisor in either of the following circumstances: a if at any time after the expiry of five years from the date of the Investment Advisory Agreement, the Benchmark Return Index outperforms the Ordinary Share Index by more than 3 per cent.
In at least eight out of the immediately proceeding 10 quarterly periods unless the reason for the out performance of the Benchmark Return Index was to a material extent caused by the occurrence of an event of force majeure : or b if at any time a material in number of and seniority of employees in the Amber groups infrastructure and project finance group cease to be employed by any member of the Amber group and are not replaced before the end of the one year written notice period by suitably qualified other staff who will enable the services to be provided under the Investment Advisory Agreement in a manner at least comparable to that in which the services were provided prior to the occurrence of such event.
Material provisions of this agreement include that the Operating Agreement may be terminated by either the Partnership or the Operator giving to the other five years notice of termination, expiring at any time after 15 years from the date of the Operating Agreement.
The Operating Agreement may also be terminated immediately by the Partnership or the Operator: a if the other party fails to make a payment when due which is not paid within 30 days of being notified of the failure to make a payment: or b in the case of the material breach by the other party which remains unremedied for 30 days after such party has been notified of the breach or, if such breach is not capable of remedy, if the breaching party fails to offer compensation in respect of such breach which is reasonably acceptable to the other party.
The Partnership can terminate the Operating Agreement immediately in any of the following circumstances: a on the insolvency or analogous event occurring in respect of the Operator: b if the Operator is no longer permitted by applicable laws, rules and regulations to provide its services under the Operating Agreement: and c if the Investment Advisor is removed or replaced in accordance with the Investment Advisory Agreement, save that in the case of a and b, the General Partner shall, if so required by Amber Fund Management Limited, novate the Operating Agreement in favour of another member of the Amber Group that is reasonably acceptable to the Limited Partner, who is not insolvent and who can provide the services in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
100 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued b International Public Partnerships GP Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships GP Limited is a related party of the Group.
This company was acquired by the Amber Group of companies on 23 June 2009 and as General Partner pursuant to the Deed of Limited Partnership dated 10 October 2006, between the General Partner and the Limited Partner International Public Partnerships Lux 2 Sarl.
formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships 1 Sarl.
is entitled to a Base Priority Profit Share and an Incentive Priority Profit Share that is calculated in accordance with the Investment Advisory Agreement.
c Babcock & Brown Limited registered in England and Wales was a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited registered in New South Wales, Australia as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and had various asset management agreements with the underlying PFI concession companies to provide asset management services and also provides financial advisory services in respect of the acquisition and financing by the Group of its various investments.
In addition, the Dublin Criminal Courts PFI concession contained a requirement for a deferred equity contribution under the project documentation which was guaranteed by Babcock & Brown Limited who held this amount on behalf of the Company, however this was repaid into the project company during 2008. d Amber Asset Management Limited registered in England and Wales is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has various asset management agreements with the underlying PFI concession companies of the Group to provide asset management services.
e Amber Australia Pty Limited registered in NSW, Australia is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has various asset management agreements with the underlying PFI concession companies of the Group to provide asset management services in Australia.
f Babcock & Brown Investment Holdings Pty Limited was a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and was the vendor to the Group of one or more assets acquired during the year ended 31 December 2008. g Babcock & Brown PPP Sarl was a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and was the vendor to the Group of one or more assets acquired during the year ended 31 December 2008. h As part of the Groups investment in BeNEX GmbH a deferred commitment of 17.3 million was paid on 2 January 2008. i Amber GmbH is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the Investment Advisor and has a services agreement with International Public Partnerships Infrastructure Group & Co KG.
j Pinnacle Infrastructure Pty Limited as trustee for Pinnacle Infrastructure Unit Trust is a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and was the vendor to the Group of one or more assets acquired during the year ended 31 December 2008.
101 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued k Infracare Capital Limited was a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and was the vendor to the Group of one or more assets acquired during the year ended 31 December 2008. l Babcock & Brown European Investment Sarl was a related party of the Group pursuant to having Babcock & Brown Limited as its ultimate holding company in common with the former Investment Advisor and was the vendor to the Group of one or more assets acquired during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions with directors The following directors have purchased shares from the Company following the capital raising of New Ordinary Shares.
These were acquired in January 2010.
Number of New Ordinary Director Shares Keith Dorrian 2,075 Carol Goodwin 20,550 Rupert Dorey including spouse 170,000 Total purchased 192,625 102
