International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued During construction, the financial assets are stated at cost, plus attributable profit to the extent that this is reasonably certain, less any losses incurred or foreseen in bringing construction to completion, and less amounts received as progress payments.
Costs for this purpose include valuation of all work done by subcontractors whether certified or not, and all overheads other than those relating to the general administration of the relevant companies.
For any contracts where receipts exceed the book value of work done, the excess is included in creditors as payments on account.
Financial assets are accounted for as either: loans and receivables and measured at fair value at inception and thereafter carried at amortised cost, less provision for impairment: or available for sale financial assets and measured at fair value with fair value gains or losses recognised directly in equity through the statement of changes in equity and recycled into the income statement on sale or impairment of the asset at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
The Companys interpretation of this policy is that financial assets in the operational phase or acquired towards the end of the construction phase are classified as loans and receivables as cash flows are deemed to be fixed and determinable.
Financial assets for concessions in the construction phases or acquired in early construction, are classified as available for sale financial assets, reflecting the risk in the construction phase that cash flows may not be fixed and determinable.
Intangible assets within scope of IFRIC 12 : Service concessions are accounted for as intangible assets where the Group, as operator, has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
The intangible asset is amortised to estimated residual value over the remaining life of the service concession and tested each year for impairment.
Leases Service concessions which fall outside of the scope of IFRIC 12 are assessed in terms of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
Where it is assessed that the service concession does contain a lease, the concession is considered as either a finance lease or an operating lease in terms of IAS 17 Leases.
Under IAS 17, a finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset.
An operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the benefits and risks with the asset reside with the PFI project company these assets are accordingly disclosed in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is calculated over the life of the concession or specific asset life if shorter.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
57 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Adoption of IFRIC 12 The Directors decided to early adopt the principles of the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretation 12 IFRIC 12.
As part of this process each individual service concession was assessed to determine whether it falls within the scope of IFRIC 12.
Service concessions fall within the scope where the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and the price: and the grantor controls, through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise, any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the service arrangement.
Following this review it was determined that the majority of the PFI concessions controlled fall within this scope.
Service concessions are determined to be financial assets where the operator has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the grantor.
Alternatively, service concessions are determined to be intangible assets to the extent the operator has a contractual right to charge users of the public services.
Where service concessions are determined to contain both of these elements, a bifurcated model will be adopted.
The majority of PFI concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 are considered to be financial assets on the basis that substantially all of the unitary charge is received from the grantor on an availability basis.
One of the Group's PFI concessions falls to be accounted for using the bifurcated model, where a financial asset is recognised on the basis that substantially all of the unitary charge is received from the grantor on an availability basis and an intangible asset in relation to the right to charge users of the infrastructure asset on the 'demand' basis.
Under the guidance of IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Measurement and Recognition, the financial asset is accounted for as either a loan and receivable or as an available for sale financial asset.
A loan and receivable is appropriate where there are fixed and determinable payments and the operator will recover substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration.
Financial assets that do not meet these criteria are designated as available for sale financial assets.
Service concessions which have future significant development activities are classified as available for sale financial assets as the timing and amount of future payments and receipts are not necessarily fixed.
The Directors are of the opinion that loans and receivables is the appropriate accounting treatment for the majority of these financial assets, due to the nature of the underlying service concessions.
Financial Assets The fair value during the construction phase of financial assets is determined by reference to the construction spend plus financial income less availability payments received from the grantor.
The fair value during the operational phase of financial assets has been determined by discounting future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate and with reference to recent market transactions.
The discount rates utilised to discount future cash flows are calculated by adding a project specific premium to the 15-year gilt yield at 31 December 2009.
The premium takes into account several factors, including but not limited to, the stage reached by each project, the period of operation and historical track record.
