International Public Partnerships Limited formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships Limited Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Registered number: 45241 Cautionary Statement The Pages 2 to 37 of this report including the Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisors Report, the Review Section have been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
These should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Review Section may include statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors and the Investment Advisor concerning, amongst other things, the investment objectives and investment policy, financing strategies, investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, and distribution policy of the Company and the markets in which it invests.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
The Companys actual investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, distribution policy and the development of its financing strategies may differ materially from the impression created by the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Subject to their legal and regulatory obligations, the Directors and the Investment Advisor expressly disclaim any obligations to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based.
This Annual Report has been prepared for the Group as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to International Public Partnerships Limited and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
International Public Partnerships Limited Contents Summary 2 Chairmans Statement 7 Investment Policy 11 Portfolio Interests 15 Investment Advisors Report 17 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Report 32 Audit Committee Report 36 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 37 Independent Auditors Report 38 Consolidated Income Statement 40 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 41 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 42 Consolidated Balance Sheet 44 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 47 1
