International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information International Public Partnerships Limited is a closed ended authorised investment company incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The address of the registered office is given on page 3.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Investment Advisors Report on pages 17 to 22.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and represents the functional currency of the Group.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
The United Kingdom partnerships within the International Public Partnerships Limited Group fall to be classified as qualifying partnerships, as defined in the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 as amended by SI 2005 No 1987 The Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Amendment Regulations 2005, and as such the exemption from preparing accounts is utilised by them as their results are included in these consolidated accounts and appropriate disclosure of this exemption will be provided in the partnership financial statements.
Basis of preparation As set out in the Directors Report, the Directors, in their consideration of going concern have reviewed comprehensive cash flow forecasts prepared by management, which are based on prudent market data and past experience and believe, based on those forecasts and an assessment of the Group's committed banking facilities and the available headroom, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful that the Group had unrestricted cash of 37 million as at 31 December 2009, banking facilities available for investment in new or existing projects which are committed until May 2011 and is forecast to continue in full compliance with the associated banking covenants.
Further the Company completed a capital raising that concluded in January 2010 which provided additional cash resources in excess of 89 million.
Certain risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic environment have been considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that these do not represent a significant threat to the Group as its income is generated from a portfolio of PFI concessions which are supported by government backed cash flows and are forecast to cover the Group's committed costs.
The Groups cash, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are disclosed in notes 21 and 22.
In addition, the Groups policy for management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, foreign exchange, credit and interest risks are set out in notes 3, 23 and 29.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations are effective for the current period and resulted in a change in the accounting policies of the Group.
These are: IAS 1 revised 2007 - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 revised 2007 has introduced a number of changes in the format and content of the financial statements.
The revised standard requires the presentation of a statement of comprehensive income in the primary financial statements with the information previously disclosed in the statement of recognised income that formed part of the statement of changes in equity.
