International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy Investment Objectives Distributions The Company seeks to provide shareholders with a predictable and attractive yield on the Companys investments: the Board of Directors have provided indicative distribution guidance of 5.70 pence per share for 2010, a near 3% increase on 2009: as per previous periods, it is the Companys policy to pay distributions entirely from cash flows generated from operations: it is the Boards intention to grow distributions at least in line with inflation in future years the Groups inflation forecast: 2.5% per annum.
Capital Growth The Directors also believe that long-term capital growth can be achieved.
The Company will target an IRR equal to or greater than 8 per cent.
on the original Initial Public Offer issue price of 100 pence per ordinary share to be achieved over the long-term and the Company hopes to achieve this through amongst other techniques asset development, future acquisitions, active management and prudent use of gearing.
The portfolio is performing in line with this target and the Directors believe, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, that there are currently opportunities to acquire further investments that may enhance the Companys IRR.
Investment Policy Introduction The Group intends to continue acquiring operational and construction phase assets from Amber and or third party vendors.
The Group intends but is not bound to hold its investments for the long-term and may even hold its investments for the life of a project.
The Group will seek to enhance the capital value of its investments and the income derived from its investments.
The Group intends to acquire further investments within any of the following parameters: investments with characteristics similar to the existing portfolio: investments in other assets or concessions having a public infrastructure character and in respect of which availability based payments are or will become payable or in respect of which a property rental is or will become payable or in respect of which user paid charges or payments related to amount of use are or will become payable: or investments in infrastructure assets or concessions which, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, the Directors believe have high barriers to entry and expect to generate an attractive total rate of return over the whole of the life of the investments.
At 31 December 2009, more than 99% of the portfolio based on NAV was held in assets in which revenue is received, or will be received, via availability based payments.
The Company has minimal exposure to assets where revenue is subject to demand or patronage levels.
11 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued Such investments may be for investment capital in single assets or portfolios of assets and may arise globally.
The Group may therefore make investments in any location or jurisdiction where the investment in question meets the parameters set out above.
Geographic Diversification The Companys investment policy is to invest directly or indirectly in public or social infrastructure assets located in the U. K. Australia, Europe, North America and, it is anticipated, in due course, in other parts of the world.
While there are no restrictions on the amount of the Companys assets which may be invested in any one area or sector, the Group will, over the long-term, seek a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
Shareholders should note that the actual asset allocation will depend on the development of the infrastructure market, market conditions and the judgment of the Investment Advisor and the Board as to what is in the best interests of Shareholders at the time of the relevant investment.
Since listing, the percentage of assets located outside the U. K. has increased from 10% at the time of the IPO to 47% at 31 December 2009.
New Investments and Conflicts of Interest It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Advisor and it is likely that some of these will be investments that have been originated and developed by, and may be acquired from the Amber Group.
The Group has established the following procedures and arrangements to deal with the possible conflicts of interest that may arise in respect of any proposed acquisition of an investment from the Amber Group and to manage the conduct of such acquisitions accordingly.
The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include that Amber will be an existing investor in the asset while its subsidiary, AFML, acts on the buyside as Investment Advisor.
The Investment Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the vendors: and on the buyside AFML as Investment Advisor must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and the price of, the acquisition.
These include a requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert.
The acquisition of assets from any member of the Amber Group will be considered and approved by the Independent Directors of the Company.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon which any investment is acquired from a member of the Amber Group is on an arms length basis.
Single Asset Exposure The Group will not other than in respect of Holding Entities lend to, or invest in the securities of, any one company or group, more than 20 per cent.
of the Groups total assets as calculated at the time the investment or loan is made.
The Directors have adopted this investment restriction with the intention of maintaining a spread of investment risk.
This investment restriction applies at the time of investment.
The Group will not be required to rebalance its Investment Portfolio in accordance with such investment restriction as a result of a change in the Net Asset Value of any investment or of the Net Asset Value of the Group as a whole.
At 31 December 2009, the largest investment in the Companys portfolio, the Diabolo Rail project, accounted for 10.7%.
While the Companys largest ten investments accounted for 68% of the portfolio.
Cash Management Until the Group is fully invested and pending re-investment or distribution of cash receipts, cash received by the Group will be invested in cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
The Group may also hold derivative or other financial instruments designed for efficient portfolio management or to hedge interest, inflation or currency rate risks.
The Company and any other member of the Group may also lend cash which it holds as part of its cash management policy.
12 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued Hedging Where investments are made in currencies other than GBP, it is expected that the Group will consider whether to hedge currency risk in accordance with the Groups currency and hedging policy as determined from time to time by the Directors.
A portion of the Groups underlying investments may be denominated in currencies other than GBP.
For example, a portion of the Existing Portfolio and some of the Pipeline Investments are denominated in Australian Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euro.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will be made in GBP and the market prices and Net Asset Value of the New Shares and the Existing Ordinary Shares will be reported in GBP.
Currency hedging may be carried out to seek to provide some protection to the level of GBP dividends and other distributions that the Group aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in order to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations and the volatility of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
Such currency hedging may include the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate hedging may be carried out to seek to provide protection against increasing costs of servicing debt drawn down by the Group to finance investments.
This may involve the use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
Hedging against inflation may also be carried out and this may involve the use of RPI swaps and similar derivative instruments.
It is intended that the currency, interest rate and any inflationary hedging policies be reviewed by the Directors on a regular basis to ensure that the risks associated with movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and inflation are being appropriately managed.
Such transactions if carried out will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management to stabilise returns from the portfolio and will not be carried out for speculative purposes.
The execution of currency, interest rate and inflationary hedging transactions is at the discretion of AFML in its capacity as Operator as defined in note 39, subject to the policies set by and the overall supervision of the Directors.
Leverage The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Borrowings may be made by the Company itself or by any of the Holding Entities.
Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to up to 50 per cent.
of the Gross Asset Value of the Groups investments and cash balances, with the Company having the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66 per cent.
of such Gross Asset Value on a short term i. e. less than 365 days basis if considered appropriate.
Circumstances where this might be the case include for the purposes of new acquisitions.
For the purposes of the borrowing limitation, outstanding borrowings exclude intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying Project Entities.
The Group may borrow in currencies other than GBP as part of any currency hedging strategy.
Following the capital raising in January 2010, the Company repaid in entirety its Group-level borrowings and has no gearing.
Debt secured against each of the projects is on an individual asset basis and is non-recourse to the Company.
The Company also seeks to secure long-term debt matched to the concession life of the asset.
For example, the average life of the existing project-level debt is 23 years compared to the average remaining life of the Companys assets of 24 years.
13 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Policy continued Changes to Investment Policy Material changes to the investment policy set out in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the Shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Investment Strategy The Directors believe that the opportunity offered to the Company by its relationship with Amber will lead to the Group being well placed to acquire further investments meeting the Companys investment objectives and policy.
The Directors believe that there are two ways in which this is likely to occur: acquisition of further investments developed by Amber the Directors are aware of a number of further transactions within the PPP sector for which Amber is Preferred Bidder or which are under development by Amber.
These opportunities should offer strong capital growth potential: and acquisitions from third parties.
Such acquisitions may be of single assets, of portfolios or of shares in companies or partnership interests.
These investments are likely to be at an operational stage, having been developed by the vendor, and offer strong support to the Companys income and therefore yield paid to investors.
The Directors anticipate, based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, that sufficient attractive investment opportunities will be available to the Company to utilise the proceeds from the recent capital raising over the next 6 to 12 months.
Opportunities are currently under review in the U. K. Europe, Australia and Canada, having all the same or similar characteristics as the Companys existing portfolio, including: long term concession terms, typically 25-30 years: revenues subject to availability based payments, rather than demand or patronage levels such as is the case with toll roads for example: revenues which are to a large extent either linked to inflation or fixed: majority ownership and Board representation: long term debt secured against the asset ensuring minimal refinancing requirements.
The acquisition of further investments will be financed from cash reserves including those arising from the capital raising and should these reserves be exhausted by raising debt and or through seeking additional capital from shareholders and equity capital markets or a combination of these.
Acquisitions will be led by a desire to increase value for shareholders.
Further investments may be either direct or indirect i. e. through the Group investing in a company or other entity which itself has a direct or indirect interest in the underlying investment opportunity.
It is currently expected that any further investments will, as with the existing portfolio, be held through the Group structure but the Directors and the Investment Advisor will keep the structure under review and amend it as may be appropriate for the most efficient holding of investments.
Any material changes to the investment policy set out in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the Shareholders in accordance with the Listing Rules.
