International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended - Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 3 revised 2008 - Business Combinations The Group did not early adopt the revised IFRS 3 and so will apply it prospectively to all business combinations on or after 1 January 2010.
Whilst it is not practicable to estimate the outcome of adoption, the key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisition related costs to be expensed and not included in the purchase price: and for contingent consideration to be recognised at fair value on the acquisition date with subsequent changes recognised in the income statement and not as a change to goodwill.
The standard also changes the treatment of non-controlling interests formerly minority interests with an option to recognise these at full fair value as at the acquisition date and a requirement for previously held non-controlling interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
IAS 27 revised 2008 - Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised 2008 - Investments in Associates IFRIC 17 - Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 The directors do not expect that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries and associates when IFRS 3 revised 2008, IAS 27 revised 2008 and IAS 28 revised 2008 come into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after 1 January 2010.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, issued by, or adopted by, the International Accounting Standards Board, interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, applicable legal and regulatory requirements of Guernsey and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the reported amounts in these financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, as amended to reflect certain items that are presented at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries up to 31 December 2009.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition and where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
49 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
The excess amount arising on acquisition is recognised as an intangible asset and initially carried at fair value at acquisition.
This intangible asset represents the rights to future profits on the service element of the related concessions.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are not recognised in the financial statements.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Intangibles An intangible asset is recognised on the acquisition of service concession arrangements and represents the rights to future profits on the service element of these concessions.
This intangible is initially recognised at fair value and is subsequently amortised over the life of the underlying concessions.
The Group also recognises an intangible asset on the right to charge users of the infrastructure assets within a service concession.
This intangible asset is initially measured at fair value and is subsequently amortised over the remaining life of the concession from the date on which it is available for use.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at fair value on acquisition, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method at 4.3%.
50 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents the following in respect of PFI PPP projects: The value of construction work-in-progress on PFI projects where the principal asset is to be accounted for as a financial or intangible asset: Availability fees and usage fees on PFI projects where the principal asset is accounted for as a fixed or intangible asset: Revenues from the provision of facilities management services to PFI projects: Non-core facility recharges being recovered for ad hoc services delivered by PFI projects at the request of the client: and Third-party revenues on PFI projects.
Financial asset interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment has been established.
Acquisition costs Acquisition costs are those costs predominantly legal and financial advisory costs, due diligence costs, stamp duty and including the investment advisory fees in respect of the acquisition incurred by the Group in connection with acquisitions of investments.
Acquisition costs are included in the price in determining the cost of the Groups investments.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each group company are expressed in pound sterling which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at spot rates on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at spot rates.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rate at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if 51 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Where the property of PFI PPP projects is accounted for as a financial or intangible asset in the course of construction, the sale is deemed to take place as construction commences and borrowing costs on the associated project finance are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation The Company has obtained exempt company status in Guernsey under the terms of the Income Tax exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 and accordingly is subject to an annual charge of currently 600.
The Companys subsidiaries are subject to corporate income tax on any taxable income, after allowing for both revenue and capital deductions arising from their activities.
The tax expense included in the income statement represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax and is calculated in accordance with applicable legislation in the jurisdictions in which each entity operates.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in past or future years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective 52 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
The carrying value of the financial asset is adjusted to reflect changes in actual and estimated cash flows with any adjustment recognised as income or expense in profit or loss.
The change in carrying value is calculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets designated as at FVTPL.
Available for sale financial assets Investments classified as available for sale are measured initially and at each subsequent reporting date at fair value.
For available for sale financial assets, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for the period.
The fair value of available for sale financial assets are determined as follows: the fair value of available for sale financial assets with standard terms and conditions and traded on an active liquid market are determined with reference to quoted market prices: or the fair value of other available for sale financial assets are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable market transactions.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Financial liabilities are classified as either FVTPL or as other financial liabilities.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs which are expensed against the Companys Share Premium Account as allowed by The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group may use foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge these exposures.
53 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Due to the nature of PFI PPP projects, it is important that key financial risks are hedged at the inception of the project, and indeed the funders of the projects insist on this.
Therefore each PFI PPP project fixes the interest rate on its debt.
In a minority of cases, this is achieved by either financing the project with a fixed rate bond or fixed rate bank debt.
In the majority of cases, this is achieved by funding the project with a variable rate bank debt which is fully swapped into fixed rate at the inception of the project.
Hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity documents the relationships between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with the risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking various transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the group documents whether the hedging instruments used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where ineffectiveness is judged to have occurred, either a proportion or the full amount of the ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement depending on the level of effectiveness experienced.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is terminated, for example if a project is refinanced.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is recycled through the income statement over the remaining life of the instrument on a straight line basis.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss for the period.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments and other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Credit risk The Group is not exposed to significant credit risk as the Group derives revenue from PFI concessions with government departments, local authorities and other public sector clients: with the exception of the following concessions: RiverCity Motorway - which derives toll revenue at the point of sale: the Diabolo Project which predominately derives revenue from the local authority, however is exposed to an element of demand risk: and Angel Trains which provides rolling stock to various Train Operating Companies TOCs under long term lease arrangements.
Certain elements of the revenue generated by Angel Trains benefits from Section 54 undertakings.
These undertakings provide guaranteed minimum lease rentals to entities such as Angel Trains for periods exceeding the first lease length therefore greatly mitigating re-lease risk on fleets considered strategic by the Department for Transport and are granted at the time of the initial investment.
The Group policy is to deal only with credit worthy counter parties in its banking and sub contracting arrangements.
54 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Liquidity risk The Group adopts a prudent approach to liquidity management and maintains sufficient cash reserves to meet its obligations.
The very nature of a PFI concession provides predictable long-term stable cash flows.
Loans in PFI project entities are non-recourse.
Non-recourse loans are those which are secured solely on a specific asset and its future income.
The terms of the finance agreements provide that the lender will not seek in any way to enforce repayment of either principal or interest from the rest of the Group and the Group is not obliged, nor does it intend, to support any losses.
In 2008 the Group took out a corporate debt facility for 100m, of which, 58.3m was drawn down at 31 December 2009.
This facility matures on 8 May 2011 and is secured over all assets of the Company.
This facility is of sufficient size to meet the Groups foreseeable funding requirements, including providing significant headroom available to support acquisitions, should suitable opportunities be identified and executed.
This facility cannot be used for working capital purposes.
Inflation risk The revenues and expenditure of project entities developed under PFI PPP are partly or wholly subject to indexation.
An assumption is made that inflation will increase at a long-term rate which may vary depending on country and from time to time.
The effect on investment returns if inflation is above or below the original projections for this long term rate is dependent on the nature of the underlying project earnings and any unitary charge indexation provisions agreed with the Public Sector Client.
The Groups ability to meet targets and its objective may be adversely or positively affected by inflation and or deflation.
Foreign exchange risk The Group has exposures to foreign currency exchange rate movement, as a result of its investments in assets which have functional currency other than Sterling and are not hedged as at 31 December 2009.
The Group has entered into forward exchange contracts to mitigate these risks.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an intangible is not yet ready for use, it is tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and any impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
55 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
For shares classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognised through profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly in equity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
PFI PPP Concessions In accordance with International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretation 12 Service Concessions Arrangements IFRIC 12 and the various provisions of IFRS, the Group has determined the appropriate treatment of the principal assets of, and income streams from PFI and similar contracts.
Results of all PFI PPP concessions which fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 conform to the following policies: Financial assets Service concessions are accounted for as financial assets where the Group, as operator, has a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from or at the direction of the Client grantor.
Income is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable to construction income and service income.
The residual element of cash receivable is allocated to the financial asset, using the effective interest method, giving rise to interest income which is recognised in the income statement.
