International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
General information International Public Partnerships Limited is a closed ended authorised investment company incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The address of the registered office is given on page 3.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Investment Advisors Report on pages 17 to 22.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling as this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates and represents the functional currency of the Group.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
The United Kingdom partnerships within the International Public Partnerships Limited Group fall to be classified as qualifying partnerships, as defined in the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Regulations 1993 as amended by SI 2005 No 1987 The Partnerships and Unlimited Companies Accounts Amendment Regulations 2005, and as such the exemption from preparing accounts is utilised by them as their results are included in these consolidated accounts and appropriate disclosure of this exemption will be provided in the partnership financial statements.
Basis of preparation As set out in the Directors Report, the Directors, in their consideration of going concern have reviewed comprehensive cash flow forecasts prepared by management, which are based on prudent market data and past experience and believe, based on those forecasts and an assessment of the Group's committed banking facilities and the available headroom, that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a going concern basis.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the Directors were mindful that the Group had unrestricted cash of 37 million as at 31 December 2009, banking facilities available for investment in new or existing projects which are committed until May 2011 and is forecast to continue in full compliance with the associated banking covenants.
Further the Company completed a capital raising that concluded in January 2010 which provided additional cash resources in excess of 89 million.
Certain risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic environment have been considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that these do not represent a significant threat to the Group as its income is generated from a portfolio of PFI concessions which are supported by government backed cash flows and are forecast to cover the Group's committed costs.
The Groups cash, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are disclosed in notes 21 and 22.
In addition, the Groups policy for management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, foreign exchange, credit and interest risks are set out in notes 3, 23 and 29.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations are effective for the current period and resulted in a change in the accounting policies of the Group.
These are: IAS 1 revised 2007 - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 revised 2007 has introduced a number of changes in the format and content of the financial statements.
The revised standard requires the presentation of a statement of comprehensive income in the primary financial statements with the information previously disclosed in the statement of recognised income that formed part of the statement of changes in equity.
47 International Public Partnerships Limited Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued As there has been a retrospective change in the accounting policies, in respect of the adoption of IFRS 7 amended and IFRS 8, of the Group there is a requirement to present a third balance sheet, however as this change is not deemed material a balance sheet as at 31 December 2007 has not been presented as it is unadjusted from the previously published version.
IFRS 7 amended Financial Instrument: Disclosures The amendments to IFRS 7 expand the disclosures regarding reclassifications of financial assets and provided for additional disclosures in respect of fair value measurements and liquidity risk.
The Group has elected not to provide comparative information for these expanded disclosures in the current year in accordance with the transitional reliefs offered in these amendments.
IFRS 8 - Operating Segments IFRS 8 is a disclosure Standard that has resulted in a redesignation of the Groups reportable segments as per note 6.
IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Group's Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The information previously disclosed under the predecessor standard IAS 14 - Segment Reporting required the Group to identify two sets of segments business and geographical, using a risks and rewards approach.
The Directors have reviewed the business segments identified under IAS 14 and concluded that management information is presented in a variety of ways, however, considered that these segments continue to be appropriate under IFRS 8 as the principal way in which information is reported.
The requirements of IFRS 8 have resulted in certain changes to disclosures and the introduction of a fourth UK segment.
The adoption of the following Standards and Interpretations has not led to any material changes in the Groups accounting policies for the year.
IAS 20 amended Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance IAS 23 revised 2007 - Borrowing Costs IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended - Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation.
IAS 38 amended - Intangible Assets IAS 39 amended - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement The amendment to IAS 39 permits an entity to reclassify non-derivative financial assets out of the fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and available-for-sale AFS categories in very limited circumstances.
Such reclassifications are permitted from 1 July 2008.
Reclassifications of financial assets made in periods beginning on or after 1 November 2008 take effect only from the date when the reclassification is made.
During the period the Group did not undertake any reclassifion IAS 40 amended Investment Property IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended - Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate.
IFRS 2 amended - Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRIC 9 - Embedded Derivatives Amendments to Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRIC 15 - Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 - Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 18 - Transfers of Assets from Customers adopted for transfers of assets from customers received on or after 1 July 2009 48
