International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report About the Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited.
Amber Infrastructure has a global investment and advisory focus and AFML is authorised and regulated in the U. K. by the Financial Services Authority.
In June 2009, Amber Infrastructure Group acquired the public private partnerships business of Babcock & Brown, which previously provided investment advisory services to the Company and at the same time, following approval at a meeting of the shareholders of the Company and regulatory approval, the management and advisory arrangements relating to the Company were transferred to AFML.
Investment Performance Performance across the portfolio remains good.
In particular, it has been pleasing to note the strong recovery in the Companys share price over the period to 31 December 2009.
This was driven by strong investment performance as well as a positive response by shareholders to the change of the management and advisory arrangements.
We believe that the Company continues to offer an attractive proposition for those investors seeking returns from investments whose performance is to a substantial extent uncorrelated with general economic conditions.
The total shareholder return share price growth plus distributions for investors from the launch of the Company in November 2006 to 31 December 2009 has been 31%, compared to a total return on the FTSE 250 of negative 3%.
Portfolio Performance The assets within the Portfolio again performed on an overall basis in line with the Companys projections during the period.
At 31 December 2008, 33% of the portfolio was under construction.
This has reduced to 29% at 31 December 2009, following the handover of Durham Courthouse in Canada and Dublin Courts in Ireland which occurred in November 17 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued 2009.
Notably Dublin Courts was completed ahead of schedule which allowed the Courts Service of Ireland to occupy the premises three months earlier than anticipated with all 22 courtrooms occupied by January 2010.
The Durham Courthouse in Canada was also completed on time.
Each of the following projects under construction is either on schedule or ahead of time.
The single exception within the Companys construction portfolio is the Reliance Rail project in Australia less than 1% of the portfolio by value where there has been a five month delay in the delivery of the first complete train set by the manufacturers Hitachi and EDI Downer.
The final completion date for this project remains projected for 2013.
The Reliance Rail project is protected by contracts that provide in certain circumstances for the contractors, Hitachi and EDI Downer, to pay compensation for loss of revenue resulting from the late delivery of the rolling stock.
In addition, the Reliance Rail project has been adversely affected by the fact that it is financed though a monoline wrapped bond structure.
The loss of creditworthiness of the monoline insurers coupled with the downgrade in the credit rating on the project debt has, along with the delayed construction, led to the Companys investment in this asset being re-valued downwards.
The project is closely overseen by the Amber asset management team in Australia who meet regularly with the consortium to consider the progress of the project.
Asset Location Expected Status % of INPP NAV Completion Date Dudley Brierley U. K. April 2010 On schedule 1 Hill LIFT River City Australia April 2010 5 months ahead 1 Motorway Alberta Schools Canada June 2010 On schedule 5 Orange Hospital Australia July 2011 On schedule 3 Diabolo Rail Belgium February 2012 On schedule 11 1 Reliance Rail Australia September 2013 On schedule 1 Royal Childrens Australia December 2014 On schedule 9 Hospital 1 Stage 1 is currently 5 months behind schedule: however the last independent report indicates that the final delivery date is still on schedule.
The revaluation of the Companys investment in Reliance Rail together with the mark to market of the Companys investment in River City Motorway results in a lower IFRS accounting profit for the year.
It is worth emphasising however that the cash received by the Company in the period from its investments was in line with projections.
As a consequence of this strong cashflow the Company remained fully covered on its 2009 distribution.
Opportunities to enhance value continue to be keenly pursed by the asset management division within the Investment Advisor.
During the period the Company worked to deliver additional returns for investors this included managing further investment in three projects for its public sector counterparties.
These included: 12m of works for Tower Hamlets Schools which are expected to commence in Q2 2010 and includes additional construction works at four schools sites: 25m of additional works for Orange Hospital in New South Wales which commenced construction in 2009 and includes extensive remodelling of the existing facilities along with a further 6000m2 of new building works: and 18 Dec-09 Return Distribution Investments Change in FX Curve Change in Project Risk Premium Change in Risk Free Rates Dec-08 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued 3m investment in Abingdon police station in the U. K. for the construction of an additional police cell block which will be completed in January 2011.
These variations reflect successful partnerships with our public sector clients.
These, and future variations provide opportunities to grow revenues and will be reflected in the Directors valuation upon completion.
Acquisitions During the period the Company acquired additional stakes in two projects the Brescia Hospital project in Italy and the Diabolo Rail project in Belgium.
Both of these opportunities were acquired at projected return levels ahead of the original projected rate of return and reflected the vendors needs for liquidity.
INPP was well placed to capitalise on these circumstances and increase the Companys interests in these attractive projects.
We expect the Company to continue to review further attractive investment opportunities with respect to projects meeting the Companys investment policy in 2010 and beyond.
During 2009, the German rail company in which the Company has a 49% investment, BeNEX, was awarded two new rail operating concessions City Railway Berlin and North Net.
BeNEX was established in 2007 and since that time has grown to become one of the four largest rail operators in Germany.
Valuation and Net Asset Valuation Calculation The Administrator Heritage International Fund Managers Limited calculates the Net Asset Value NAV of an Ordinary Share with the assistance of AFML, and produces fair market valuations of the Groups investments on a six-monthly basis as at 30 June and 31 December.
The valuation methodology used is based on discounted cash flow methodology and utilises the discount rates set out below, with the exception of the Companys investment in the RiverCity Motorway project which is valued at mark to market as it is the Companys only listed investment.
Over the 12 month period ending 31 December 2009 the Companys Net Asset Value decreased by 3.1 pence per share to 112.1 pence per share.
There was a 69 basis point increase in risk-free rates during this period.
The Companys portfolio was valued at 420 million at 31 December 2009 2008 - 432m.
Valuation Change 465.0 455.0 445.0 435.0 m 425.0 26.5 415.0 3.5 4.6 26.3 1.0 405.0 20.5 431.8 420.2 395.0 385.0 375.0 19 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued The major determinants of the discount rate utilised in establishing a present value for the Companys assets includes the risk free rate derived from the relevant government bond applicable in the geography in which each asset is located as at the valuation date and the risk premium over the risk free rate deemed applicable to the asset in question.
Typically this risk premium will reduce over the life of any asset as an asset matures, its operating performance becomes more established, and the risks associated with its future cash flows decrease.
This is particularly the case where assets move from being in construction to becoming operational.
This risk premium is based on the advice of the Investment Advisor, market knowledge, advice from the Companys external advisors and is consistent with information in the public domain from comparable transactions.
Over the period the weighted average discount rate applicable across the portfolio increased by 68b.
The discount rates used for valuing each of the underlying assets in the Companys portfolio range from 6.42% to 15.33%.
Valuation Methodology 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Movement Dec - Dec NAV per share 112.1 115.20 -3.1 pence per share Weighted Average Discount Rate 8.63% 7.95% 68 b. p. Weighted Average Risk-Free Rate 4.68% 3.99% 69 b. p. Weighted Average Project Premium 3.96% 3.96% No change Discount Rate Range 6.42% - 15.33% 5.93% - 11.43% 49 b. p. - 390 b. p. Despite the movement in macro economic factors during the period, there were no significant changes to the Companys future expected cash flows.
Future net operating cashflows remain as forecast and are projected to cover the Companys forecast future distributions until 2034.
Gearing The outstanding balance on the Companys corporate debt facility was repaid in entirety from the proceeds of the equity capital raising in February 2010 and the Company now has a zero debt balance at the Group level.
At the assetlevel, the Company seeks to secure long-term debt matched where possible to the concession life of an asset at the time of acquisition.
Currently, the weighted average concession life remaining in the portfolio is 24 years, compared to a weighted average debt tenure of 23 years.
As a result, less than 1% of total debt is required to be refinanced over the next 31 years, ensuring strong protection from any future interest rate movements.
20 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Distributions The continued performance of the portfolio has allowed the Directors to increase the target distribution for 2010.
The target distribution for 2010 is 5.7 pence per share, an increase of close to 3% on 2009, and is again expected to be entirely covered by operating cash flow.
21 International Public Partnerships Limited Investment Advisors Report continued Inflation Protection Movements in inflation result in changes to revenue due to the inflation linkage inherent in most of INPPs concessions.
At 31 December 2009, 72% of total revenue was inflation linked, however payments to facilities management providers and a portion of the asset-level debt have similar arrangements.
INPP has assumed a long-term inflation forecast for the purposes of establishing a fair market valuation of 2.5% 2008:2.5%.
This is in line with the Bank of Englands long term inflation target.
Outlook As outlined in the Chairmans Report, the combination of the recent capital raising and the state of the market puts the Company in a good position to acquire new investments that should enhance investor returns.
The first of these, an investment in the South East Resource Centre in Hackney, London was completed in February 2010 and the Company expects to make further investments during the course of the year.
There are at least nine further projects with an estimated total development value in excess of 180m being developed within the Amber Infrastructure Group.
The Company enjoys a contractual right to invest in projects developed by Amber and which it disposes of.
The Company is expected to have the opportunity to invest in a number of these during the course of 2010.
If such investments are made, it is anticipated that they will increase the diversification of the Companys portfolio both in terms of sector and geographical exposure and should also enhance the overall investment return projected to investors.
The Investment Advisor also continues to receive invitations to review high quality opportunities that have been developed by third parties.
The financial events of the last 12 months have motivated some owners of assets of the sort in which the Company invests, to seek to sell at prices that appear attractive compared to historic pricing in the sector.
The Investment Advisor believes that the Company is extremely well placed to take advantage of such opportunities where they meet the Companys investment criteria.
Given the solid performance of the Companys existing portfolio and the investment opportunities we see before us, we continue to believe 2010 is likely to be another successful year for the Company.
Amber Fund Management Limited 7 April 2010 22
