International Public Partnerships Limited Summary International Public Partnerships invests in social infrastructure projects such as Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI projects.
The portfolio consists of 50 projects in the U. K. Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Belgium, Italy and Ireland.
Examples include schools, hospitals, courthouses, police stations, transport infrastructure and rolling stock.
International Public Partnerships is advised by Amber Fund Management Limited, a specialist infrastructure advisor and manager whose 48 staff are dedicated to advising, managing, investing in and developing infrastructure projects and investments.
The Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2006 with a market capitalisation of 300m.
In April 2008, the Company raised a further 84m via a C-share capital listing and in January 2010 the Company completed a further capital raising of 89m by way of a placement and open offer.
Overview Shareholders funds 324.8 million at 31 December 2009 Market Capitalisation 428m at 31 December 2009 Shares on Issue 374.7 million at 31 December 2009 Index Inclusion FTSE AllShare, FTSE 250 Objective The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with long-term distributions at levels that are attractive and sustainable arising from public infrastructure investments.
The Directors also believe that continued capital growth can be achieved from further investment in public infrastructure assets.
The Directors believe that investments in public infrastructure are likely, to a material extent, to be uncorrelated in their investment performance when compared to certain other investment classes.
Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited.
Amber Infrastructure has a global investment and advisory remit and AFML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber Fund Management Limited st 1 Floor, Two London Bridge, London, SE1 9RA Capital Structure The Company has a capital structure comprising of Ordinary Shares only, although the Companys articles of association include provision for the creation of an additional class of shares.
