Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
IMPaIRMEnT TESTInG OF GOODWILL anD TRaDEMaRKS WITh InDEFInITE LIvES Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated by senior management to seven individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as follows: Red Devil: Orchid: Tango: Robinsons: Britvic Soft Drinks business: Water Business: and Britvic Ireland.
Carrying amount of goodwill Britvic Red Devil Orchid Tango Robinsons BSD Water Ireland Total m m m m m m m m At 27 September 2009 5.1 12.4 8.9 38.6 7.
8 1.7 66.9 141.4 The Britvic Ireland goodwill is valued in euros and translated at the reporting date.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives As part of the fair value exercise regarding the acquisition of Britvic Ireland, certain trademarks with indefinite lives were recognised.
These trademarks have been allocated by senior management to six individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as follows: Britvic: Cidona: Mi-Wadi: Ballygowan: Club: and TK.
Carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite lives Britvic Cidona Mi-Wadi Ballygowan Club TK m m m m m m At 27 September 2009 10.8 8.7 9.4 28.1 15.6 0.6 At 28 September 2008 9.3 7.
5 8.1 24.2 13.4 0.5 The trademarks are valued in euros and translated at the reporting date.
The movement in the carrying amount from the prior year relates to translation movements.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill and intangible assets allocated to the cash-generating units detailed above has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
To calculate this, 20 year cash flow projections are based on financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the board of directors.
A 20 year cash flow period has been used to reflect the considered longevity of the cash-generating units.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to pre-tax cash flow projections for the cash-generating units associated with the goodwill excluding Britvic Ireland is 11% 2008: 11% and for the Britvic Ireland goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland is 9% 2008: 9%.
Cash flows beyond the one year period are extrapolated based on forecast growth rates in line with senior management expectations of growth.
No growth in real terms is assumed beyond five years.
Senior management expectations are formed in line with historical performance and experience as well as available external market data.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculation The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill.
Growth rates reflect senior management expectations of volume growth based on historical growth, current strategy and expected market trends.
Discount rates reflect senior managements estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital.
The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Marginal contribution being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by senior management.
Key assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to advertising and promotional spend.
This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead inflation the basis used to determine the value assigned to inflation is forecast consumer price indices of 3.0% 2008: 2.5%.
