Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
ExCEPTIOnaL ITEMS 2009 2008 Note m m Cost of incentive schemes directly associated with the flotation a 0.8 2.8 Restructuring costs b 16.6 11.6 Costs in relation to the purchase of Britvic Ireland c 0.5 2.1 Onerous leases d 2.4 Returnable bottle line closure and associated costs e 0.7 IT equipment impairment f 1.1 20.3 18.3 a Cost of incentive schemes directly associated with the flotation include all-employee share schemes and management incentives.
The cost relates to a transitional award granted to members of both the senior leadership team and senior management team shortly after flotation, the purpose of which was to compensate these individuals for the loss of existing long-term incentive bonuses which were discontinued upon flotation.
b Restructuring costs includes the costs of major restructuring programmes undertaken.
In the current year these are principally: Redundancy costs arising in both the GB and Ireland segments: Other costs associated with delivering the synergies within the Ireland segment: and Impairments of property, plant and equipment relating to the closure of three sites in the Britvic Ireland business.
c Costs in relation to the purchase of Britvic Ireland relate to the costs incurred in acquiring the business which cannot be included in the cost of the business combination and therefore cannot be capitalised.
In the current year costs relate to professional fees incurred in respect of establishing new pension schemes in the Britvic Ireland business.
The 2008 number principally relates to compensation paid to a distributor formerly used in Ireland prior to the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
d The onerous leases relate to two sites within the business where future lease commitments have been accrued for.
These are the closure of depot space as a result of the project to deliver the synergies in the Ireland segment and the rationalisation of office space in the GB segment.
e Returnable bottle line closure and associated costs in the prior year related primarily to a write-down of inventories for returnable glass bottle stocks which became redundant due to the move to non-returnable bottles in the GB segment.
f The IT equipment impairment in the prior year related to the write down of servers which have now been replaced to accommodate increased business requirements following the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
Details of the tax implications of exceptional items are given in note 10a.
All impairments have been calculated based on fair value less costs to sell, where the fair value is determined by reference to an active market.
OPERaTInG PROFIT This is stated after charging: 2009 2008 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 450.9 426.1 Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 2.6 2.6 Research and development expenditure written off 1.5 2.0 Net foreign currency differences 3.4 0.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.1 35.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.6 7.
2 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 16.3 15.7 This excludes the write-down of returnable bottle stocks included in note 5.
7. aUDITORS REMUnERaTIOn 2009 2008 m m Auditors remuneration audit of the group financial statements 0.3 0.2 Other fees to auditors Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 62 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009
