Directors Report continued Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 24 November 2009, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 2.58% of the issued share capital of the company.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 28.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special Resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2010 AGM.
FInanCIaL RISK ManaGEMEnT It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The specific policies for managing each of the groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the Treasury Management section of the Business Review on page 24.
POST BaLanCE ShEET EvEnT Details are set out in Note 34 of the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS STaTEMEnT aS TO DISCLOSURE OF InFORMaTIOn TO aUDITORS So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
GOInG COnCERn In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have considered both the business activities and principal risks and uncertainties as set out in the Overview and Business Review on pages 1 to 29.
In addition, the directors have considered the following factors: the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
Based on the groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the group continues to apply the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
aUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the board John Price Company Secretary 24 November 2009 38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009
