nOteS tO tHe cOmPAny finAnciAl StAtementS 1.
PaREnT UnDERTaKInG The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
They have been drawn up to comply with applicable accounting standards in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These accounts present information about the company as an individual undertaking, under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and not about its group.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual profit and loss account and related notes.
The company is exempt from the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard No.
2. aCCOUnTInG POLICIES Investments The company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provisions made for impairment.
In respect of FRS 20 Share-based payment, the company records an increase in its investment in subsidiaries to reflect the share-based compensation expense recorded by its subsidiaries.
This reflects current best practice following the issue of UITF 44.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Finance costs arising from the outstanding loan balance and finance charges are charged to the profit and loss account using an effective interest rate method.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the companys right to receive payment is established.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
Taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the profit and loss account.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedging instruments is as follows: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the profit and loss account.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the profit and loss account.
