InTanGIBLE aSSETS Franchise Trademarks rights Customer lists Software costs Goodwill Total m m m m m m Cost as at 30 September 2007, net of accumulated amortisation 55.6 20.7 12.8 23.2 133.8 246.1 Exchange differences 7.
Instead it is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
These reviews have been and will continue to be carried out at each reporting date or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment.
Trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists These are the intangible assets recognised as a result of the acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
They are valued in euros and translated at the reporting date.
Trademarks represent those trade names acquired which the group plans to maintain.
All trademarks have been allocated an indefinite life by management with the exception of a minor brand that is amortised over five years net carrying value of 0.1m.
A list of the trademarks acquired is shown in note 15.
It is expected, and in line with existing well-established trademarks within the group, that the trademarks with indefinite lives will be held and supported for an indefinite period of time and are expected to generate economic benefits for an indefinite period of time.
The group is committed to supporting its trademarks by investing in significant consumer marketing promotional spend.
Franchise rights represent the franchise agreements acquired which provide the long-term right to distribute certain soft drinks.
These agreements have been allocated a 35 year useful economic life.
As at 27 September 2009 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 33 years.
The franchise agreement itself has a contract life less than the useful economic life.
The useful economic life has been determined on the basis that the renewal of the contract is highly probable.
Customer lists represent those customer relationships acquired which are valued in respect of the grocery and wholesale businesses.
These customer lists have been allocated useful economic lives of between 10 and 20 years.
At 27 September 2009 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of between 8 and 18 years.
Software costs Software is capitalised at cost.
These intangible assets have been assessed as having finite lives and are amortised using the straight-line method over a period of 3 to 7 years.
These assets are tested for impairment where an indicator of impairment arises.
As at 27 September 2009 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of up to 7 years.
